ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us begin the agenda, with the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 695 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Determines the end of use of animals in circuses ( NAP ), 701 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the protection of animals used in circuses ( PCP ), 703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Bans the use of wild animals in circuses and establishes measures to support the circus arts ( BE), 705 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the prohibition on the use of wild animals in circuses by amending Decree-Law No 255 / 2009 of 24 September ( PS ) and 706 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On animals in circus ( The Greens ). For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is the shortest day of the year and, consequently, the day with the least light time in the year. This is how animals live every day in circuses, in excessive confinement. in the circus, the animals spend most of their day in prison, only 1 % to 9 % of their time is spent either in training or in the show. This type of inhuman confinement is at the origin of stereotypes, behavioral disorders that reveal anxiety, such as repeated circular or tilting movements, being more frequent this happens in tigers, lions or elephants. Scientific evidence shows that acts of performance in the presence of spectators cause severe stress to animals. Stress is caused by restriction of movements, artificial light, exposure to high and aversive sound volume or inadequate temperature for animals. with regard to training, it strongly compromises the welfare of animals, since training methods include severe physical and emotional punishments to use fear for the subalternization of the animal. Petting an animal is a process that involves changing its behavior, but not its genetic composition. in this process, the animals are obliged to submit themselves and to subjugate themselves. Animals in circuses are mere shadows of what they are in nature, they are puppets to whom all dignity has been removed, even for those animals already reproduced in captivity, because the truth is that these animals created in circuses are identical to their wild offspring. circus shows have a counterproductive impact on the perception of spectators, especially in children, who, instead of knowing animals in a natural way, are taught with the exponent of the anthropocentric model: supremacy, dominance and repression of the human species over the others. All this for entertainment, and all this is so futile, so hollow and so anachronistic! What an evolved society should pass on to children is that the intelligence that distinguishes the human being from the other species should not serve to subjugate them but to protect them. What we have to tell our children is that we have to transform the predator's attitude towards the gardener. To deprive wild animals of freedom is something intrinsically cruel. Greater cages, better regulation and more supervision do not resolve. It is clearly impossible for circuses to ensure adequate physiological, mental and social requirements for animals, seriously impairing their well-being. The exploitation of wild animals in circuses reflects an outdated view of animals. In November, Ireland became the twentieth country in the European Union to ban the use of wild animals in the circuses. Yesterday afternoon, Scotland became the latest country to do so. The NAP proposes that Portugal join these countries, providing for a moratorium, on the one hand, so that circuses can adapt to a reality without animals and on the other, so that there is time for the animals to be redirected to reserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u3	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u4	We also propose that the tractors and coaches of circuses which give animals free of charge to the State shall be entitled, for a period of five years, to support for the purpose of professional conversion. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that in the matter of circuses, the NAP has much more than an agenda, has a plan and a dream for which it will work and which is very clear: until all cages are empty. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brought to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal that strengthens the protection of animals, in particular with regard to their detention and use in circuses, which aims to evolve in order not to use animals in circus shows, gradually and without impositions. It is important to remember that the CFP was the first party in the Assembly of the Republic to present a bill of this nature and to this end. We understand that the most effective way to achieve this objective is not through immediacy or prohibitions, but through a pedagogical intervention, through the creation of a national programme to stimulate and promote the conversion of circus shows, so that circuses can voluntarily stop using animals in exhibitions and gradually bet on other arts. We do not ignore that there are still communities in our country whose income results from circus activity. We therefore propose that a national voluntary delivery programme be set up for animals used in circuses. We propose that the State create a line of financial incentives for the conversion of circus shows, including also professional conversion, with the support of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, so that circus workers can develop their activity in other circus arts. We propose that the State should be responsible for the well-being of these animals, in particular by opening animal shelters, taking into account the characteristics and needs of each species, and that it should ensure that such animals should be accommodated in appropriate centres. We propose that the human and technical resources of the competent authorities be strengthened to ensure the monitoring and enforcement of animal protection legislation, ensuring the collection and treatment of animals, as well as respect for their biological characteristics and needs. We also propose the creation of a national register of circus animals and the development of awareness-raising actions with the circuses to comply with animal protection standards. With the amendment of the legislation, in particular preventing the purchase and reproduction of wild animals by circuses, the trend is to reduce the number of wild animals used in circus shows and to reduce the number of circuses with animals. We follow the concerns of all those who believe it is necessary to continue to intervene in the defense and protection of animal welfare. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the protection and protection of animal welfare have guided the intervention of the CFP. We believe it is essential to establish a harmonious and respectful relationship between living beings and non-human animals. As we have stated in our initiative, the CFP proposes a new path to the Portuguese circus which will certainly lead to an increase in the search for the circus without animals, without it happening in a forced manner but, yes, natural and gradual and with the most absolute respect, either by the circus activity or by the animal welfare. This is the contribution of the CFP to continue to follow the path of strengthening animal welfare, and we have already expressed our full willingness and commitment to deepen this discussion in the field of expertise. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have recently had developments in order to ensure the welfare and rights of animals. Fruit of a great conscience and social mobilization, this is also an increasing discussion in public opinion. It is therefore very important that we have finally recognized animals as conscious beings, who suffer physically and psychologically when conditioned to ill-treatment or behaviors and treatments that do not suit their nature. It was in this context that we recently adopted Law No 8 / 2017, in which the animals began to see the right to be protected. The Left Block has always been in the front line for the guarantee of animal welfare and is fighting for this and other laws that correspond to the spirit of this inscription. And it was also in this sense that at the beginning of 2009 we presented a draft resolution and, at the end of that year, a bill, which aimed to ban the use of wild animals in circuses. Also that year, it ended by adopting a law that gradually led to the absence of wild animals in these same shows. But eight years ago — even though several countries have already banned the exploitation of wild animals, a trend which Poland started 20 years ago, and there are several European studies and directives for animal welfare to give such indications — in Portugal, there is still a total of 1136 animals in these conditions, between wild and domestic, according to the Directorate-General for Veterinary Food. These international studies confirm the suffering and stress that wild animals live because they are confined to small cages for a large part of the day, from which they only come to be subjected to intensive and extremely aggressive training, to condition their behavior or to be forced to act and to contact very closely with human beings—that is when they are not in itinerance, because the animals are also leapbanks. Just imagine what the life of an elephant is behind the curtain of the tent and on the nomad path of the circus that jumps from city to city. These animals do not have the genetic evolution needed to have domesticated behaviors and are obliged to condition their nature deeply, only to meet the expectations of humans. The circus art is appreciated for generations and for generations. Judiciaryism and human numbers are alarmed by the skill and rigour of each stage. There have also recently been developments in new numbers and several traditional circuses have already stopped performing with animals. Some municipalities also managed to ensure that circuses with animals do not use them for shows in these cities. The circus therefore deserves to be an art of the consensual spectacle and which continues to enchant, without the shadow of the inhuman conditioning of the use of animals. This project is aimed at prohibiting animal exploitation and ensuring that the circus stays, with its magic, and has support as art that is. This is also a legislative amendment that guarantees better public health conditions, gives clear pedagogical signs in the sense of conservation of species and animal respect and ensures that this transition is made respecting the natural need for adaptation of circuses and the redirection of animals to habitats that match their nature. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Rosa Maria Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group presents Bill No. 705 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), which affects exclusively the prohibition of the use of wild animals in circuses, and does so recognizing that Portuguese society is increasingly concerned with the welfare of animals and is increasingly demanding with regard to circus animals, either by the wild or exotic nature of various species still currently detained by circuses, or by the conditions of accommodation, training and display that may affect the health of these living beings. It also does so by recognizing that the European Union itself has come, through legal instruments, to draw up a detailed regulatory framework on the use of animals in circuses and that even the Portuguese legal system has precedents, in particular Decree-Law No 255/2009, which already prohibits the acquisition of new wild animals for use in circus shows. We are aware that there are already a few tens of countries in the world, several of them European partners, which strongly prohibit or restrict the presence of animals in circus activities. We want to make it clear that this is a step that the PS Parliamentary Group will be willing to take, but before that there has to be an extended debate in Portuguese society. with regard to housing conditions, training and use of these wild animals, it is now difficult to meet the health or safety requirements, and we consider it undesirable to keep wild species captive. However, we are aware that we will have to safeguard and guard the expectations of the tractors and the circus sector, not promoting any sudden change. Our project, as opposed to the other bills submitted by other political forces, foresees and stimulates the obligation of a transitional period allowing their adaptation to the new legal framework. This period will allow some protection of the professional life of those who today are treatmentrs of wild animals in circuses, as well as will allow time for the relocation of old wild animals to be done with dignity and care, taking into account animal welfare. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens present Bill No 706 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) on animals in circuses. This is not so much a presentation but a re-presentation of a bill, given that in 2009 the Greens brought this matter precisely to the Assembly of the Republic, in order to make a reflection on the necessary amendment to the law on the presence of animals in the circus. What the Greens proposed in 2009 was precisely that the ban on animals in the circus should be laid down by law. At the time, however, our bill was plummeted. In addition to the re-presentation, I wanted to say, in this regard, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in our view, this discussion here in the Assembly of the Republic would make more sense if it had been made together with a petition, that we all have knowledge and that it is being prepared with debate in civil society. We believe that, given the commitment of the citizens and the way they are mobilising, we could have waited another month or two, in the sense that this discussion could have been done with this mobilization of citizens. We're sorry that didn't happen. In any event, having this discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, the Greens considered joining their bill in order to also contribute to this legislative process. What the Greens are proposing in particular with this re-presentation of their bill is that no animals are used in circuses within two years—that is the deadline we set. Therefore, we set a time limit for an adaptation of circus promoters to the absence of animals, but also for a safeguard of the re-housing of such animals after their delivery. in this sense, we believe that there is, in fact, a period of adaptation here that is necessary to ensure. I would like to say from now on that we are willing, as a specialist, to discuss whether this deadline is short or not, or whether there is a need to adjust this period to these two objectives which I have mentioned here, i.e. the adaptation of circus promoters and the guarantee of animal resettlement. On the other hand, we are also willing to discuss whether we are covering all animals or only wild animals in the show. This is a discussion that we believe must be made. The Greens include all animals in their bill. In any case, The Greens have always pointed out that their projects are starting points for discussion. Therefore, in our specialty, we should have that same discussion. It is true that other countries already have specific legislation on this matter, but it is also true that most of them are restricted to wild animals, which, let us say, do not have the characteristic of domestication, are not domesticable. Therefore, the great question that arises from this beginning, with regard to the presence of these animals in the circus, has to do with the conditions in which they are kept and how they are treated, because what is really important to wild animals learn in these conditions is that, if they disobey, they will be punished violently. It is therefore a question of animal welfare which must be safeguarded here. We also say that the circus does not lose anything — it does not lose its survival, its survival or its assistance — because it does not have numbers with these animals. in this sense, we believe that circuses are not affected by this fact. What is more, I want to point out here that the Greens have a great deal of respect for circus art.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u13	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u14	I'm done now, Mr. President. In fact, we believe that the circus is a spectacle that deserves effective support, in terms of what it represents in traditional terms and in terms of the public of all age groups and that can lead to its assistance in terms of performance. Mr President, this is the sense and predisposition of the Greens in relation to this legislative initiative. [[Congrats from The Greens of PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u15	For an intervention, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills under discussion today are of the greatest importance to the PSD Parliamentary Group. The PSD recognizes the importance of animal rights, enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Animal Rights, proclaimed by UNESCO in 1978, and for which we have already given abundant evidence in the previous legislation. The PSD accompanies the need for a paradigm shift with regard to circus shows, particularly in the replacement of animals by art, a global and irreversible trend. Portugal, in 2009, took an important step in this direction through legislation prohibiting the acquisition of new animals by the promoters of circus activities. In addition to preventing the purchase of new specimens, the diploma also prevents the reproduction of specimens that the circus companies already have. As a result of the legislation in force: the maintenance and use of large symmes — chimpanzees, oranges, gorillas — in circuses, shows and numbers with animals is immediately prohibited, such as very serious and punishable environmental counter-ordination with fines practised by a collective person in the event of negligence and in the event of a breach; and circuses legally holding animals of wild species, whose detention is prohibited by the existing portarium, are obliged to register them at the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity (CNB ) and are also obliged to prevent them from reproducing, in addition to being prohibited from acquiring new animals of these species. The PSD considers it to be the principle of ending the use of animals in circuses in Portugal. And the truth is, the animals have gradually disappeared in circus shows with the end of life of each of them. Consider the example of Funchal, who in 2014 formally decreed the prohibition of the use of animals in the circus. Also the cities of Lisbon, Cascais, Évora and Faro follow the recommendations of their municipal assemblies in this regard. This, however, without existing legislation, needs to be amended. What we consider to be urgent is to strengthen the means necessary for the competent authorities to be able, in an effective and rigorous manner, to monitor the implementation of the legislation. Instead of complying with the law, the left-wing parties now want to make a new one, to the shiver of the behavior assumed with the sector. Don't we have any more laws? We do not disappoint its recipients, creating changes that are penalizing for an economic sector. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the state must be a good person! The PSD defends the correct application of the law in force, always with a view to promoting animal welfare. In our view, this is a non-question. Buy the lei! [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Deputies Rosa Maria Albernaz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing different projects here today but all related to the presence of animals in the circus and similar activities. The PAN and the Greens intend to end with the presence of all animals in the circuses, the Left Block and the Socialist Party only intend to end with the use of wild animals in circuses and the CFP wants their government, the Government supporting and viable, to comply with the law. There are, however, a number of questions which I would like to warn you about. Ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, there is a differentiation between the various diplomas in what are the transition periods, ranging from two years, in the case of the NAP and the Greens, to three years, in the case of the Left Block, and to four years, in the case of the PS. Then, all bills also deal with the need to requalify the tractors, but do not specify, nor present, alternative proposals for these professionals. Some of the projects propose rules that already exist, such as the identification of animals, which the current law already provides, by forcing the use of microchip. They also propose projects that animals are relocated, some of which speak in reserves or aquariums. Now, what you need to ask is which reservations are made by the honourable Members. Members thinking when they propose that the animals be relocated there, where there are these reserves or where they intend to create them. It will be a natural park, as the Greens propose? We are also asking ourselves, Mrs. Members, if they believe that an animal that is born and created in captivity, even if it is of a wild species, has the survival instincts necessary to resist when placed in the natural habitat of its species. They also provide for such projects that animals may be sent to reservations in other countries. This is the case with the PCP and PAN projects, and the latter, despite omission, refers to the case of international non-governmental organizations. That is why this question must be asked: how are you doing? Do Members ensure, with these proposals, that the countries to which animals may be sent comply with the rules of animal welfare that exist in Portugal and the European Union? The NAP also intends that, even during the transitional period, during which shows with animals would be allowed, this possibility should be closed when viewers are children and young people, which in practice cancels the transitional period, because the circus show is made mainly for children and young people. It is also important to say that if these projects are approved, it is not only the use of animals in the circus that is concerned but also, for example, the end of their display in the « zoomarines ». In conclusion, I would like to say that existing legislation, which is 2009, already determines the end of the use of wild animals in circuses in time, since it prevents the purchase of new copies and reproduction of existing animals, which means that they cannot be replaced when they end their life. You may the gentlemen. Members say that supervision does not exist or is inadequate. Several bills, such as those of the Left Block, the PAN or the Greens, refer to this as a real problem and that, therefore, the ban is the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u19	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u20	I'm done now, Mr. President. But if so, what should they do, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, it is to require your Government, the Government that supports, greater supervision and that it abides by the law. That is enough, because all of this is already provided for in the existing law. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u21	For a second speech, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to leave two very brief notes. One first, which we have already mentioned in our initial speech, is our willingness to, in the field of specialty, be able to deepen many of the issues that have been raised here in relation to the protection of animals that are used in circuses. On the responsibility of the State to ensure the well-being of these animals, which we, the CFP, consider to be a priority for this discussion is that they can be collected, treated and welcomed in the most appropriate way, taking into account the specificities and characteristics of each of the animals. This is, in particular, the most relevant aspect of some of the issues that have been raised here. Another aspect that matters to us in our discussion and which also goes to the meeting of a proposal which the CFP here brings, in particular the need to exist in our country shelters for these animals, is that we are faced with the reality of the animals seized by the Portuguese authorities after being kept in custody of their owners in the circuses, because there is no place to place them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u23	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that this is something we must also bear in mind in our discussion on this matter. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u25	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, speaking in part of the matter itself, Mr Diogo León has the floor. [[General laughter.]] [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President, for recognizing my interest in this matter. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would not like to leave here to acknowledge that it was a Government of the Socialist Party that, in 2009, produced pioneering legislation on circus animals in Portugal, and that that same legislation already defined as relevant parameters such as animal welfare and already presumed that the same well-being was hardly compatible with the itinerance of circus shows, in addition to explicitly recognizing the inadequate adaptation to captivity of wild or exotic species and defining a course of natural disappearance of wild animals in circuses, since it established the prohibition of the acquisition, reproduction or importation of new specimens. What the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes here today is a coherent step with what it has defended in the past. It is a concrete development, which goes towards a gradual change in mentality, the same mentality that it conceived that animal welfare is today a social value with greater civic and political representativeness, as the recent approval in this Parliament of the Legal Statute of Animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u28	We therefore consider it appropriate to prohibit the use of wild and exotic animals in circuses, but not without cautioning a transitional period, which can necessarily be discussed in the field of specialty, so that professionals and promoters of this activity better achieve appropriate and adapt the performances that provide for a new reality. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u29	There are no more entries for interventions in the context of discussion of the projects of lein.o 695, 701, 703, 705 and 706 / XIII ( 3. a ), we move to the second point of the order of business, which consists of the general discussion of draft law No 708 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No. 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), second amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2003, of 22 August ( Law of the Political Parties ), seventh amendment to Law No. 19 / 2003, of 20 June ( Law of the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), and first amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2005, of 10 January ( Law of the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing) ( PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ). On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José Silvano has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendments to these laws result in an imperative need to overcome doubts about constitutionality, give greater efficiency and effectiveness to monitor the accounts of political parties and electoral campaigns and reduce delays in the approval and publication of these accounts. Thus, it was a preparatory working group, with all parliamentary groups and under great consensus, the possible consensus, for these issues to be decided. The most important change is that the entity responsible for the evaluation and approval of the accounts should not be the same in order to avoid the issue of unconstitutionality. At present, it is the same entity that applies fines, on the one hand, and appreciates the resources, on the other hand, which the law foresees as unconstitutionality. What we expect from this initiative is that it is assigned to the Political Accounts and Financing Entity (ECFP) the competence to investigate the irregularities and also the illegalities of the accounts, as well as to apply their fines, and that there is a possibility of recourse, with suspensive effect, to the Constitutional Court, which will then decide, in plenary. For us, this is the big change that this initiative introduces, because it clarifys the doubts of constitutionality, and the others are small amendments, which are important in this context because they help speed up its approval and also to make notifications faster. Notifications must be cumulative, with electronic mail communications, on the one hand, and also by registered mail. Only in this way do they become more effective, because currently some of them are taking more than one year, which significantly delays the approval of accounts. The deadlines that exist are unrealistic and do not justice to the delays they have at the moment; we move them to one year, because we mean that it is not unrealistic that important decisions are taken and that entities that do not respect them are blamed. Currently, there are accounts to be approved for more than three years. We therefore think that, with these amendments, we have a more effective, more efficient law, without unconstitutionalities, capable of responding to parties and electoral campaigns. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u31	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About a year ago, the Constitutional Court took the urge to draw Parliament's attention to serious doubts of unconstitutionality regarding the regime in force. Then, as Mr Silvano underlined, a working group was set up which, in a very constructive way and in a very productive interinstitutional dialogue, prepared the solutions to overcome these doubts, in accordance with what is yet to be said. The working group was coordinated by Mr José Silvano, under conditions that allowed this climate of broad consensus to have the positive result that is now being shown. Therefore, at this stage of debate, I do not want to emphasise anything other than my full adherence to the terms of Mr Silvano's speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u33	Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block takes very seriously the entire process of assessing and monitoring the financing of parties and electoral campaigns. We consider it essential that the law contribute to achieving the greatest rigor and the greatest requirement for the evaluation and monitoring of party accounts and electoral campaigns. We believe that it is in this sense that the legislative amendments we are considering, in the sense of the greatest rigor and the greatest requirement, because they first accept the constitutional principle, fundamental in our democracy, of the separation of powers. The body which assesses and monitors the accounts of parties and campaigns ceases to be the same as any irregularities. No less important, the right of appeal is possible in relation to decisions of the evaluator and supervisory authority, and this democratic right is fulfilled but also making it possible to contradict it, making it selective, transparent and effective. With these amendments, the Political Accounts and Financing Entity ceases to have only co-adjuvant technical functions and has its own powers to assess and monitor the accounts of parties and campaigns and, where it considers justified, in accordance with the law, to apply fines. thus, the procedure relating to the financing and control of the accounts of the parties and campaigns wins an appeal body of full jurisdiction and final decision, the Constitutional Court, after the announcement of the Public Prosecutor's Office. With these amendments, the system gains rigor, demand and transparency, in accordance with the democratic principles of separation of powers and the right of appeal to an entity other than it assesses and controls. The Left Block believes that, with these amendments, the result of the experience and joint evaluation with the entities involved in the process, new elements are introduced that give citizens more confidence in these matters, with which democracy is prestigious and the country wins. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u35	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The text which today is put to the vote and which introduces amendments to various legislative diplomas relating to the financing of parties and electoral campaigns and their supervision results from a consensualisation work carried out by a working group set up under 1. the Commission, corresponding to a worthy initiative of the Constitutional Court, which alerted this Assembly to serious malfunctions of the current legislation relating to the financing of parties and electoral campaigns, which could compromise their constitutionality, and which contributed with concrete proposals of legislative amendment that have been carefully assessed and have obtained a high degree of agreement and acceptance. Having said this, it is worth stressing at this time that the Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns Financing Act, approved in 2003 and will be maintained in its essential matrix, has and has the most vehement opposition from the PCP. This Law introduced absurd limitations to the freedom of political action of the parties and, by confusing supervision with interference, resulted in a pursuit of party activity, carried out by foolish, abusive action and the margin of the law by the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing. The worst application of bad legislation has ended by unanimous consideration of the need for its amendment and leading to broad consensus on the correction of some of its most serious, and even absurd, provisions. With the amendments now tabled, we will not have a good law. In addition, the solutions proposed by the Constitutional Court, whose basis we understand and subscribe, on behalf of a broad consensus that could be obtained, would not be our solutions, in particular with regard to the own competences that are assigned to the Entity of Accounts. however, the consensualization effort that has been made will produce positive results and the legislation will be significantly improved: it will be introduced, in accordance with the proposal of the Constitutional Court, a double degree of jurisdiction in the supervision and enforcement of sanctions that must take place, reasonable changes are introduced in the tax and accounting regime applicable to parties and campaigns, taking into account their specific nature, and conditions are created so that the Constitutional Court can finally regulate the assessment of the accounts of parties and campaigns, which has proved impractical due to the absurd aspects of legislation so far in force. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u37	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens also associated themselves with this legislative initiative, including being integrated and involved in the working group that was set up within the framework of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, precisely to seek a text as consensual as possible around the amendment to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns. Let me also highlight the way this working group has completed its work, in a very cordial and sensible way, and leave a word of appreciation to its coordinator, Mr José Silvano. As mentioned above, the central objective of the proposed amendment is to remove any doubts about constitutionality regarding procedures in the assessment of the accounts of political parties and electoral campaigns. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure that the entity responsible for the evaluation of the accounts is not the same entity as the one which judges any irregularities and, on the other hand, the need to ensure that the entity that decides is not the same entity applying the appeal, thus ensuring the double degree of jurisdiction. However, in the light of these two purposes, the text now proposed mainly relates to the allocation to the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing of the competence to investigate the irregularities or illegalities of the accounts of political parties and electoral campaigns, as well as the application of the respective fines, if they occur, but with the possibility, or faculty, of recourse to the plenary of the Constitutional Court, by assigning suspensive effects to this appeal. The amendments to the remaining diplomas stem solely from the need to adapt the articulate of this diploma to the amendments that are now proposed to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns, and that is why it is also necessary to make the respective amendments to the Law of the Organization, Function and Process of the Constitutional Court, the Law of Political Parties and the Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financings. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Greens understand that with this proposal, any doubts about the constitutionality of the current regime are removed and, by granting the appeal to the plenary of the Constitutional Court, we are guaranteeing a double degree of jurisdiction in this matter. The Greens therefore consider that, with this diploma, we will have a safer and more appropriate regime today. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u39	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns is fundamental to the political system and the need for transparency in this matter is fundamental to us. The supervision, in accordance with the law, was initially conferred on the Constitutional Court and then the Entity of Accounts was established in order to provide technical support to the Court. The law has been amended successively to improve and strengthen the requirements in terms of transparency of the accounts of the parties and the electoral campaigns and we are now taking a new step to resolve constitutional doubts, in order to transform the Accounts Entity into the competent body not only to monitor but also to apply the fines, moving the Constitutional Court to be an appeal body. The CDS has contributed to the project presented today and has the conviction that it has contributed significantly to its improvement, but, as is often the case in the works, the problem is in 'now' — now more is done and more is done. And in the 'now' there are two rules with which we are at odds. First, the Funding Act of the Parties and the Electoral Campaigns proposed the elimination of any limit to fund-raising by the parties. We believe that this calls into question the whole system that guarantees the transparency of accounts, which means that it allows parties to turn into fund-raising companies, slamming the door to activities that may be involved in the transparency of accounts. Secondly, we disagree with the amendment to the standard allowing the return of VAT (value added tax ), withdrawing the obligation of such support only to be possible in relation to the activity directly linked to politics, extending it to all party activities. However, the parties are exempt from VAT, which means that this amendment translates into an extension of a grant to the parties' activity, even if it has nothing to do with this political activity of the parties. for the reasons given, we voted against these two amendments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u41	With no further entries for this debate, we can move on to the next item on our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 136 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Objection to the allocation of a TUPEM license to the Galp / ENI consortium for the research drilling activity in area 233 designated by Santola in the Alentejo Basin ( Aljezur ) ( ASMAA, Algarve Surf and Marine Activities Association and others ), together with draft resolutions 1188 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the remaining hydrocarbon concessions in the territory and assess the quality and methods of extraction of imported gas ( BE and PAN ), 1197 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by suspension of research and exploration of hydrocarbons off Aljezur ( PCP ) and 1205 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Calls on the Government to stop the prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons (The Greens ). On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and petitioners who bring us this debate today and by explaining the general lines of the proposal presented by the Block on the Left and the PAN to the Plenary, which comes in line with another one previously presented, on the climate, to end the granting of national territory for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, based on this recommendation in four main points. First, that the extension of the contract of ENI and Galp in the Aljezur area is not authorised and that any hole is prevented there. This petition arises following the award of a holding in that concession, an act which had no consequence because it was manifestly illegal, but it is necessary to give this guarantee to the people that there will not be any other intention of exploitation in Aljezur. Secondly, let the Government complete all remaining concessions and do so without the allocation of indemnifications, which would be totally spurious and undue in this context. Thirdly, that until the end of the term of office the Government does not authorize any new concession. And we add a fourth important point, which concerns fracking, because recently the Minister of the Sea has signed a statement on the transformation of the Port of Sines into a preferential receptor for shale gas from the United States, and we know that much of this gas can originate in the exploration through the fracking method, the hydraulic fracture, which is the most polluting, with more devastating environmental consequences, and having in Portugal specific legislation that differentiates the treatment of fracking, in particular in terms of environmental impact assessment, our recommendation is that the sources and extractive methods of gas that are received in Sines be identified and that this study be profound and presented publicly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u43	For an intervention by the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank ASMAA and all 26 000 subscribers for submitting this petition. In Portugal, in full contradiction with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and against all data from the scientific community, we continue to promote the possibility of exploiting oil, and there is no economic, social or, at all, environmental justification for the government's serialism to the oil industry. But the government is not only: validating its position has been a majority of parties that perpetuate subjugation to a productive economic and ideological model, clearly outdated and exhausted. The NAP has already presented two proposals to ensure that there are no more explorations and farms in the country, but also twice this majority has led these proposals. in the Assembly of the Republic governs the economic mentality of the 19th century and paradoxically these parties defend that the progress of the country goes through the destruction of the environment. Today, with the Left Block, we propose that no oil contracts be authorised or extended in Portugal, and on the other hand we also ask that information be given to citizens of the composition and extractive methods of all the gas that reaches us through the Port of Sines. The Portuguese have the right to know whether or not the gas entering Portugal comes from non-conventional extraction methods of very high environmental impact, particularly by fracking.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u45	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u46	Yes, we are radical because we defend people and ecosystems above economic interests. Fundamentalists will be those who reject this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u47	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating about 4200 citizens who have signed the petition today, requesting the suspension of the process of exploration of oil and natural gas in the Algarve and the Alentejan coast. It is precisely in this sense that the draft resolution which the CFP brings to the debate today goes. A draft resolution recommending that the Government suspend the research activities of hydrocarbons off Aljezur until the conclusion, disclosure and public discussion of environmental impact assessments and impact assessments on other economic activities. We recall that one and a half years ago, in July 2016, the Assembly of the Republic approved another draft resolution of the CFP that recommended the Government to promote the conduct of these assessments, determining the risks resulting from the research and possible exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Algarve and the Alentejan coast. Although the Government is politically linked to the fulfilment of this resolution by the Assembly of the Republic, the fact is that to date no assessments promoted by the Government regarding the exploration of oil or natural gas off Aljezur are known. This circumstance did not, however, prevent the consortium holding the hydrocarbon exploration licence off Aljezur from announcing its intention to proceed with a research survey already in 2018. The CFP understands that up to the conclusion, disclosure and public discussion of environmental and impact impact assessments in other economic activities, hydrocarbon explorations should be suspended. It is these assessments that should sustain a broad public debate, with the participation of the populations, the autarchs, environmental associations and economic agents, which will allow for an informed and in-depth consideration of the advantages and disadvantages, the opportunity and conditions for the use of national, renewable and non-renewable energy resources. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u49	For an intervention on behalf of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution calling on the Government to stop the prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons. As you know, it is not the first time that the Greens present a project on this subject. Moreover, in this Parliament we have presented a number of legislative initiatives on research and oil exploration. We consider it to be absolutely convincing that the country has nothing to gain from research with a view to exploiting oil and natural gas on our territory, along our coast, and that this activity is even a real risk to our territory, to the populations and to our ecosystems. More: this question even goes against a goal that the country must take into account with great seriousness, which is the issue of the decarbonization and release of fossil fuels, in order to mitigate the effects of climate change also and, in this sense, this activity is an absolute contradiction with the national and global objective that we intend to achieve. in this legislation, after a strong social and parliamentary pressure, the granting of research and production of hydrocarbons, contracts signed with Portfuel and with the consortium Repsol / Partex, but the truth is that the country continues under the threat of concessions still in force. However, it was made public that the consortium ENI / Galp requested the National Fuel Market Entity to extend concessions that were assigned to it under the current research and prospection contract until the end of this year. The truth is that drilling actions cannot be carried out in any meteorological circumstances and spring is the most appropriate period for their implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u51	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u52	I will finish, Mr. President. in this sense, there was a request for extension by this consortium, and the third time they do so and the Greens consider that it should not be granted. This is precisely the recommendation that we make to the Government, in addition to calling for the Government to make every effort to stop the research and exploitation of oil in Portugal in the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u53	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u54	Finally, Mr President, in a sentence to end, The Greens greets all those who subscribe to the petition that is now under discussion and all those who have made the greatest efforts to stop this matter of research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u55	Mr José Carlos Barros has the floor to speak by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet and greet the petitioners, beginning by pointing out that, despite having entered the Assembly of the Republic about a year and a half ago, today's petition remains unexpected. We saw: in June 2016, this petition requested that no license be granted to the consortium ENI / GALP for the conduct of a search hole off Aljezur. However, until December a year ago, PS Algarve, in a statement, announced and congratulated Mr. Prime Minister, and I quote : « by the government's decision to terminate contracts for the exploration and exploitation of gas and oil ». It happens that less than a month later, in January of this year, the country was surprised by the licensing of this research drilling, in fact, without the government, now, having given itself to respond to the objections of persons and entities who participated in the public consultation process, 42 000. And all this at the same time that Mrs.Minister of the Sea in the United States last December presented offshore oil exploration as an investment opportunity in our country. And so it has been with the government and the PS to say one thing and to do another, with the parties of the current governmental majority to present recommendations to the government, but everything now without major attacks, perhaps because the license here under discussion concerns a 2007 contract and therefore signed by a Government of the Socialist Party. However, I recall that a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, adopted in May this year, following the initiative of the PSD, recommends that the Government draw up a Green Paper on the subject, whose development, in fact, we have no news. Also in order for less noise and clarification to be possible, in a debate involving the scientific community, and in the clear understanding that the process of transition to a green economy can no longer be a priority of environmental policies, all this hopefully in a stable political and administrative framework, without yielding or threatening. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u57	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr António Eusébio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the petitioners for the initiative and the concern they show about the possible impacts that a measure of this nature may have on a region with high dependence on tourism and the sea, on a territory with a very high biodiversity, in which more than 35% of the area is protected by conventions and legislation. in this sense, the Algarve is one of the national regions where tourism is also of greater economic relevance, the region that contributes most to the GDP from tourism. As we have stated in the previous draft resolutions that we have tabled, we believe that procedures should not be adopted that may be due to the value that tourism offers us and that we must do everything to preserve them. However, as we all know, the current government has already taken up this process, but, given the possible environmental risks and concerns raised, it has been fulfilling the bills approved by this House, and a substantial improvement has already been achieved. If, at first, there were five, now it's one, and probably it won't exist. If, on the one hand, the Government wants to safeguard the interests of the State in order to avoid procedures for contractual responsibilities involving compensation, on the other hand, the world faces climate change at an increasingly rapid pace, and in this sense we must make the necessary reforms to mitigate its effects. The energy capture model through hydrocarbons is increasingly moving away from the innovative and sustainable methodologies that have emerged over the last decades from renewable sources. South of the country has sufficient resources to promote this type of energy, including solar energy, wind energy, and this region can be an example of environmental sustainability. These are the options that have been considered a priority for this government and those that must continue to be it, with the implementation of new projects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u59	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and saying that, in fact, this is not the first time we have dealt with these matters, having a broad consensus on the question: "Should the country know what resources it has? ' — by the interventions and by what is written in the initiatives, it is almost consensual, with the exception of some fanatics, who think it is a matter of reading the country's resources. When we move on to the phase of research and exploration, then the doubts lie. I confess that I did not understand the position of the Socialist Party, which now licenses, now negotiates, now signs research contracts and prospecting, but then says: "Well, it is better not to do anything". Understand! I must congratulate both the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party, which, in this matter, are more or less coherent. Although they argue that we should know what resources we have, the Greens Ecological Party says that we should still be careful at the research stages. Research with clear intention of exploitation, then it is serious; if it is not with clear intention of exploitation, it may be acceptable. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] We understand that, yes, we must know, yes, we must strengthen the mechanisms of control and defense of research, yes, there must be environmental sustainability. Perhaps the State should strengthen its decision-making mechanisms and it should be studied, involving the scientific community, local authorities, populations and, of course, taking into account a balance between the interests in conflict, particularly if we are talking in the areas « Lavagante », « Santola » or « Gamba », where it is even more important that we take care of because the environmental impacts and the tourism industry are quite relevant. What we say is that, if necessary, we are available to strengthen mechanisms and if the State believes that it must, however, put first the commitments made in international terms for CO2 emissions, for green ecology, we will also agree. What we do not want is to be in this limbo where, yes, we should know if it exists and, if it exists, we should even exploit, but we do not say how we want it to be exploited or which entities should be involved in this exploitation and then, purely and simply, leave this holding aside. I say even more: this request for an extension of the ENI ( National Hydrocarbon Entity ) has exactly to do with the care that the company wants to have in relation to the environmental impacts of this holding. In fact, the Greens Ecological Party well identifies this issue when it says that this prospect was to be made in spring, but, as it was not possible, it is necessary to postpone this prospect in order to protect the environment. Still, they're against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u61	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u62	On this matter, we are clear: we want to know what the country has, we want to have all the mechanisms so that we can decide on whether or not to explore in a timely and informed manner. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u63	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the fourth item on the agenda, which is from the examination of petition No 281 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — They request the adoption of measures to defend the Portuguese footwear ( Paulo Miguel Correia Ferrero Marques dos Santos, and others) together with draft resolutions 1166 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by valuing the Portuguese footwear, by supporting the candidacy of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity and by valuing the profession of shoemaker ( The Greens), 1192 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards maintaining and valuing the Portuguese footwear ( PAN), 1196 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of Portuguese footwear and footwear ( PCP ), 1200 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the art of footwear and the Portuguese footwear ( BE) and 1208 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and enhance the Portuguese footwear ( PSD ). Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese footwear is an artistic expression, an element of Portugal's cultural heritage, traditional and distinctive, and very concretely Lisbon, although there are Portuguese footwear expressions throughout the country and also around the world, with presence on all continents, assuming also as an element of dissemination of our culture. An element that values the image of the country and gives the cities a unique beauty and luminosity, dignifying the public space, making it more attractive. But the Portuguese footwear also has environmental benefits, compared to other types of floor, by regulating the temperature and increasing the permeability of the soil, contributing to a better flow of water. We well know that there are problems associated with the footwear, such as the slippery floor, loose stones and the difficulty of locomotion, especially of people with reduced mobility. But it is also true that these problems do not arise so much from the floor itself, due, above all, to the way in which the footwear is placed, the lack of maintenance, the lack of skilled workers and the parking of vehicles on the streets, which causes its deterioration. Regarding the extraction of stone, limestone or other used on floors, it is important to bear in mind the essential compliance with the rules of good practice, seeking to respect the issues of safety, sustainability and environmental protection and to reduce, as far as possible, the impact of this activity on the environment and the uncomfortable ones on local populations. On the other hand, if we talk about the Portuguese footwear, we will have to talk about the profession of shoemaker, a hard and weary profession, genuinely Portuguese and intimately linked to our cultural heritage, which must be valued, dignified and stimulated, because they are the socks that make the Portuguese footwear a work of art appreciated all over the world. Now, if the Portuguese footwear is a process of artistic creation based on a cultural tradition, it is essential to bet on the formation of socks, under the penalty of losing the experience and knowledge of the art of footwear. Finally, it is recalled that the Portuguese footwear is being the subject of a process of candidacy for the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity, UNESCO, and that it would be important for the Government to be involved in this matter. Thus, and recognizing that many of the responsibilities related to the Portuguese footwear are within the competence of the local power, what The Greens want to bring to the discussion with their legislative initiative is the enhancement of the Portuguese footwear, the valorization of the shoemaker profession and the involvement of the Portuguese Government in supporting the candidacy of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity, subjects which can and should be the object of intervention by the Government, since it is a heritage of all of us. With this initiative, the Greens are still seeking to meet the claims of the petitioners we are also discussing, and which, on behalf of the Greens, I warmly welcome. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u65	Mr André Silva, from the PAN, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to welcome the petitioners who brought this issue to the debate. The Portuguese footwear assumes itself as a distinctive and identity trait of several urban centers in Portugal, responsible for a peculiar luminosity recognized in all corners of the world, which confers a very specific beauty and represents an important factor of air conditioning, making cities cooler and allowing water infiltration, unlike what happens with cement or bituminous floors, which absorb heat and waterproof soils. It should be noted that the biggest problem pointed to the Portuguese footwear relates to the difficulty of locomotion of people with reduced mobility, resulting from poor placement, misuse or absence of maintenance. There are recent examples that have shown that other types of floors, as a result of misuse by the disordered car parking, generate the same anomalies in the walks. In view of the above, the NAP considers that the Portuguese footwear, as a distinctive heritage trace, should be maintained and protected whenever possible, especially in historical centres, without prejudice to the incorporation of materials that improve the adhesion and comfort of the floor. In addition, it is important to promote the professional training of more socks capable of maintaining the guarantees of quality and stability of the footwear, ensuring the issues of mobility, adherence and comfort.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u67	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party first welcomes the petitioners who brought to the Assembly of the Republic the need to defend and enhance the Portuguese footwear. The PCP presents a draft resolution that goes precisely in this direction, pointing out the unique value that the Portuguese footwear has in our culture, as an inheritance of heritage and collective memory, but also, herself, a traditional activity that needs to be maintained and valued. It is clear that the Portuguese footwear involves multiple dimensions in its production, whether at the level of the extraction and production of the stone, or at the level of the process of settling the stones, best known for footwear. It is a traditional activity in our country, which values cities, taking into account the reuse of the materials it promotes and the possibility of, at all times, better use of these materials, without resorting to new production. It should also highlight its ability not to waterproof the soils and also contribute to a better functioning of the cities and the floors in which we walk daily. We also point out that this is an art that has deep roots to the historical level that already come from Roman times. The Romans themselves have been drinking artistic influences to other peoples in this matter, to the Etruscans, to the Carthaginians, to the Phoenicians, to the Egyptians, and we have come to today with this originality of our country, which is the Portuguese footwear, which, in fact, has an art, because, despite it seems to have a relatively simple technique, it is relatively complex. This art and this work are often not properly valued and estimated, because workers' wages are short, working conditions are also difficult and often inadequate. The truth is that the services are being outsourced and often these socks, which, day by day, develop with love to their art this profession, then do not have the stability and the bond they should have and the appreciation of their own work. Therefore, for the PCP to talk about the enhancement of the Portuguese footwear involves three distinct aspects: on the one hand, the valorization itself; on the other hand, the dissemination of the traditional ways of doing the footwear, the construction and manufacturing techniques of this form of pavement; and also the valorization of the concrete profession itself, the professional qualification of these workers and their labor stability. Finally, what we propose is that there also be a declaration by the Assembly of the Republic to support the candidature of the Portuguese footwear to the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u69	Mr Jorge Campos, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group naturally starts by welcoming the petitioners. These are initiatives like this, aiming at everyone's participation in safeguarding the common good, which gives meaning to citizenship. in a globalized world, with a tendency to make everything equal, defend the specific, genuine is a guarantee not only of a differentiated present, but also of a future with deep roots in the common history. What would our cities be like without their identity marks, without their monuments, without their heritage, without everything that is unique, just because it is a bearer of memory? The Portuguese footwear is included in this memory. Despite the Roman and Islamic influences, as well as other subsequent influences, it expanded fundamentally from the second half of the 19th century. It reached high artistic quality. Their geometric and decorative motives have become part of the imagination of our cities, especially the city of Lisbon. Then the shoe traveled to other places, such as Brazil. However, despite the enormous value that is recognized by it, it has not always been duly guarded. The same is true of his artists, footballers. That is why the Left Block Parliamentary Group joins all those who call for measures to safeguard the Portuguese footwear, without being overlooked — Mrs and Mrs. Members, this is very important — as a guarantee of security, the possibility of coexistence between the artistic footwear and other floor coverings more suitable for pedestrian use. Also, for reasons of comfort and safety, it is necessary to avoid its degradation. Therefore, it is necessary to value the profession and the art of footwear, to collect and inventory the existing artistic footwear, as well as its intangible heritage, to develop promotion and dissemination strategies, to promote the study on the history, aesthetics, masters and materials of this art. For this reason, it is necessary to articulate the government with local power, as well as the involvement of the Portuguese Footwear Association and the School of Soccers of the City Hall of Lisbon, depositary of the knowledge of the profession. The Left Block Parliamentary Group proposes that the Assembly of the Republic recommend that the Government support the candidature of the Portuguese footwear to the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u71	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to greet the 5753 petitioners who, in the exercise of their citizenship, brought to the discussion the defense of the Portuguese footwear. Analyzing the object of petition No 281 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), as well as recommendations to the Government expressed in the various draft resolutions under discussion, we can conclude that concern about safeguarding Portuguese footwear is consensual. Ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, the Portuguese footwear is a natural stone floor, characteristic of the city of Lisbon and Portugal. Today, it is recognized by all for its artistic beauty and is present throughout the world. however, the generalization of the footwear ended up having consequences, such as the use of less noble and less quality materials. The use of unskilled labour and the absence of supervision led in many cases to the degradation of some floors, making them uncomfortable or even unsafe for pawns, especially for the elderly, for people with reduced mobility and in wheelchairs and children. However, we cannot conclude that the use of alternative floors is the only solution to minimize people's insecurity, since the problems are transversal to all types of floors used in the construction of walks when they are not properly placed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the technique of application, combined with creativity, has transformed a mere floor into artistic heritage, which values the public space and is a strong brand of our historical identity. We understand that the Portuguese footwear must be preserved, but it is up to us to avoid its depreciation and progressive elimination, since it is only possible to make use of it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group is associated with the concern of the petitioners and, in this sense, has entered the Assembly of the Republic, a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the safeguarding of Portuguese footwear, through mechanisms that minimize its degradation, and proposes that the Government join the candidature of the Portuguese footwear to UNESCO's Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out that Portugal is in fashion because it is a safe country, but also because we have an odd material and immaterial heritage that is recognized worldwide by its history and value. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u73	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners for the fact that this is the second petition discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, in this Legislative Session, revealing the importance and significance of the Portuguese footwear. In fact, this point is a demonstration of the union and unanimity in this House as to the need to support initiatives with a view to their consecration as an immaterial heritage and as a translation of a technique and practice of something that is an identifier of the public space in Portugal and in several places where the Portuguese presence has left it. From the pattern "Mar Largo", which can be seen in Rossio, Rio de Janeiro, Luanda, Maputo, Macau, we find a trace of the brand that leaves in the public space and that allows us to make this identification. In addition, we are talking about a profession, an activity, a technical specialty that matters to value and not lose so as to ensure that, when performed and implemented in the public space, it is done with quality and safety for people who attend this public space. however, it is also essential to recognize that there are challenges in how we view the classification and preservation of Portuguese footwear and it is absolutely essential that this debate also places as priority the modernisation and harmonization of the use of Portuguese footwear with the needs of citizens with reduced mobility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u76	... that they must be able to circulate safely at all locations and without any restriction caused by the obstacles that this public space can place. in this sense, it seems very important to distinguish three different levels of analysis of the portuguese footwear. First, we have the cases in which it translates an artistic work that should be protected and, eventually, even worthy of classification as a particular manifestation, singular of an artist, and which therefore is in a certain classification level that leads to more intense protection. Secondly, we have the Portuguese footwear as a characteristic of certain places, places that are historical centers, places where it is part of the architectural, urban and artistic intervention, and which, by this systematic insertion into a set, also deserves protection. Thirdly, we find Portuguese footwear in other places, where not only do we find this artistic and urban dimension, as we have a great presence of citizens and citizens with reduced mobility who also need answers to be able to circulate safely. This is where the challenge lies, and it is crucial here that we recognise that we must evolve in the coexistence between the Portuguese footwear and another type of footwear, preserving this brand but creating smooth corridors so that all people can move around — again to say so — safely in the public space, and, eventually, we will look at another type of material that introduces a dimension of modernization of the Portuguese footwear, giving greater adherence to the floors and ensuring that, in moments of untimely, when the floor is slippery, when there is difficulty in crossing it, we will not create obstacles to people who have the fundamental right to travel safely on the street and also to appreciate the footwear that is in its surroundings. It's not always easy. in the management of the public space, often these problems are not simply overcoming, but I think we can simultaneously preserve the heritage and safeguard the safety of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u77	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by complimenting the petitioners, in the person of the first subscriber, Paulo Marques dos Santos, for the balance of the text and for the opportunity not only of the theme but also of the consensus that was generated among the various benches as to the importance of looking at the Portuguese footwear. In fact, this discussion was generated around the various draft resolutions presented by the parliamentary groups and which have as their main concern the preservation of the Portuguese footwear, also known as the Portuguese mosaic. Being consensual that the Portuguese footwear is part of the cultural and artistic identity of our country and, in particular, of the capital, we all know that the footwear should be valued, preserved and exalted as a unique national and cultural heritage. In addition, the Portuguese footwear prints to our cities and villages a unique light and beauty, which is an added reason for being appreciated both by the places and by the numerous tourists who visit us daily and who find in the footwear the reason for the light that characterizes us. On the other hand, and as has already been stated many times, the Portuguese footwear contributes to a better and good waterproofing of the soils and a better flow of the waters, in addition to the retention of the soils. Now, as we all have to recognise, there are many problems that are associated with the Portuguese footwear. From then on, the floor slips in bad conditions, the loose and disordered stones and also the difficulties that constitute for people with reduced mobility, whether temporary or permanent, and for people with difficulty in locomotion. We are therefore talking particularly about blind or amblyopic people or people carrying carts of children or children by hand. These are just some of the examples that people face when the Portuguese footwear is not properly cared for. We also know that much of these problems are largely due to the lack of maintenance, repair and preservation of these floors, or to the neglect of the local authorities, or to the lack of professionals specializing in this. Thus, the CDS has always defended here, in Parliament, but also in the City Hall of Lisbon, the revitalization of the School of Soccers, opening competitions and training courses to have a number of professionals who can maintain and provide the continuity of this art in our country. Another issue that also seems essential to us is the classification of Portuguese footwear, and the classification as artistic footwear must, yes, and first, be preserved and considered national heritage, thus ensuring its effective maintenance and preservation. In conclusion, Mr President, we must bear in mind that the valorization and preservation of the historical and cultural heritage cannot be achieved without the active participation of the local authority through the authorities, which must be encouraged and supported by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u80	Even to conclude, Mr President, I am speaking on the candidature of the Portuguese footwear, in its different artistic and urban characteristics, the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity, of UNESCO: we will follow this candidacy by ensuring our political and parliamentary support so that this is a reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u81	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 292 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by updating the value of scientific research scholarships ( ABIC — Association of Scientific Research Fellowships ) in general with Bill No 699 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Research Fellowship on the value of research grants ( NAP ), with draft resolution No 1194 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to support research scholarships, in particular the updating of the value of scientific research scholarships ( NAPs) and, in general, also with the projects of lein.o 702 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary update of the research grants and mechanism for the annual updating of the scientific research grants ( Fifth amendment to Law No 40 / 2004 of 18 August ) ( PCP ) and 704 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Update of scientific research grants ( BE ). For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the petitioners for bringing this issue to debate. Because we agree with your demands, we follow this request with the presentation of two initiatives. On the one hand, we argue that the Government promotes an extraordinary update of the value of research scholarships in order to restore the purchasing power that the stockholders have lost due to inflation and that it explores the possibility of integrating current research scholarships into the Scientific Research Career Statute, a way of mitigating the precariousness in which these researchers live. On the other hand, we want to ensure in the law the annual update of the value of research scholarships and to ensure that these researchers are entitled to holiday, Christmas and meal allowance, compensation which we consider fair under the exclusivity regime to which they are obliged. The latest update of the value of research scholarships took place 15 years ago, which is inconceivable, and the measures we now propose will contribute so that this does not happen again, strengthening the rights of those who work in science.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners who are present in the galleries of the Plenary and by welcoming the struggle of the pockets to defend their rights, for the sake of precariousness and for the valorization of scientific work. The CFP has long advocated updating the amounts of scientific research scholarships and has been presenting various initiatives around this proposal. We have recently done so in the discussion of the State budget, and today we are bringing the debate, again, this fair claim of the pockets. We want to say that it is 15 years, 15 years in which the life of the highly qualified workers, essential for the development and scientific progress of our country, has not known any appreciation due to the amounts they take under the Statute of the Research Fellowship. Except for a glimpse of a small step in 2018, which, unless enlargement measures are taken today, will be restricting the increase in the stock exchanges to a minority of stockholders, excluding even the lower and the most penalized stock exchanges due to the loss of purchasing power. We are talking about the scientific initiation scholarships— €385 is what we are talking about, which is very low—, being the research technician of €565 or €745. These are values for highly qualified workers, who have difficulty going through everyday life and for those who have spent more months on what they receive. The CFP considers that, without measures to increase all pockets, contradictions can be generated and even discrimination between pockets which are covered by the same Statute. And because everyone, as mentioned by ABIC ( Association of Scientific Research Fellowships ) has felt a great loss of purchasing power, then we have to take — and today we have the possibility to do — measures that bring greater justice to scientific research fellows. Therefore, more than merely incorporating holiday, Christmas or meal subsidies, what makes sense is to guarantee employment contracts on the horizon of these workers that include the recognition of these and other rights. That is why the CFP defends and has proposed the progressive integration of the scholarships into the career of scientific research that meet the permanent needs of the institutions. But one thing is right, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: the stockholders can no longer be 15 years away from waiting for their lives to know an appreciation of what they receive and, therefore, what we propose is that there should be an annual update to the minimum of the expected increases for all employees of the Public Administration, as well as — because it is also very fair — an extraordinary update of 5 % for exchanges of more than € 1000 and of 10 % for exchanges of less than € 1000. It is urgent to put an end to the undervalue of these workers, and to put an end to the injustices. The use of the Statute of the Research Fellowship as a way to meet the needs of the national scientific and technological system has been a constant option of successive governments, constitutes a perversion of the system itself and prevents the consolidation and development of the national scientific and technological system.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u85	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u86	I will finish, Mr. President. What we want is to end the degradation of the social and professional condition of these researchers, because, in fact, these pockets, in their overwhelming majority, are effectively researchers or research technicians and should be integrated. The promotion and contribution of the CFP to the fight of these workers remains here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u87	Mr Luís Monteiro spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate ABIC and its members, and I would also like to greet the 4429 petitioners who, from this petition, demand the updating of the value of the scholarships. The importance of these pockets, of these researchers, of these scientific workers is indisputable. They are responsible for advances in science and for much of the research being done in Portugal today. Unfortunately, the stock exchange values have been unchanged since 2002, the date of their last update. We are now assuming that since 2002 these fellows have not recognized, nor do they know any kind of update of their stock exchange values by successive governments. It will now be, with the State Budget for 2018, that the doctoral grants will be updated, a small and still insufficient measure for 15 years of freezing. This measure, proposed by the Left Block, was adopted, despite the vote against the Socialist Party, and that is precisely why it needs more. And that is also precisely why the Bloc proposes, in its draft law, that the end of the exclusivity regime exists until the date of the transfer of the first grant of the grant. The State may not allow delays in the payment of the grants and require those same pockets to have an exclusivity regime, even if they do not receive it. We also propose recovery of the single subsidy for propines, records and costs, which was cut by the previous government on the right, and an automatic updating mechanism for all the grants directly or indirectly financed by the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) and although, between 2019 and 2022, there is also a compensation factor for the years in which they were not updated in the value of 5 % of the exchanges. We also follow the concerns and proposals expressed here by the NAP and the CFP. It would be a positive sign that, today, these projects knew a majority in the plenary, also providing an opportunity for the Socialist Party to correct the voting position expressed in the vote on the State budget, as, for example, corrected its vote on renewable energies. The precariousness of higher education and science has worried the Left Block. A discussion about the entry of these pockets into the career of scientific research is also a key issue for the Left Block. That is why, even today, Minister Manuel Heitor will come to Parliament, the requirement of the Left Block, discuss the precariousness of fellows, other researchers and teachers of higher education, because this is a struggle not only of the fellows but of all the workers and of all the workers of higher education and science. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u89	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa spoke for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today this request from ABIC — to whom I have already complied, as well as the petitioners — and, together with it, a set of initiatives, presented by the PAN, the CFP and the BE. The petition addresses two different questions, and the CDS maintains what it said at the time of the hearing to petitioners, which took place in June this year. Firstly, as regards the nature of the link to Public Administration, the Statute of the Research Fellowship determines that the purpose of a scholarship is to finance a study and training time and therefore does not reflect a working relationship in the same terms and with the same obligations as a work contract. It is true that the problem lies in the fact that the research stock exchange instrument has been grossly widespread over the years, far beyond this purpose. And that, yes, is what's wrong. Moreover, it states the opinion of the Organisation of Scientific Workers ( OTC ) received from the Commission : « As regards the content of the petition in question, it should be noted that, if successful, it may become objectively contrary to the interests of the research fellows by giving decision-makers an argument or justification for delaying sine die the realization of the greater objective of replacing the stock exchange regime with a contract scheme ». On the other hand, as regards the value of the scholarships, also contested in the petition, which has been frozen since 2002, the CDS committed itself at the time to present a solution, and so did it in the State Budget. The proposal we have tabled took into account the necessary weighting of interests, in particular in order not to involve unforeseen and incompatible costs for institutions associated with ongoing research projects. Moreover, the CDS presented the very same proposal that the Block also presented — of updating values based on inflation — but which was plunged by the parties to the left because it was the CDS, in an attempt to prevent our intervention in this matter. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u91	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u92	But I make it clear: in the CDS we seek to be responsible and therefore we voted in favour of the Block proposal, enabling it, because, frankly, for us, above the political flag of the Block or the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u94	... are the possible solutions for the research pockets. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u95	I have the floor for an intervention by the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying that it is only unfortunate that the CDS did not remember to present this proposal when it was government and that during these four years it did not do anything about this. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u97	Good answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u98	Turning to what really matters, the Greens want to greet the more than 4600 petitioners we are now discussing and the promoters of this petition, ABIC. Research is essential for the development of societies and for the evolution of the answers we have to give in our societies. That is why those who think sustainable development do not lack research. And the dignity of these professionals is fundamental. Therefore, the Greens so often here accused the perpetrators of real crime, essentially the PSD and the CDS, when, in the four years in which they were government, they sent — they sent between quotes — emigrants or put inactivity resources at the level of scientific research, with the waste of highly qualified professionals, which we cannot waste. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that these professionals, the pocket researchers, who are in activity satisfying permanent needs in institutions, know the precariousness of life. It is said in the petition that since 2002 these professionals have frozen the value of the bags. Therefore, since January 2002, there are nearly 16 years, which is not updated the value of their scholarships. It is fair, therefore, to defend the updating of these scholarships. But this update should not only be done in an extraordinary way and depending on the good or bad will of the government, because it is not a matter of favors, it is a matter of justice. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP]] The Greens consider that what has been enshrined in the State Budget for 2018 is not enough. Leave, anyway, lots of research bags outside. What The Greens are advocating is the progressive integration of the scholarships into the career of scientific research. That is the true solution, the just solution, the sustainable solution for a country that does not want to waste highly specialized and qualified resources and that really respects its professionals. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u99	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet and greet the petitioners, who want to value scientific work by updating the value of the scholarships. It is fair to recognise the indispensable contribution of research scholarships to the progress of knowledge. However, many of these researchers are in the situation of false scholarships that have grown in the previous legislation and that this governance has committed itself to resolving, as has been done through the Estimulum to Scientific Employment 2017 / 2019 programme, the PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precautionary Links of Public Administration ), of combating precariousness, of supporting the hiring of 3000 doctors in 2018 and 5000 to the end of the Legislature, of strengthening the financing of the FCT, of strengthening the State budget for science in proportion to GDP, accompanying the European convergence, which had been abandoned by the previous Government. All these measures reflect the appreciation and dignity of the scientific work that has been done and is a commitment of this governance. It is a commitment to science to this national design that is being fulfilled. But a file on which it has been uninvested in all one, the previous one, legislation cannot be resumed from day to night.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u101	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u102	I would therefore like to say that we generally agree with the demands they make. These claims are fair, their principles are being integrated into the current policies. I would also like to say that we have distinguished — here is something that distinguishes us from the CFP, The Greens and the Block — fake bags of real bags. Everything we're doing to make the fake bags turn into scientific contracts. The true scholarships and training must have a different legal-laboral link and should continue to be ensured in the framework of training grants. Everything is being done to increase the number of scholarships for new doctorates to be allocated annually. Some of these increases have been resumed and we want to achieve the levels that we had in 2011 and also increase the success rate compared to 2015. As for the PCP, Bloc and PAN projects, we agree with their principles, they are fair in updating the scholarships. In fact, also in the State Budget, as has already been said, the value of the doctoral scholarship was updated. However, these projects impose charges that are not included in the State Budget for 2018, they propose charges beyond the next year that cannot be guaranteed at this time, assuming therefore a rigorous evaluation that should be made every year, in each Budget, as was done this year, in this Budget, always by valuing scientific work, always by valuing science as a factor of development of the Country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u103	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Elza Pais's speech reminded me of Mr Prime Minister. The Socialist Party agrees with everything that researchers ask for in abstract, but in reality they cannot give and vote against. They are absolutely right in everything, but they actually vote against it. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] What is happening here, in this debate, with these proposals, is nothing more than an adjustment of post-State budget accounts. And I speak for the PCP and for the Left Block : if it was so important to make this update retroactively, then, after all, increase all these values, then why did they make it possible for the State Budget, which did not have this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u105	Were you guys going to increase? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u106	Why have they made the State Budget viable? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u107	But without a budget would that be solved?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u108	After all, they made it possible for the State budget and this was not there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u109	It's being demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u110	There is one thing that seems important to me: this is only to deceive people, because, if it were fundamental, they had not made the State budget viable without these measures. And there is something else that also seems important to me: what is happening here is that, finally, the Left Block and the PCP have stopped trying to cover up the government's incompetence in higher education and science. 2017 is the true black year of science in Portugal! It is the year in which new scholarships for new doctors have not been opened, in which the value of the scholarships has not been increased, in which for the first time two research scholarships have been fired, because they have come to cooperate with Parliament and have been persecuted at the Science and Technology Foundation, the year in which there is not even an alternative to the FCT investigator's scholarships, because the government has not had time to present them. And all we are discussing here is for the simple reason that scientific employment is not yet in force, because the government is incompetent and cannot present the necessary regulations, because the Minister is weak and fragile and cannot impose on the institutions the enforcement of the law which has been adopted here. And why does this happen? Because the government has no money, even to pay what it owes to higher education institutions, because it has increased wages charges, it promised the institutions that, by the end of the year, it would pay that money, but said that there was a mistake of the services of the Ministry of Finance and that it will be able to pay only in 2018. It's all a farce! The Government, in the field of higher education and science, is of generalized incompetence. It is not by chance that the FCT is the institution of the State that least executed the funds provided for in the State Budget in 2016 and in 2017 goes along the same path. This discussion takes place today because the diploma of scientific employment, which was the resolution of all problems, which was to create 3000 contracts in 2017, is now only for 2018. The Government and the Socialist Party are isolated in this matter. The Left Block does not forgive them, the PCP does not forgive them and the other opposition parties do not forgive them either. The government is weakened, the Minister is weakened and has lost the shame, because it does not even pay what it owes to the institutions. He does not comply with the trust agreement he has established with the institutions and does not even comply with what he says and promises to the pockets.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u111	You don't know what you're saying! See the European indicators!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u112	For the Socialist Party, the discourse of science is only a narrative, because we have actually returned to the most serious time of the period of the troika. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u113	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group is also included for a second speech. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to tell Mrs Elza Pais that I have been listening to her very carefully, and, moreover, we have heard here every week about this government's great commitment to science, but, Mrs Elza Pais, there is something that is not right. They turned the page, reversed the policy of the previous government, but then executed less EUR 42 million in the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u115	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u116	They are very much in agreement with the pockets, they are very aware of the issues they bring here, but when the time comes to vote, to include in the State budget, they vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u117	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u118	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, it was time to correct the speech with the action and, frankly, by 2018, what I would like is that the PS will begin to organize its speech and its action to have some degree of consistency in this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this debate. This is followed by a period of regiment votes, but on a traditional issue, although we can start to register ourselves from now on for what I ask the services that operate the quorum electronic verification system, we will only start the votes at noon. In the meantime, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS-PP requested the withdrawal of draft resolution No 454 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government complete the unfinished link of the CI6, from Table to Oliveira do Hospital ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not forget that we will be voting by electronic means, that there are a number of requests for discharge to the committee, without a vote, of several legislative initiatives and that there are numerous disaggregated votes requested by the NAP on draft resolutions relating to drought, and that they will only be voted on at the end, since there are still parliamentary groups to decide their point-to-point vote. However, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will also take note of a diploma that has entered the Bureau, after what we will do, then a brief break.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 1211 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the state laboratory staff framework and the strengthening of research and development funding funds associated with innovation in the agri-food and forestry sectors ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u123	I believe that today there are all conditions for all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, take note of this waiting bar. So let's take a brief break. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records the presence of 210 Members, and there is more than enough quorum to vote. Let us then begin by voting No 458/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the classification of the village of Sistalo as a national monument ( PSD ). I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « at the beginning of this December, the village of Sistelo, located in the municipality of Arcos de Valdevez, saw its uniqueness recognized by the Council of Ministers when it was classified as National Monument and Cultural Landscape. This classification is the first of the genres in Portugal. With this classification, the village of Sistalo, which had already been the winner of the contest 7 Wonders of Portugal ( Rural Villages ), saw its recognized architectural and landscape value. The area now classified is part of the Natura Network and since 2009 it has been classified as a UNESCO World Biosphere Reserve and covers an extended space of unequal environmental and natural quality. The village of Sistalo, located at the gates of Peneda-Gerês National Park, is home to a remarkable ethnographic and historical heritage, shaped by human occupation, of which it resulted a territory characterized by its socalcos perfectly framed in the surrounding landscape, which even led informally to the fact that it was already called ‘small Portuguese Tibet’. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the recognition of the village of Sistelo, in Arces de Valdevez, as National Monument and Cultural Landscape and enhances the involvement of all entities who have contributed in a committed way to obtaining more this award for the High Mint ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u125	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will now vote on three requests submitted by the PSD, the PCP and the BE, respectively, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, of draft resolution No 570 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assign to the Ombudsman the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal ( PSD ) of draft law No 700 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the National Committee on the Rights of Children and Youth ( PCP ) and draft resolution No 1203 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Recommends the establishment of a national committee on the rights of children, in compliance with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Children and the Convention on the Rights of Children. The aim of the three demands is the same, but they have different deadlines, so I think that, if there are no objections, we can establish the 45-day deadline as a common deadline for all. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, so it will be. We shall then vote on those requests. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1202 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that reports on the implementation by the Portuguese State of the Convention on the Rights of the Child be distributed to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and against the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 696 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the territorial limits of the parish of Vila das Aves and Lordelo, the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 657 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Aves and Lordelo, the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill also falls to 11. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 175 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the reopening of the possibility of requiring the reinstatement in its functions of State servants under Decree-Law No 173 / 74 of 26 April ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 3. the Commission. In the script, there is a vote of draft resolutions which will be voted on later. We moved on to draft resolution No 829 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — proposes the implementation of a programme of deburocratization and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( CFPs ), for which the NAP requested the breakdown of the vote under points ( d ), ( e ) and ( f ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u126	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u127	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u128	Mr President, it is just to say that, unfortunately, we do not indicate that we would also like to vote separately on point (a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u129	So we have three voting groups: first, point (a); then points (d), (e) and (f); and finally the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u130	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u131	Mrs. Members, so let us go on draft resolution No 829 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) submitted by the CFP, first to vote point ( a ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the joint vote on points (d), (e) and (f) of the same draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the remaining part of the diploma. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1187 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminating legal and administrative problems and blockades that make life difficult for enterprises ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceeded to the joint vote of five requests submitted by the NAP, the PCP, the BE, the PS and the Os Verdes respectively, asking the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport for a period of 60 days without a vote of the projects of lein.o 695 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the end of use of animals in circuses ( NAP ), 701 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the protection of animals used in circuses ( PCP ), 703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Bans the use of wild animals in circuses and establishes measures to support the circus arts ( BE), 705 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the prohibition on the use of wild animals in circuses by amending Decree-Law No 255 / 2009 of 24 September ( PS ) and 706 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On animals in circus ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we proceed to the general vote on Bill No 708 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No. 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), second amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2003, of 22 August ( Law of the Political Parties ), seventh amendment to Law No. 19 / 2003, of 20 June ( Law of the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), and first amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2005, of 10 January ( Law of the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing) ( PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of Bill No 708 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). We begin by voting Article 6 ( 1 ). the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and against the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 10 ( 1 ( g ). the Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, as set out in Article 3. the draft law No 708 / XIII ( 3. ( a). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and against the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We will now vote on the remaining rules of the bill in question in the specialty. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to the global final vote of Bill No 708 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) who lacks an absolute majority of Members in effective office by means of an electronic vote in accordance with Article 166 ( 2 ). Article 164 ( c) and ( h ). Article 168 ( 5 ) and ( 5 ). the Constitution of the Republic. [[Subject to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 192 votes in favour (PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes) and 18 votes against (CDS-PP and PAN).]] Mrs. Members, we shall immediately turn to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolution No 833 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( convoluted in draft Rules of Procedure ) — Amends the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, ensuring the gender impact assessment in the legislative procedure ( PS ), because it requires the absolute majority of Members present using electronic voting in accordance with Article 267 ( 4 ). o is 94. the Rules of Procedure. Let's vote for him. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the Members present, with 115 votes in favour (PS, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the PAN) and 93 abstentions (PSD and PCP).]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall request the waiver of final drafting and, in order to be able to follow rapidly, the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of draft law No 708/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No. 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), second amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2003, of 22 August ( Law of the Political Parties ), seventh amendment to Law No. 19 / 2003, of 20 June ( Law of the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ), and first amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2005, of 10 January ( Law of the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing) ( PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u132	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u133	To what effect, Mr. André Silva?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u134	Mr President, it is to announce that with regard to draft law No 708 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), we will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u135	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We moved on to draft resolution No 1188/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the remaining hydrocarbon concessions in the territory and assess the quality and methods of extraction of imported gas ( BE and PAN ). The CFP requested that the remaining items 2 and 3 be voted on first and then. We shall therefore vote on points 2 and 3 of the draft resolution. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1197 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by suspension of research and exploration of hydrocarbons off Aljezur ( PCP ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the members of PS Ana Passos, Antonio Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio, Helena Roseta, Luís Graça, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Pedro do Carmo, Sofia Araújo and PSD, PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u136	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u137	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u138	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u139	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u140	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u141	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present, on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Sofia Araújo, a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u142	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1025 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Calls on the Government to stop the prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons (The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1166 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by valuing the Portuguese footwear, by supporting the candidacy of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity and by valuing the profession of shoemaker ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. Luís Graça, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u143	Mr President, it is to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on the three draft resolutions on hydrocarbons, which have been voted on earlier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u144	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1192 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards maintaining and valuing the Portuguese footwear ( PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1196 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of Portuguese footwear and footwear ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1200 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the art of footwear and the Portuguese footwear ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1208/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and enhance the Portuguese footwear ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 699 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Research Fellowship on the value of research scholarships ( NAPs ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 1194/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to support research scholarships, in particular the updating of the value of scientific research scholarships ( NAPs) for which the PSD requested the separate vote in point 1, paragraph 2 and then the remaining ones. We shall vote on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Finally, let us vote on the remaining points. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed with the general vote on lein.o 702 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary update of research grants and mechanism for the annual updating of scientific research grants ( fifth amendment to Law No 40 / 2004 of 18 August ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Also in general, we will vote for Bill No. 704 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Update of scientific research grants ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 590 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make every effort to recover and enhance the Peniche Fortress ( PSD ) for which the NAP requested a separate vote on points 1 and 2. So we started by voting on point 1. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 875 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommendation to the Government for an urgent study on the implications for the Portuguese economy for the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on the text of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on the drafts of lein. 571 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September ( Budget Framework Act ) ( CDS-PP ) and 638 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the public disclosure of the use of captives in the budgets of entities which integrate the direct and indirect administration of the State ( first amendment to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September - Budget Framework Act ) ( CFP ). The authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall, in general, vote in the speciality and in the overall final vote, the replacement text, submitted by the National Defence Commission, concerning draft law No 340 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces ( EMFAR ) ( PCP ). The author withdrew his initiative in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedom and Guarantees on Bill No 96 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by allowing the electronic notification of lawyers and informal defenders. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 512 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Gender Impact Assessment Scheme for Regulatory Acts ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on Bill No 97 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the sanction scheme applicable to the development of collaborative financing activity. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 15 to 22 of the Journal on plenary meetings of 2, 3, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28 and 29 November 2017. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We must also vote on three opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I call on Mr Duarte Pacheco to read them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Procurator's Office of the Republic of the Comarca de Coimbra, Public Prosecutor's Office — Case No 81 / 17.8T9AGN —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Mauricio Marques ( PSD ) to intervene within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of Judge 3 of the Central Criminal Court of Braga of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga — Case No 963 / 13.6TABRG —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Lopes Soares ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u148	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we will vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Organic Unit 1 of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Tribunal de Viseu — Case No 262 / 16.1BEVIS —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Marisabel Moutela ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u150	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on the draft resolutions we left at the end of the meeting, but I am being informed that requests for disaggregations of votes are still being formalised. Mrs. Members, requests for the breakdown of votes must be submitted until the beginning of the voting period, because the situation is thus completely unacceptable for the Bureau. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u151	I say this because we are still receiving requests to disaggregate votes at a time when we are already starting the votes. Mrs. Members, with regard to requests for disaggregation, in addition to having to be delivered until the beginning of the voting period, at least when there are draft resolutions with several points, in which one agrees with one another and not with another, the normal vote is abstention, it is not necessary to be voting point-by-point. Doing this is a completely absurd thing, an innovation in the wrong direction. Although it is a right of the parliamentary groups to proceed as they wish, I appeal that these disaggregations simply end because they do not make the slightest sense. I say this because, for example, the NAP today called for some 15 breakdowns. With regard to draft resolution No 1078 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It recommends to the Government exceptional measures to support farmers affected by drought ( CDS-PP ), the PAN was requested to empower the vote on point 8, first, and points 9 and 10, then, and by the Left Block, the vote on point 5, first, and the other points after. We shall therefore vote on point 5. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 8. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on point 9. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from BE.]] Let us vote on point 10. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PSD, the BE and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE and CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u152	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u153	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u154	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-22.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1195 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to mitigate water costs resulting from the effects of climate change in the agricultural sector ( CDS-PP ). The Left Block has requested that we vote at point 2 unbundledly. Let us vote on this point. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] Let's vote on the remaining points. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and BE and the NAP abstained.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1184 / XIII ( 3a ). It recommends that the Government adopt additional measures to mitigate drought ( PSD ). The Left Block calls for a separate vote on point 2 and the NAP calls for separate votes on points 3 and 6 and the remaining points together. So let us start by voting on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, with votes against the PSD and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the BE and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 6. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Finally, let us vote on the remaining points. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1198/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take support measures for farmers and livestock producers affected by the drought ( CFP ). The NAP requests that first point 1 ( a ), ( c ) and ( h ) be voted on, then point 3 ( a ), then point 1 ( b ), ( g ), ( k ), ( i ) and point 2 ( e ) and finally the remaining points. The PS also calls for a separate vote of point 3 and Greens to be voted on separately, point 3 ( a ). Let us begin by voting on point 1 ( a ), ( c ) and ( h ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS and the NAP.]] We shall now vote on point 3 ( a ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PCP, against the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on the remaining points of point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on points 1 ( b ), ( g ), ( k ), ( i ), and 2 ( e ). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] Let us vote on the remaining points. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1199 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote strategies to respond to the country's hydrological condition ( CFP ). The NAP requests a separate vote on points 1 ( b ) and 2 ( d ). Let us begin by voting on point 1 ( b ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us vote on point 2 ( d ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PS and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the remaining points of points 1 and 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1211/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support agriculture and livestock to mitigate damage caused by drought ( BE ). The NAP requested that point 1 be voted on first, then points 2 and 3 and finally the other points. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we started by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] Let us vote on points 2 and 3. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were adopted and votes against the PS and the NAP.]] Finally, let us vote on the remaining points. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1206 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that measures are taken with a view to increasing the reuse of wastewater from treatment stations with a view to the implementation of the Drought Effects Prevention, Monitoring and Monitoring Plan (NAP). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the vote. The next plenary session will take place on 4 January, Thursday, whose agenda will include a first item with political statements and a second item with the joint assessment of petitions Nos 191 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Establishment of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver of the Person with Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative dementias or pathologies and creation of the National Caregiver Day (Alzheimer's Informational Caregiver Group and similar dementias and others) and 264 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — They request the adoption of measures to defend the river Tejo, in particular the closure of the nuclear power plant of Almaraz ( Paulo Fernando da Graça Constantino et al.) and of draft resolutions 738 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government allow the use of analytical results obtained with spot samples in the control of polluting discharges ( CDS-PP ), 1190 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures for the depollution of the Tejo River and the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant ( BE ), 1191 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt surveillance and environmental action measures to mitigate the harmful effects of pollution sources in the river Tejo ( PAN ), 1204 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the defense and integrated protection of the Tejo river basin ( Os Verdes) and 1207 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to defend the Tejo river basin ( PCP ). I wish all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a happy Christmas, a good New Year, with fewer decompositions of the votes of the resolutions, and I leave a sincere embrace from the whole Bureau to all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all the ladies and gentlemen. Officials and all the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is closed. [[PSD, PS, BE, PCP and Greens applause.]] [[It was 12 hours and 48 minutes.]]
