ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries. As you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today our agenda consists of a single point, which is a marking of the Left Block, in which the Decree-Law No 11 -A / 2017 of 17 January will be appreciated, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate by the employer[ Parliamentary assessments n. 30 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) and 29 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CFP ) ] by voting at the end of the debate. But first, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to take care of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 374 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the annual update of legal services fees provided by lawyers in the context of legal support ( Second amendment to Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July ) ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 375 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Prevents and combats harassment at the workplace ( Tenth Amendment to the Labour Code and Fifth Amendment to the Labour Procedure Code ) ( PCP ), 376 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, regulated by Decree-Law No 73 / 2013 of 31 May ( PAN ), 377 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, approved by Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( PAN ), 378 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection against acts of harassment within the framework of labour relations ( NAP ), 379 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( BE ), 380 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP), 381 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( PAN ), and 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the reduction of 10 % to the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of concession ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 619 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 11 -A / 2017 of 17 January, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate by the employer ( CFP ), 621 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the collection of tolls in A22 until the completion of the requalification works of EN125 and to the extent that such works close parts or produce substantial constraints on circulation ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 622 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review Order No 13 531 / 2009 of 9 June in order to extend the grant scholarship regulation to students of higher professional technical courses ( TESP ) ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 623 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rehabilitation and requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, Agualva — Sintra ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 624 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of judicial costs ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 625 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends approval of an investment programme in the proximity rail network and recovery of quality in public public transport ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 626 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government requalify and modernize the Vouga Line by connecting it to the North Line ( in Espinho ) and including it in the 2016 - 2020 Railway Investment Plan ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 628 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reorganise the provision of public administration services ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 629 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue the process of achieving decentralization in the field of health, education and culture through the conclusion of inter-administrative contracts ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 630 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish shared service centres and value added at the level of inter-municipal entities ( PSDs ), which fall to 11. the Commission. Parliamentary inquiry No 5/ XIII ( 2 ) was also included in the Bureau, and was not admitted. ( a ) — Extension of the object of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank, constituted by Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 122 / 2016 of 1 July ( PSD and CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u3	Mrs. Members, let us then begin the assessment of Decree-Law No 11 -A / 2017 of 17 January, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate by the employer[ Parliamentary assessments 30 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) and 29 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rise of the minimum wage is a fundamental measure of economic and social justice. The Block has been beaten by this increase in the minimum wage and by the political solution that guarantees it today. The commitment to bring the 600 € in this Parliament is one of the foundations of this solution. in the agreement signed between the Left Block and the Socialist Party, we set annual minimum standards to achieve this goal. This concrete commitment was an essential guarantee against all kinds of internal and external pressures. The fact is that, shielded against these pressures, the increase of €27 per month in this year's minimum wage has been in force since 1 January. Not everyone in this Parliament has agreed to this increase. When the government, and quite well, decreed it, the PSD expressed itself against considering €557 an excessive value in relation to economic indicators. For PSD, as in fact for employers' confederations, 557 € per month is an exaggeration. When the PSD defends this position, it speaks on behalf of whom? How many of us, who sit here, imagine living with 557 € monthly, that is, with about 490 € liquid per month— 490 € to pay the house, the light, the water, the transportation, the food, the expenses of the children, everything! For those who work eight hours a day, five days a week, in a call center or in a supermarket box, in a quarry or in an explanation center, 557 € is not much, it is even very little. It is not, in fact, a coincidence that Portugal has such offensive rates of poor workers. in our country, one in ten workers, even with a job and a salary, lives below the poverty threshold. The increase in the minimum wage is an essential element of combating late wages and poverty, which is always a violation of human rights, and is also a victory for economic wisdom against the irresponsibility of impoverishment. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the increase in the minimum wage is good for the economy, because it contributes to job creation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u6	Just look at what happened in 2016, the year in which the minimum wage rose 5 % for the first time: less 68 000 unemployed and more 92 000 jobs than in the previous year. Increasing the minimum wage does not affect productivity, nor does exports, which increased 6 % last year, nor does it destroy any jobs, as shown by the experience we already have, benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, because it stimulates the domestic demand they depend on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u8	in fact, for economic and social justice reasons, this increase in the minimum wage must be deepened, because it is only a small part of the return to which workers are entitled. If the minimum wage had been updated every year, taking into account inflation and productivity, instead of being frozen, as happened between 2011 and 2014, it would be today at about 900 €. We have a long way to go. Secondly, with the changes to labour legislation promoted by the PSD and the CDS in 2012, a single penalty and with one law, an unprecedented transfer of EUR 2300 million from workers'wealth to employers was made. This devaluation of work was achieved by increasing unpaid working time, reducing to half the price of extraordinary hours, eliminating compensatory breaks or values associated with the expiry of contracts. This increase in the minimum wage is therefore also only part of the compensation that is due to the workers and has been withdrawn from their salary for the benefit of the employer's accumulation. For all these reasons, it would be wrong and foolish to keep track of the rise in the minimum wage of a reduction in the TSU (unique social rate) of employers who opt for low-wage policies. Of course, because it is not acceptable to de-responsibility of companies and to place taxpayers, through the State budget, or workers, through social security, to pay for the increase in the minimum wage, which is a duty of those who hire. But for two more reasons. As a policy to support the economy, the decree we are considering today is wrong, because it is an incentive to low wages and a benefit given to all businesses — large, medium or small — provided they have the option to pay minimum wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u10	Public policies for productive development and job creation should promote exactly the opposite choice by companies. As a policy to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, this decree would not only be wrong but would be a completely discriminatory mistake. in fact, the TSU discount provided for in the decree does not target small and medium-sized enterprises, it is a prize given to that part of the small and medium-sized enterprises that opt for a low-paid policy, thus punishing small and medium-sized enterprises that make the effort to pay more decent wages to people, that is, just those that we should value — purely and simply, does not make sense. The problem of small and medium-sized enterprises is not wages, which, on average, represent about 20 % of their production costs, against about twice as much as the cost of context, energy or communications. in fact, small and medium-sized enterprises need domestic consumption and therefore the increase in wages is good news. what they do not need is an excessive energy bill, an abusive special payment on account (ECP) or a credit policy that charges them interest above what they can pay. None of these measures, useful and necessary, should be a counterpart for the increase in the minimum wage, nor can it become a premium given to the low-wage policy of some companies. So this debate is about one thing: is the decree establishing the benefit of the TSU discount as a currency of exchange for the increase in the minimum wage a good measure or not? in our view, this decree is unjust and wrong. It must be annulled, and this is the objective of this legislative debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This too is not a debate on the Left Block, on the PCP, on the Greens, on the joint positions they have signed with the Socialist Party or on the anxieties of another commentator. The decline of the employer TSU is not part of any commitment between these parties, which is part of a income recovery policy, capable of stopping the impoverishment that was the strategy of the PSD and the CDS for the country. This path has been made and needs to continue to be deepened. We want to develop it with the loyalty, commitment and frontality of always. There is no surprise, no change, no novelty about it. The only novelty is even the PSD pirouette. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This debate is also not about social dialogue, although it is worth remembering that the decree we are considering today did not deserve the subscription of the total social partners, because it is the agreement of one of the partners against the other, and this greatly weakens its legitimacy. In fact, contrary to what happened in 2005, when we worked and reached an agreement between trade unions and employers for the increase in the minimum wage, this time there was a lame agreement, wounded in representativeness, which ignored the largest trade union center and its proposals. in the context in which we live, this is particularly wrong, because we never as much as today need to give a sign on the importance of negotiation between the partners and, in particular, on the main instrument of this negotiation, which is called collective bargaining, which is the foundation of labour democracy. in reality, over the past few years, at the same time as political leaders fill their mouths with the supposed enhancement of social consultation, they dismantled, in practice, the most important and most powerful mechanism of this consultation, which is the system of collective labour relations. The imbalance introduced, in particular with the lapse of collective labour conventions and the precariousness of labour relations, has corroborated any possibility of serious negotiation, because it replaced it by the imposition of one's interests on the rights of others. Without restoring balance in the relationship between partners, respect for negotiation between the parties will only be « word to fill ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's debate is about a concrete measure: the discount on the TSU. The decision we have to make today is only one: the measure should or should not be annulled. Portugal is a democracy based on the sovereign will of the people, that this Parliament is an expression. in a democracy, there are no corporate chambers, and no cults with veto over legislative power. in a democracy, economic power is subject to political power and popular sovereignty. Today, and here, the Left Block assumes the Republican and democratic responsibility of its mandate. Today, and here, we reaffirm our commitment always to those who live in your work and struggle for the dignity of your salary. Today, and here, we have decided faithfully to our programme and to ensure that our positions are always transparent. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decision taken by the Government to offer the reduction of TSU as an exchange currency or as opposed to the increase in the national minimum wage must today be repealed by the Assembly of the Republic because it is a wrong and harmful measure to workers and because it is the Government and the Assembly of the Republic which are responsible for making decisions on labour. The decision of this and other matters of labour law is neither the competence nor responsibility of social consultation, it is the responsibility of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic to use its own powers as provided for by the Constitution. [[PCP applause.]] The increase in national minimum wage is a requirement of dignity and should not have been offset beyond the work provided by each worker. The work provided by each worker is more than enough to justify much more than the minimum wage. Even if the increase is greater, each worker continues to be extracted part of his or her work, which reverts to the capital. Nothing justifies that, in addition, money from the State Budget is still being used. at the same time, the reduction of TSU means the government's option to stimulate the policy of low wages. It is also noted that the Government, depending on the decision of the social consultation on the minimum wage as well as other matters, is not only fulfilling its functions as a limitation of the powers of the Assembly of the Republic and assigning a kind of veto right to employers' confederations. They are more than enough reasons to defeat this measure and therefore the CFP has called for the parliamentary review of the Government's diploma and proposes the cessation of its operation. The stimulus to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises with a reduction or elimination of the CFP or with the decrease in energy costs has its own weighting and justification and cannot be considered to be offset by the increase in wages. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in our country, almost a third of the people in poverty are workers whose wages are not enough for basic expenses. It is no novelty for anyone that the low wages, in particular the value of the national minimum wage, are the structural cause of poverty. The national minimum wage is a conquest of the April Revolution. It happens that over the decades it has been profoundly devalued. Between 2011 and 2014 it was frozen and the latest available data point to more than 648 000 workers to survive with the national minimum wage. If it had been updated, considering inflation and productivity increase, today would be around €1200 per month, as demonstrated by the CGTP in the documents delivered to parliamentary groups in the Assembly of the Republic. We value the rise in the minimum wage to €557, but it is clearly insufficient because it does not allow the recovery of purchasing power and the fight against poverty, making Portugal maintain one of the lowest national minimum wages in Europe, even taking into account the 14-month remuneration, and is at risk of further delaying, particularly with regard to Spain. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reduction of the TSU, the repeal of which the CFP proposes, when offered as a currency of exchange due to the increase in the minimum wage, expresses a repeated and flagrant example of incentive to low-wage policy. The reduction in TSU represents an incentive to hire workers with minimum wages, as evidenced by the increase in the number of workers taking this salary, and contributes to the stagnation or absorption of other wage grids, in particular those provided for in collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u14	Reducing corporate contributions to social security when hiring workers who pay the minimum wage represents a declared incentive to low-wage policy. The reduction in TSU represents a form of financing to companies, de-sponsiblying them to fulfil an obligation that is exclusively theirs, which is the payment of workers' wages to their service, transferring that responsibility to the State budget, in particular to the social security budget. The scope of this measure has been extended successively since 2014. All types of employment contracts continue to be covered, provided they are concluded before that date. The reduction now applies to companies whose workers, between October and December 2016, have received a monthly average base salary between €530 and €557. The reduction is also extended to companies where workers increase wage values up to €700, provided that the difference for the basic remuneration results from the provision of additional or night work. It should also be said that this reduction in TSU covers all companies, regardless of their size and sector of activity, including temporary and large enterprises. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The assignment to blackmail of the employer, which requires compensation for the increase in the national minimum wage, is unacceptable, and does not even find any economic justification, insofar as remuneration is only 18 % in the cost structure of companies, much less than other costs, such as energy, fuel, telecommunications, credit or insurance. at the same time, it is precisely to ensure a fairer distribution of wealth, to combat poverty and dynamize the economy that the increase to 600 € of the national minimum wage is so important. The increase in national minimum wage is a requirement for social justice, for a more fair distribution of wealth, but also for economic reasons, for increased purchasing power, for the dynamisation of the economy and the internal market, and for strengthening the financing of social security. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, PSD opportunism may have a positive effect on the lives of workers, but this does not erase the fact that the real motivation of PSD is against the increase in minimum wage. But this is an inconsistency that the PSD will have to solve. from the PCP side we are, as we have been and how we will be on the workers' side of their struggle for better living conditions and for a more just and sovereign country. [[PCP, Os Verdes and BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u15	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This debate and Parliament's decision to revoke the Government's decision only exists because the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block so desired. [[All right!]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u17	Many have claimed explanations to the PSD. The PSD does not hide and clarify its positions. But let's get to the point. The Prime Minister, the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block must explain to the Portuguese. The Prime Minister signed an agreement in the social consultation in which he imposed the update of the national minimum wage that he met with the Left Block. He did it when he already knew that his parliamentary coalition partners did not support him. Let's ask: Why? Why did the Prime Minister do so? Was it to open a war within the management? The Prime Minister has made the Government's word aware that he could not comply with it. What respect does the Prime Minister have for the social partners? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u18	Who explains this lightness? What is the political significance of the Prime Minister's conduct? Is it a confession of lack of authority? Is it a confession of disability? What value does the Prime Minister of Portugal have from now on? [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The Prime Minister, the Government and the Socialist Party have much to explain to the Portuguese, and they have to say without lukewarmness. The Prime Minister now signs, voluntarily and consciously, agreements that he knows he can't fulfill? Oh, my God! Or was it your parliamentary allies who broke his rope? Mrs. Members of the majority, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, take advantage of the opportunity and speak less about the PSD, respond, quit tricks. [[PS protests.]] Everyone owes an explanation to the Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block must also explain! [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]] by bringing these parliamentary assessments here to, in fact, have now been assumed, to revoke decisions of the government, what do the Communist Party and the Left Block want? Do you intend to remove the carpet from the government? Oh, my God! Is this what the PCP and the Left Block want? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u19	There was never that carpet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u20	Are you telling the country that they are no longer available to support government policies? Is this what you mean to the country? [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] The PCP and the Left Block have to answer the country and they have to answer these questions, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is to disagree with the government — and it is even legitimate that even parties that support the government may have differences. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u21	Another thing that is quite different is to want to repeal the decisions of the government, because that is not to diverge, it is « to remove the carpet » to the government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, have you given up on the government? Or are they simply available to support what is pleasant and popular? You really have to say! What do you want with the PCP and the Left Block? Are they only available for half-decisions? This majority, which is said to be cohesive, stable and lasting, is a majority of socks, in which each one only appears in the part that is popular? Is that what this majority is? Ladies and gentlemen. Members: To be popular, the Prime Minister assumes what he cannot accomplish—it is a half-decision of the Prime Minister himself. To be popular, the PCP and the Left Block pretend that they only respond by half-decision. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we're going to leave us half-skinned, be decorated! So, are the opportunists us? Oh, my God! [[Exactly!]] [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u22	Your Government's solution is itself a hymn to political opportunism. [[PSD applause.]] [[Yes! It's obvious!]] [[Yes! It's obvious!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u23	And the cluster of opportunism is now all — all in the majority, without exception — not to have the hombresity to respond to this government solution. They are all—all in the majority, Socialist Party, Portuguese Communist Party and Left Block—who have to respond! Mrs. Members of the majority, the time is yours, the time is yours! Speak, converse, meet, build your common positions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u24	Don't make beer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u25	But take your responsibilities and fulfill what they promised the country! Are they or are they not a cohesive, stable, and lasting majority? Your political opportunism—...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u26	Look at the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u27	... I repeat, your political opportunism—is critical. But intolerable will be that they make it up to the most basic boy-spertism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD is where it has always been. [[Hello?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u28	The PSD is in the political truth, explaining and basing its positions. When we updated the national minimum wage in 2014, after the 2010 socialist freeze and the impositions our creditors had on us, we were clear, we were true and we were consequence: we established an agreement in social consultation, but none of the partners of our coalition came to Parliament to question the agreement we had made in social consultation. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u29	None of the coalition partners in 2014 came to Parliament « take the carpet » to the Government. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u30	We encouraged the creation and maintenance of employment, following the economic recovery of the country, which was leaving the recession and which was planning the recovery of income that had been lost in the meantime. Yes, we've updated the national minimum wage! It's true! And we promote a temporary decline of the single social rate,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u31	... applicable to lower wages. True, we have done so, with truth and clarity. [[I didn't want to!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u32	And under three conditions, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. First condition: the measure was truly exceptional and temporary. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u33	Second condition: it was expressly enshrined that subsequent updates of the national minimum wage had to meet, as should, the growth of the economy, price developments and productivity gains. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Third condition: the measure was exclusively supported by the State budget and did not prejudice or penalise pensioners. That is, everyone knew that the PSD did not want to stimulate low wages,... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u34	That's anecdotal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u35	... everyone knew that the PSD did not want to penalise social security and everyone knew that the PSD path was, and that is, to intervene in economic policies with measures of fiscal competitiveness and investment promotion. Perpetuating this measure, as this government does, is a mistake. Abandoning the economy, as this government does, bringing fiscal instability and discouraging investment, as this government does, all this is a political mistake, it is a social error and it is an economic error. The revenge of this majority and the mistrust that this revenge has already brought to the Portuguese economy, yes, are a real obstacle to wage improvement. And don't come — don't come! — with that child argument that we are against the increase in national minimum wage. [[They're, they're, they're, they're, ……]] [[They're, they're, they're, they're, ……]] [[They're, they're, they're, they're, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u36	Oh, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what childishness! But does anyone think that any politician or party would not like to propose an even greater update of the national minimum wage? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] If it were in our sphere of intervention to decree the national minimum wage of 1000 € or 1500 €, then wouldn't we decree it? I'm sure you will, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure you will! [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] [[No, no!]] [[No, no!]] [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u37	Don't be demagogues!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u38	That's not the problem, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. It is that you want to have such a popular part, to increase the national minimum wage, but then you do not want to bear what is the consequences of that decision and then you do not want to respond because you have no basis to explain that increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u39	It should already be in the 900 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u40	If the gentlemen. Members were fulfilling the growth of the economy that they say, and they were saying that Portugal would have perhaps not needed to be here today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And the same is true for the government — and I no longer say for the Socialist Party and for the familiar economic plan of those 12 economists — because, if we had this economic growth, then surely the national minimum wage would be over €557. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, may the honourable Members. Members of the majority speak very loudly and yell a lot, but the PSD is even a coherent and responsible party. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] And don't count on us for simulations. Don't count on us for your politicism. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u41	The'management' is yours. You're the ones who have to move -- and move in the right direction. Make your assessment of consistency as well. Is the PCP and the Left Block consistent with the government, which only exists because they have guaranteed permanent, stable and lasting support in Parliament? Is that consistent? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]] [[PCP protests.]] And it is consistent that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, boasts, as he did here in the last fortnight's debate, the coherence of the CFP and the Left Block, when they do — to him, Prime Minister — contrary to what they promised? Oh, my God! How is this possible? Oh, my God! And the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen applaud, either the PS or the PCP, or the Left Block? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, enough lightness and enough tricks. [[Aldrabics!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u42	The government is yours. And the engagement is yours, too. They can even show your differences. They can even — and should perhaps — claim your own identities. I've already said, and I repeat: it's legitimate and even healthy. But save time and save effort for the Portuguese: take your choices and respond to your choices. The Portuguese do not deserve to play with what is the governance of the country and with what is our future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u43	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Mr José Moura Soeiro, BE, and Nuno Magalhães, CDS-PP. Mr Luís Montenegro, how would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u44	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u45	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u46	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, the first question is simple: did you not hear the interventions that preceded yours? It is that the answers to your questions were in these interventions. But then we can send them to the PSD bench. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I have two more questions for the honourable Member. The first concerns the PSD's position on the national minimum wage and on the increase in the national minimum wage made this year, because, in the midst of so much rhetoric, there was something that was not clear. It is because Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, responding to the Government's proposal of €557, made in social consultation, said in December last year, that is, less than a month ago, that this value was excessive because he did not take account of the increases in productivity and therefore was against that value, was against the increase in national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u48	This statement even ignores some economic data. For example, if we take into account the evolution of the national minimum wage in real terms and only the value of inflation, the €557 put the national minimum wage below today what would be its value compared to 1975. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u49	This statement also ignores the studies of the social partners, which show that, if we had taken into account the changes in the economy, the national minimum wage today would not be €557 but €900. The PSD is against the increase in national minimum wage,... [[No, it's not!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u50	...not for economic reasons but for political reasons. [[It's not!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u51	It is the ideological prejudice of the PSD against the increase in wages and the devaluement of work. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you another question regarding the PSD position on TSU. The PSD, Mr Deputies said, is in favour of the increase in wages — finally, a joke in the debate—and also spoke of the TSU. But in April 2015 the PSD leader Pedro Passos Coelho said: « Today, the cost of work is still very high. This was perhaps the only reform we could not complete". Elevated, Mr. Deputy? Oh, my God! In April 2015? The costs of work? Oh, my God! The wages people receive? Oh, my God! [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u52	in fact, he referred to a measure which he had not been able to implement, which was the measure contained on page 58 of the PSD electoral programme and which said: « The PSD defends the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, in particular by reducing the social burden on the work factor at TSU, while at the same time compensating social security ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u54	Mr President, these were the reforms to reduce the value of work and to reduce the employer's TSU, which the PSD regretted had not yet been able to complete and which, fortunately, were interrupted. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We know, Mr President, that it is not by principle that the PSD today leads the discount on the TSU of the bosses, because in this debate it is clear that the PSD has no principles. The question I ask you, then, is this: what led the PSD to give this pirouette? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u55	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luís Montenegro, I would like to tell you that we follow the diagnosis and analysis of this debate and what this debate means. First of all, it is important to denounce that this debate is, I would say, the greatest act of the theatre, of the stagnation that the Left Block and the PCP have tried to do, by deceiving the country, by passing the Portuguese for fools, since they are in the government pretending they are not. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u57	They've got days! When it's good they're not good they're not. This is the first conclusion which has become clear today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u58	Sancho comes in defense of Quixote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u59	The second conclusion is that there is not the so-called parliamentary majority that, over the course of this time, these parties have been saying there is. I would remind you that, in an extraordinary political and arithmetic construction, these parties say they won the elections. Why? Because they had the majority. Where is she? This is the first question, Mr President: where is she? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]] Come on in!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u60	Not today, not today!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u61	The third conclusion, Mr Deputies, and the most serious one for the country, is that from today on the word of the Prime Minister of Portugal, the word of the Government, when he proposes, when he negotiates, when he agrees whatever it is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u62	When you sign...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u63	...when you sign with anyone whatever it is, it doesn't serve strictly anything. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u64	It was in the hands of Catarina Martins and Jerome of Sousa. The Prime Minister's word has to be ratified by these two parties and this is the most serious and has the greatest effect on the country. Then you admire Mr Luís Montenegro, and I do not know whether you agree with me, that the interest in public debt is as it is. Look what a sad show of our country that foreign investors are watching today! Our Prime Minister's word depends on parties that do not have more than 20 % in elections. This must also be unmasked today, Mr President. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u65	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to let the speaker ask the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u66	I'll be right there, Mr. João Oliveira. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] I'll be right there, sir! I'll get you. I'll get you. Do you want to see? You want to see how I'm going? Mr Luís Montenegro, we remember well, perhaps we are the two witnesses of more cases of disagreement for four years between two political parties. You see, you see, Mr. João Oliveira? We are witnesses of this, we know that they were many and that they were difficult! Portugal went through a period of very long economic and financial assistance, with measures that none of us wanted to present, which none of us wanted to agree on. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] But there is a difference between the CDS and the PSD and the PCP and the Left Block: when national interest is at stake, we make our differences convergences, while they defend their interests and their customers! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u67	Is the interest of workers not the national interest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u68	That is it, Mr. João Oliveira, which is to have a sense of state! Now, to conclude, Mr Luís Montenegro, contrary to what the Left Block and the CFP want to believe, this is not a debate on the national minimum wage. But let's talk about it, because it's good to end political hypocrisy today, especially the Socialist Party. Mr Luís Montenegro, is it or not true that it was the Socialist Party which, through the Memorandum of Understanding, frozen the possible rise of the national minimum wage? [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u69	It is or not true that it was the PSD and the CDS that expelled the troika,... [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u70	Did they get kicked out? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u71	...have rescued Portugal, returned sovereignty and, at the first opportunity, increased the minimum wage? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u72	Nuno Magalhães, the gallop on a white horse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u73	We, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, when the national interest is at stake, let's not hesitate, let's put the national interest forward... [[Protests by the MEP of BE Isabel Pires and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] You will hear again, Mr. João Oliveira : when the national interest is concerned, the CDS puts the national interest forward up to what it defended, does not put the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers)! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u74	You have the floor to answer Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr José Soeiro and Mr Nuno Magalhães. I was beginning to tell Mr. José Soeiro that I realized your effort. The honourable Member was wondering if he would convince me not to vote in favour of your proposal for an end to the rule of law. I'd give you a lot better, I wouldn't, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u76	No, we're satisfied!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u77	It is true that the Members of the Left Block and the Communist Party were very disturbed by the position of the PSD, in accordance with their position!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u78	You didn't hear what we said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u79	It's a remarkable thing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! You take this as a joke, but this is not a joke, Mr. José Soeiro. In fact, he talks a lot about the PSD and I asked him to tell us what the Left Block thinks about the government's action. I'll remind you of something. on 12 November 2015, Dr. António Costa, Prime Minister, said the following about the Government's solution : « The government will not have the indelicacy to approve initiatives in hostility with the parties that support it (... ) ». Mr. Deputies, is this what happened? Is this what happened? Was Mr. Prime Minister rude to the Left Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u80	That's right! [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u81	Or did the Left Block intend to simulate a divergence and was it expecting the PSD to save the situation?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u82	Now...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u83	Yes, Mr. José Soeiro, that fell to the ground, didn't it? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That is the political issue, that is the question of political accountability! You have to respond, as the Government and the Socialist Party have to respond. They are all responsible, because this government exists not only because the Portuguese wanted it and wanted it but because you decided for them, when, after the elections, they brought the traps together and thought that this was a project for the country, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] His words were also very elucidative, because, truly, you come here today to affirm and confess that you do not have a common project for Portugal. The only project that joins you is to oppose PSD and CDS-PP. That is the only source of union of this parliamentary majority! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But, Mr Soeiro, the issue is not only political, it is also economic. And the honourable Member sails in a number of misconceptions about this, because we defend the updating of the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u84	Just don't practice it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u85	Maybe you don't know, but it was PSD governments that made 20 — 20! — increases in the national minimum wage in Portugal, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u86	You're here. Look at this. [[Currently, PSD Member Marco António Costa displayed a table on the progression of the national minimum wage.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u87	And they frozen him for three years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u88	The honourable Member does not give us lessons in what he does in making choices to strengthen people's incomes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u89	They need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u90	... particularly those with lower incomes. Now, the honourable Member is responsible for the choices that make it impossible and impossible for this increase to be a reality in the future. Do you know why we were from 2010 to 2014 without updating the national minimum wage? Because of the policies, which are very equivalent to those that are being defended today, of the Socialist Party from 2005 to 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u91	Policies that you now support!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u92	I thought it was because of the PSD/CDS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u93	It was because of this, Mr. Member, that was not for lack of will! It wasn't for lack of will! If Mr Soeiro takes care to make the economy grow, if he no longer has the ideological complexes he has, in which he is accompanied either by the Socialist Party — see good! — either even by the Communist Party, if it had not had the vindictive attitude to reverse reforms that were taking effect on the economy and job creation................................................................................................... [[In the economy!]] [[In the economy!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u94	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u95	Bringing about a decline effect!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u96	Oh, didn't you realize that we're growing less now than we're growing up in 2015? You didn't understand that, sir? Oh, my God! [[No, you didn't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u97	What part did you not understand, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! You know this has an explanation: it has to do with the policy that the government has been following and that you have also imposed on your partners. You have to realize that you want more income for people and for families, we all want,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u98	Some do it, others don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u99	...the question is who builds a solution that sustains it in the medium and long term. You are very popular in defending today's increases, but then you run away when you have to assume responsibility for impeding these increases tomorrow! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] And that, Mr José Soeiro, should make you think. Mr. Deputies and his bench have the responsibility to support the government, but they have a greater responsibility, to make the country grow more,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u100	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u101	... to make the economy more dynamic, to create more jobs, to make the country more competitive, more productive and — yes! — have real conditions to defend what you stand for. You defend — and well! — that the national minimum wage should not be subsidized, it should not be the State to give the economy what it is unable to generate to have a income policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u102	Like you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u103	But the honourable Member should learn that and should not stand by to see that things happen just because they have to happen. No, they do not happen that way, Mr. We need to stimulate investment, we need to be attractive, we need to focus on the competitiveness factors in the economy that can attract the capacity of the economy to generate jobs. And here the honourable Member fails, the government fails, the majority fails, your project fails, which is, after all, as I told you, only to oppose the PSD. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by members of BE Joana Mortágua and Jorge Duarte Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u104	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today comes to Parliament's assessment of the decree-law which has implemented an exceptional and temporary measure to reduce the social contributions of companies relating to workers who today receive the minimum wage, which is part of a social agreement concluded on 22 December, with a view to the medium term and which covers, in fact, several other matters. Let's wait, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at least until the end of today's debate, it is clear to all of us what the position of each of you is. Members, not only on this temporary and exceptional measure but mainly on the decision of which it derives, the decision to increase the national minimum wage in 2017 to €557, an increase, this yes, definitive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Indeed, there is something strange in this debate: the fact that at least the greater party to the opposition did not have the courage to say publicly, in a clear and transparent way, within the 20 minutes that you have already used, what seems to think of your maximum leader: this increase should not occur. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a clarification that needs to be made and that continues to be done! Mrs. Members, say, once and for all, whether they are against or in favour of the increase of the minimum wage to 557 € in 2017! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[They're against it!]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u106	Answer this simple question. But it is important to make clear some truths, other uncomfortable truths — uncomfortable for some — like this one. This increase in the minimum wage was negotiated and freely accepted without blackmail in consultation. In a letter publicly disclosed and signed by a PSD Vice-President, the Government is accused of blackmailing the social partners. It is offensive and unworthy to accuse in this way those who take to defend in concert what they consider to be the national interests and interests of their representatives. On the other hand, this reduction in the contribution rate was agreed to involve all sectors, not differentiating anyone, particularly the social sector. contrary to what was stated by the PSD, the social partners or the government never intended to remove the institutions of solidarity and the mercys of this support. Who proposes to remove these institutions from this support is now the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party, which assumes the responsibility of this government, does not accept lessons of commitment and respect for consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u107	Oh, no way!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u108	It was with governments led by the PS that most social agreement agreements were concluded. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]] It was with a PS government that the first agreement on the growth of the minimum wage was concluded. The Government has presented its Programme to this House and has once again fulfilled it by proposing to social dialogue a value for the national minimum wage that is in the Government Programme and by negotiating the conditions for this value to have extended support. It is a priority for the Government to increase the national minimum wage, such as a priority for the maintenance and growth of employment. The increase in national minimum wage is fair and necessary and the social agreement reached is a good agreement for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a balanced agreement that strengthens social cohesion, defends employment, enhances social dialogue and protects social security. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the agreed increase, the national minimum wage increases from 2015 to 2017, around 9, 7% in real terms. For 2017, compared with 2016, the annual net value of the minimum wage was fixed at €6940, plus €336 than in the previous year. It is an important increase, it is even an extraordinary increase and it is a correct increase because it can be absorbed by the Portuguese economy, because it is a decisive tool to combat the poverty of those who work and because it represents a sign of confidence and encouragement for our economy. But we also know that it is an effort and a demanding increase for some companies, particularly the most fragile and smaller ones. That is why a transitional measure to reduce the contribution burden associated with this increase is economically and politically appropriate to help businesses adjust this increase, maintain employment levels and continue to create jobs. If we look at those who benefited from this measure in 2016, we find, in an overwhelming way, small and medium-sized enterprises and especially micro-enterprises. Let the numbers be recorded again, because that is what we are dealing with here today, because it is mainly these companies and these institutions that will benefit from the support that the government has decreed. More than 92 % of support goes to small and medium-sized enterprises — in 2016, were around 100 000 — and 56, 2 % of support goes to enterprises with less than 10 workers, and was 85 000 in 2016. These companies have, on average, three employees at work. of these workers, more than half, about 138 000, receive the national minimum wage. More than 24 000 companies in the trade sector benefited from this support, 11 000 in the area of restoration and 2827 social institutions that, in 2016, with criteria identical to the 2017 agreement, benefited from this support. I repeat, for the most distracted: it was 2827 the private institutions of social solidarity, mercy and mutuality that were beneficial and will benefit, at least, from this support. In general, these companies have a weight of wage costs above national averages for reasons associated with their nature and activity. That is why this support is important. It is that, in these more than 85 000 microenterprises, this increase alone represents an increase in the wage mass close to 3 % — a growth well above inflation, I know - well. And we do not hide reality: this is a way to help these jobs pay better, but it is also a way to help defend the same jobs and help these companies create more jobs, because this is a key priority for the government and the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been said that this is a way of decapitalizing social security. It is not true and for two reasons: because social security will be compensated for this lack of revenue and because the positive effects on defence and job creation always turn to the sustainability of social security accounts. That is why the measure to degrade the contribution costs of the lowest wages is applied in several countries as a way to support the sustainability of these jobs without jeopardizing social security. Yes, this is an exceptional and transitional measure, as is exceptional and transitional, the size of the growth in the value of the national minimum wage that we are now implementing. This rate of exceptional increase—just look at the history of the real growth of the minimum wage over the past few decades— fully justifies this timely and transitional support for the wage costs that companies are facing. Therefore, it is not true, it is a lie, that it is the State to bear the cost of these increases. I remember the numbers: the increase in cost per job would be 37 €. With the measure being assessed today, the cost for companies will be 30 € per month. Of course, there are always those who prefer to evaluate the decisions that today the Assembly of the Republic will take by forgetting all the substance, forgetting all the rest and valuing the supposed excellence of the political coup, of the parliamentary tactic, of the convenience of the moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] There are those who take delight in the triumph of the tactic on the substance, the blow on coherence, the need for the moment of a party leadership on what really matters to workers and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This is seen for those who are stuck in an unsanitary mud of contradictions between what they did and what they claim to do, between what they said weeks ago and what they say now. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u109	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u110	The PSD decided to concentrate all its energy, and to prove something that was already proved and assumed by everyone: the Left Block, the Communist Party, the Greens Ecological Party and the Socialist Party do not have the same positions on all matters. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD wanted to prove what it is, but it ends up demonstrating something much more important: today's PSD does not have the same position as yesterday's PSD, but especially today's PSD has no position on something as important for the country as what we are discussing today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are already those who have identified these political pirouettes as a wall on the table in the opposition marasmos, but attention: this wall on the table is truly an attack on the conciliation and criminalization of tens of thousands of companies and institutions. I repeat: it is an attack on the consultation and criminalization of tens of thousands of companies and institutions! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since time will not fail to prove, this is not a wall on the table, but it will certainly be a colossal shot on the foot. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u111	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered, to request clarification, Mr. Members of BE, PSD, Os Verdes and CDS-PP. How do you intend to respond, Minister? Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security — Two to two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u112	That being the case, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u113	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, it is necessary to demystify some issues in the debate, in particular we know who benefits from the reduction in TSU. It has been said — and still today — that this measure will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. Now, we know that this is not so, because, by analyzing the Portuguese business fabric and the type of employment that exists in our country, we have found that those who pay the most low wages are the large groups. For example, callcenters and large commercial areas are two areas where the profits of large companies have grown every year, but those who work receive from the lowest wages in the country and have precarious working links. in the cleaning sector — this is another example — there are today about 35 000 workers and workers who earn the national minimum wage and are in large companies. Now, we speak of a universe of hundreds of thousands of workers and workers for whom this measure is actually benefiting large companies, but above all, it is rewarding those who practice low wages and precarious work. As for the future, and with the growth trajectory that has had the minimum wage, maintaining the discount balance in the TSU is even more encouraging companies to pay the minimum wage to be covered by this discount. In this respect, Minister, there should be no illusions. More: it is also a benefit for companies that promote precariousness. Temporary enterprises, for example, are those who pay the minimum wage most in Portugal. Therefore, this reduction in TSU would be an incentive for these companies and their recurrent practices. Does not the Minister think that, in a country where the minimum wage is still low, giving compensation to employers to continue practicing these low wages is counterproductive with the objective of combating precariousness and economic growth? I am referring now to an issue which has already been discussed and which is very important to us: effective aid to companies. We well know of the difficulties that Portuguese companies, above all those of small and medium size, have had in terms of the lack of incentives for economic growth. however, it is false to say that the problem is on the side of wages and, in particular, the national minimum wage. Wages represent less than 20 % of production costs in Portugal, and in addition the Portuguese minimum wage is the lowest in Western Europe. If we compare, for example, the costs that companies have with energy, communications and telecommunications, we see that these elements have a weight of 40 % in their accounts, which contradicts the less than 20 % in their wages. This is something where we could have policies to develop and grow our economy. It is about this that we are available to debate. We do not want to promote a low-wage economy, we want to build an economy that values wages, distributes wealth and creates progress. So, Minister, is the government available to hold a debate on the construction of a growing economy and that it values wages and not to make a back-up debate, like the fall of the TSU in exchange for the rise of the minimum wage? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u114	Mr Adam Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u115	Mr President, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, has just made an intervention of a final cynicism and a cry for omission. On the finished cynicism, I give three examples. You said there was a negotiation with the social partners. There wasn't! There was an imposition on the social partners, as already happened in 2016 and will happen in 2018 and 2019. V. Ex.a also said several times that this measure was exceptional and temporary. Well, it's exceptional and temporary, but every year. It was in 2016, will be in 2017 and has already been announced by the Prime Minister on 23 December, here, which will be in 2018 and 2019. V. Exa also said that this measure, yes, gives sustainability to social security. Then there's the loud omission. You did not really talk about the impact this measure has on the pensions of millions of current pensioners and on pensions of millions of future pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u116	It has zero impact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u117	You should have talked about it, you should have said what happens when a system, such as social security, which is weak, which is in imbalance, sees millions of euros removed from its revenues. That is truly unacceptable, Minister! And you Ex.a owes an explanation to people. You should explain to people who withdraw from the certainty of pensions from the future on behalf of a minimum wage which is clearly unsustainable at present. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u118	VV. They exchange the opportunism of the present for the certainty of the future. And, attention: this is not new in the Government of the Socialist Party! It's not new! It is something that is repeated and I want here to draw attention to history, Minister : in 2010, VV. They stopped fulfilling what they had promised in 2006, which was the increase in the minimum wage. They're done! In 2010, when they last met, VV. They withdrew 1 % of the single social rate without any kind of compensation. They withdrew 1 % of the single social rate of social security money. And in 2010 what happened in social security? Freezing of all pensions. Do you remember, Minister? They took 1 % of the single social rate! They withdrew 1 % of social security revenue and, in that year, frozen all social security pensions. And then, Mr. Minister, from 2012 to 2014 we were saving the country from bankruptcy in which you left it. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u119	We've been saving the country, social security and bankruptcy pensions in which VV. Ex. They left him.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u120	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u121	And now what you are proposing here, seems to be learning nothing from the past, is that they want to repeat, and increasingly, the same dose that led to this uncertainty of pensions of millions of current and future pensioners of social security. My question is only this, Minister : VV. Do you learn nothing from the past, not even when you are the protagonist of that same past? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u122	In response to the two requests for clarification, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u123	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, I understand the reluctance, criticism, the doubts that you have raised in the face of the impact of such a measure. But, honourable Member, what I can answer is with the data, and the data I have presented are those of reality. In 2016, there was a reduction in the single social rate, there were companies that applied for this support, this reduction, we know the companies, we know the numbers and what we've withdrawn from there is that, as I said recently - and I'm not going to apple it and repeat the numbers - the overwhelming majority of these support went to micro and small and medium-sized enterprises and a minimum part for large companies. It's support, I'm not talking in number of companies! Workers who have given rise to this support are, to a great extent, located in very small enterprises, 56 % in enterprises up to 10 workers, and in SMEs more than 85 % or 90 %, unless mistakes are made. So, this is the reality! The reality of the support granted was that it was directed at small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, micro-enterprises. Madam Member, I cannot agree with you either with the reference to wage costs, because these are the average wage costs, they are not all sectors, and that is why there are sectors that are particularly represented in these support and where the weight of wage costs in the added value is much higher and, even in the total costs, in some sectors and in some companies is 40 %. Now, when a company has four and half of its employees receive the minimum wage, this increase has a meaning in the increase in wage costs and this concern about defending this job that moves us. There are problems of another dimension, as you have no doubt mentioned. But this measure is not to solve these problems, it is a step towards helping small businesses and solidarity institutions, in particular, to better adapt to an exceptional increase. We are not talking about a small increase, because that was not our commitment; our commitment in a few years was to produce the largest minimum wage increase in the recent and distant history of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not talking about any increase; we are talking about an exceptional increase! And that is why this measure, if you follow this increase, will always be an exceptional measure—in fact, it has already existed in the past and ended when the conditions imposed upon it have been exceeded. Of course, we do not defend — nor do anyone defend, I think — that this rate of growth of the minimum wage is sustainable in the long term. This is, as many have already said, a political, economic and social option to achieve an extraordinary increase that serves Portugal, which serves Portuguese workers, which does not harm the Portuguese economy and which will not further harm if we have the ability to adopt such a measure that does not remove the essential of the wage effort of companies. Mr Adam Silva, I see that in a short time your thinking about this measure has evolved. I will quote words that I think are yours: « At this moment, what is stronger, that does not mean that it is the dominant...» — there was this care... — «...is the sign of coherence, because in the past we defend this measure». And I could keep quoting.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u124	And he's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u125	Mr President, you are not offending me when you say that the government has imposed on social consultation, it is offending the social partners. He's offending all the social partners... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... that they signed the agreement and signed it, after a negotiation in which there was no imposition of any part. And those who have participated in social dialogue debates know this well! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u126	Mr President, fortunately, it seems — because with these contradictions I no longer know very well — that has finally given the answer: the PSD is against this increase, it considers it...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u127	Excessive!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u128	Excessive! Finally, the missing word. The President of the PSD said that this increase in the minimum wage is excessive! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u129	It's true! It's too much, so you're looking for compensation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u130	They didn't have the same clarity... [[PSD protests.]] So much confusion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! So much confusion! Take it easy! Perhaps it would have been advantageous for them to have had the same clarity when they said, when the issue was under discussion in social consultation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u131	There was no debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u132	... that would be against any transitional and exceptional reduction in the single social rate. But they didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u133	There was no debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u134	They didn't have the clarity to say! [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the contrary, they only gave signs in the opposite direction... in fact, they even asked for the extension of this measure to sectors that already had it! What a great coherence of the greatest political party in the opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u135	And now of Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u136	He well knows that the question he raised about pensions does not make sense, because, as has been stated several times, the social partners in the agreement, and then the Government in the Decree-Law which creates this measure, guaranteed an integral transfer of this potential revenue reduction through the State budget. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares ( PSD ). - That's not true! That's not what you're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u137	We can discuss the measure, but that's... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u138	You have to read the Decree-Law better! He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u139	If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me talk, I'll talk. If you have a bit more calm, you will see that the document says you are applying the law, which you have not done, which requires you to finance by 50 % through the social security budget and 50 % through the State budget, but that, the following year, through the State budget, because a law is necessary in that sense, social security will be compensated in the other 50 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u140	That's not what's there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u141	The gentlemen. Members cannot read this reality; it is not the government's problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u142	He's wrong! That's not what's in Decree-Law!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u143	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u144	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u145	Mr. President, it is for questioning the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u146	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u147	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u148	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u149	Mr President, this is in fact an appeal to the Bureau to request the distribution of a document that I was thinking was not necessary, until he even has the appointment of the Minister who has just spoken in this debate. It is that Article 11. that of the Decree-Law which today is under parliamentary review—and I will turn to read so that there is no doubt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u150	Sir, if you ask to distribute, you won't read...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u151	Mr President, I asked you to read the document because you didn't want to read it. The rule is very clear when it says that this measure is paid by 50 % by the social security budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u152	Mr. Deputy, at your request, we will distribute the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u153	Mr President, I would also like to address an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u154	You have the floor Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u155	Mr President, I would like to ask the PSD Parliamentary Group to deliver to the Bureau, to be distributed, the full Decree-Law, which, in its preamble,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u156	The preamble has no normative value!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u157	... says the government leaves... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u158	Mr. Secretary of State, when a decree is distributed, it is distributed in full.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u159	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I'd like to finish my inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u160	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u161	I would like to ask the PSD to deliver the full Decree-Law to the Bureau, where the Government clearly undertakes to ensure the necessary transfer to deal with the 50% that are transferred through the social security budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u162	The preamble has no normative value!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u163	The PSD Parliamentary Group will bring to the Bureau what it intends to distribute, the Government too, and the documents will be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u165	You have the floor, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u166	Mr President, through the Bureau, I would like to inform you that we shall, in order to be distributed, deliver the entire Decree-Law, with the explanatory statement, with the preamble. I would also like to say one thing that Mr. Secretary of State should know: the normative value that prevails is the value of the articulate! [[PS protests.]] The statement of reasons makes no law, Mr. Secretary of State, you should know! And, as there is a contradiction, what is worth is the letter of the articulated. That's what it's worth. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u167	The Bureau shall distribute the Law Decree at the request of the PSD Parliamentary Group and the Government. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u168	Mr President, Minister, for the interventions that have already been made here today in this debate, it gives me the idea that there is no one who is so afraid of differences between the PS, the PCP, the Bloc and the Greens as well as the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u170	I do not understand this need to say that "they may even have differences legitimately, but please do not show them..." Strange Minister! The PSD and the CDS will once and for all have to get used to one thing: the Assembly of the Republic is no longer a resonance box of the Government. Patience, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD protests.]] Parliament is good for you, and this is proved today! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u171	In addition, when we talk about national minimum wages, it is important to say that even in this Parliament, in its entirety, we might have to divide ourselves into three groups : one group, the PSD and the CDS, which, in good rigour, are not in favour of increasing the national minimum wage, which in 2013 even stated that 485 € of national minimum wage was a relatively low value, see as well as how they interpreted that value! ... — and said at the time in 2013 that they would not lower the national minimum wage. This means that they considered lowering the national minimum wage. And why? Because they thought an increase in the national minimum wage generated unemployment. This is the ideological logic of this group. Then we have another group, the PS and the Block, which agreed that the national minimum wage in 2017 would not go beyond €557. And we have another group, the Greens and the CFP, which has fully argued that at this time we should already be discussing and agreeing on the national minimum wage for a minimum of €600. This is about the national minimum wage. On TSU, Minister, it gives me an idea that I can say that the PS is definitely not in favour of the fall of TSU for companies because, if the PS were in favour of this descent, we would obviously not have put, in the joint position signed with the Greens, what we have placed. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u172	Therefore, it gives me an idea that, convincingly, the only ones in the country who are favorable to the decline of TSU for companies are the bosses and the UGT. So, Minister, perhaps it is worth considering this measure. And what does the government now say? They come to say: « Attention, because this transitional measure, by the end of 2017, benefits micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ». Indeed, Mr Minister, they are the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises themselves who say they are not the most beneficial ones and they themselves say that the most beneficial ones are the major economic groups, namely the call centers, the large distributors, the large hypermarkets. It's the micro, small and medium-sized companies that come to say it! So, Minister, there's something here that, with the Greens, can't be. We are not going to talk about compensation for the increase in national minimum wage, because if we talk about compensation, yes! , Minister, how long has it been implemented... According to CGTP numbers, if all the factors competing for the increase of the national minimum wage had always been applied, we would currently be discussing a national minimum wage of the order of 900 €. Do you want to make up for these major groups more, Minister? Oh, my God! It's not worth it! Well, then, what do the Greens have to say? We want to talk about support for micro, small and medium-sized companies... let's talk about it! How many times have we called on the Government to do this, including in the last State budget, with proposals we have put forward? Oh, my God! Are we going to discuss support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to boost the economy of this country and generate more employment, Minister? Oh, my God! Of course! Support lines, credit lines, special payment on behalf, Minister! Are we going to talk about other production costs, particularly at the energy level? Oh, my God! Yeah, let's talk! Let us put forward proposals for support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises! We're here to pack your sleeves and work on that. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u173	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u174	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, I believe that if there is a word that describes the debate we are having here this afternoon, not to mention what we have had in recent weeks, it is a scene. In fact, we had a first phase in which the Government was playing social dialogue — that is the expression — and that basically ended with the Prime Minister of Portugal signing an agreement that was already tired of knowing that he could not comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u176	Next, we had the other parties that supported their government — the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens — playing with governments and the opposition. On Mondays and Tuesdays they are parties supporting the government, on Wednesdays and Thursdays they are opposition, then on Fridays they again support the government. Therefore, Mr Minister, I think that he has indeed made a great contribution to the qualification of this debate, because the Minister has made a defense in the rostrum, and it is understandable that he does so, of the increase in the national minimum wage. Mr Minister, when Mr Minister was part of a government that led Portugal near the bankruptcy and when he was a negotiator with the troika and proceeded to freeze the national minimum wage, did he remember to use one tenth of the conviction he used today in the rostrum to prevent this freezing? Oh, my God! Did you remember, Minister? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] And you're going to the rostrum to talk about consistency? Oh, my God! So, what coherence is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u177	It's always the incoherence!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u178	Is the Minister himself negotiating a memorandum that provides for the freezing of the national minimum wage that now comes here to defend its increase and accuse others of inconsistency? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, that seems a bit strange to me. And I also find it a little strange in a government where Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs stated, five days ago, that "the PS will never need the right to govern"... Mr. Secretary of State, then today, what are we doing here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u179	Toying with Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u180	It must be a scene! If they do not need and can rule, feel with the parties on the left, talk and rule! More government and less theater! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] This isn't all going on in a huge show! But it is absolutely surprising that, in a debate on this subject, there has not yet been a word for the many thousands of companies which, on 25 January, in Portugal, have no idea how they will be processing wages and paying taxes in February. And this, yes, is very worrisome! It is in this real country that works that the CDS is focused and, therefore, Minister, the CDS will never cooperate in creating more problems over those you have created. But it is certainly up to the government and the parties who supported it to assume their responsibilities, because you told the Portuguese that they had a majority and agreed essentially. Therefore, if this question on which they do not agree is not essential, it comes to theatres, if this issue is essential, then please remove consequences. And the consequences are far more serious than a debate and three or four press conferences. Be successful! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u181	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the questions. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, what I have done here, from the point of view of the impact of transitional measures to reduce the single social rate, was merely to report the facts. There may be very diverse interpretations, opinions, analyses, everything we want, of all associations, which will say that they represent what they understand, but the facts, the behaviour of small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises was different. It was not automatic, Mrs Deputy, that they asked for this support, by a very large majority. I would like to say again, Mrs Deputies, that this fact cannot be forgotten: by a very large majority, it was these companies that considered it important for them to apply for a reduction in the single social rate, in view of the increase in the national minimum wage. I know that this is difficult to fit into all our discussions, but it is the reality, Mrs Deputies. We will have an opportunity to discuss other matters, but I would also like to say to you, Madam Member, that the PS remains completely faithful,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u183	A PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u184	... and the Government, of course, to its commitment not to structurally alter the formula for financing social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u185	The PS or the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u186	Yes, it is a government of the Socialist Party. Is there any question about that? Oh, my God! It's not a PSD government! But, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, there are temporary reductions in the single social rate, and some even definitive, which do not call into question the one who is our understanding, as I think this descent does not question it either. There are several mechanisms to support the inclusion in the labour market of people with special difficulties, former prisoners and outside, there are several mechanisms to support employment, maintenance and job creation of people with particular difficulties and we believe that in this case we are talking about a situation of these. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is traditional to discuss the past when a subject is relatively difficult for the opposition benches. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u187	The story repeats itself!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u188	I am always available to discuss the past and I have no problem here saying that I was in fact in the first agreement on the growth of the national minimum wage, which was subscribed by all the social partners. It is true that this agreement provided for two stages of evolution of the national minimum wage and it is also true that the first phase was fully completed and that, following this stage, not only in Portugal but in the world, the greatest economic recession took place. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u189	It was in the world, it was! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u190	If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen don't follow the story and don't read the papers, the problem is yours! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the biggest recession since World War II that led to the understanding of altering the rate of growth of the minimum wage. But, Madam Member, the responsibility for whether these small and medium-sized enterprises, these institutions, will or will not, in the next month of February, be able to discount 1, 25 % of the single social rate is each of the Members and each of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u191	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u192	I hope to see what your position is, Your Honor! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u193	Mrs. Members, before giving the floor to Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro for an intervention, I just wanted to announce that, in addition to the draft resolution of the CFP, which had already been announced earlier, for the end of the rule of law that we are considering, a draft resolution of the Left Block and another one of the Greens has also entered in the same direction. Their votes will be held today when we conclude the debate. Now, yes, for an intervention, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate this afternoon will be an important testimony to the value of coherence in democratic life. It is through this rationality, this logic, that the parties honour their history and their values, expressing them through the votes they take at every moment in the Assembly of the Republic. It is for them that we see whether or not they comply with their own principles. by the debate around this matter, we already know who has met and who, not fulfilling itself, does not want to let the country comply with an agreement that serves workers and companies in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, after all, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, who does and who doesn't? Here's the answer we need to get this afternoon. The Socialist Party, first of all, met. He has complied with the agreements with the parliamentary allies,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... fulfilled the Government Programme and increased the national minimum wage. It is already in force and represents a historic increase in the space of a legislature, recovering income from work after a time when we were told that we had to impoverish to live better. But no, we didn't! And, therefore, Portuguese workers who receive the minimum wage well know the difference that represents a governance of the PS of right-wing governance. And you know more than that! Even though the PSD tries to do more inconsistencies than it demonstrates, we all know that the PSD has never been against the fall of the TSU but, yes, against the increase of the national minimum wage for the values we want and we will achieve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the Socialist Party, fulfilling its partners and its Programme, also met with social consultation, obtaining an agreement that involved negotiations and approximation to counter positions, as always happens in all negotiations, weighing the costs of a non-agreement to the objectives that we all want to achieve, strengthening collective bargaining and assuming a temporary and extraordinary reduction of the TSU. The PSD, demonstrating that nothing has to offer to the country, not to be a deep resentment without memory or future, today inaugurates an unpublished principle in our democratic life: « If it comes from PS, regardless of its intrinsic quality, we are against it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The PSD, for whom today it is strange to negotiate, for whom today it is strange to conclude, for whom today it is strange to approach opposing positions, demonstrates that it can only be an isolated PSD, a cantoned PSD in the vertigo of its own contradictions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Thirdly, in this debate, we know that the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens have also complied with their convictions: they are today, as they have always been in the past, against any reduction of the TSU, regardless of its configuration and the terms in which it is inserted. Its position shows the fundamental coherence of each party with its positions and values, even when they may conjuncturally not match each other, not undermining the objectives we set in the framework of the Legislation. We know, sirs. Members, that this can be difficult to understand by whom, even recently, has put many differences into the drawer to govern at all costs, for whom it has ruled against its principles, as Mrs Cecilia Meireles told us, for whom it has transformed Portuguese political life into an endless melodrama of resignations and readmissions, with costs also for debt interests, Mr Luís Montenegro, some more irrevocable than others. But with us it is all clear, with the best social and economic results in many years. [[PSD protests.]] This is about consistency, Mr. Members, consistency, and she only confuses who thinks someone might be who is not, as the Social Democratic Party demonstrates this afternoon, in this debate. The PSD this afternoon prepares to plummet this measure and we continue without knowing why. The country still doesn't know why and the worst is that the PSD also doesn't seem to explain, don't know why. The PSD, eventually, wants a structural reduction of the TSU, as I wanted in 2012 ; we are against! They wanted profound changes in social security, such as ceilinging; we are against! They wanted to boycott the social agreement to lower the minimum wage below these values; we are against! They wanted to break with the concert, attacking the unions, who are partners of social dialogue, as they attack every week; for we are against! And if it's not for any of this, as the PSD apparently says it's not, then the PSD does even worse. The PSD rips its fundamental coherence only to try to create a formal problem something childish to the Socialist Party. That's very little, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! That is very little and the social partners and the country have already understood your strategy. You do not create any problems for the Socialist Party or for the Government because, obviously, we will continue to do our best while you continue to give your worst, confronting social dialogue. The only problem PSD creates is itself. Not from what we all know, not by the radicalism of their positions of 2012, not by the position of 2015 and not by the position of 2016 — that would already be enough — but by the position of two, of three, of four and five weeks ago, see there, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, look! The degree of contradiction of the PSD is of such order, it is so accelerated that it can be measured in minutes! Mr Marco António Costa said, four weeks ago, and I quote: « What the PSD wants to see assured is that this benefit granted to private companies is also granted to the IPSS, the mercys, the mutualities, which are institutions of great relevance to the national economy(...) ». Four weeks, which has changed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Adam Silva — already speaking in this debate — Vice-President of the PSD, in terms of social security, said two weeks ago, I repeat two weeks ago, and I quote: « There are indications, there are historical facts, signs of consistency which point to the position of the PSD to enable the government to maintain the decline of the TSU. » In two weeks, Mr. Deputy, what has changed? Mr Pedro Roque, also present in this debate, Secretary-General of the TSD (Social Democrats) said, four weeks ago, and I quote: « Pedro Roque recalls that ‘the direction of the UGT, where the TSDs are, unanimously approved the social agreement’ and that even congratulated Carlos Silva! » In two weeks, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what has changed? [[PSD protests.]] They will always be able to say that these positions of senior leaders and PSD Members do not represent your Parliamentary Group as a whole. It's strange, but it's legitimate. However, a month ago in this House, the PSD Parliamentary Group presented a draft resolution recommending to the Government, and I quote « a serious dialogue with the social partners in order to reach a medium-term social agreement on growth, competitiveness and employment that includes updating the national minimum wage. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u195	Serious dialogue is the keyword.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u196	Because the government is talking, does the government get this agreement that you asked for, does the government increase the minimum wage and the PSD what it does? The PSD leads this dialogue, the PSD leads this agreement and does not follow what it defended a few days ago. Why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Say, in this House, why have you changed your position! There is one last thesis, we know - this week: the PSD wrote to the bosses, explaining that I would vote against the conciliation agreement - see there! — to free them from blackmail to which they had been subjected. Chantage, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? We've seen everything before, but not yet. In fact, in times past, we had a historical subject that would throw us at the forefront of the proletariat.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u197	Who was it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u198	Now we have a new historical subject, represented by the PSD, which is the vanguard of the patronate, which is the vanguard of the entrepreneurship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD is playing a game to forcefully release the entrepreneurs of an agreement — see, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen — that you have signed and freed them from proposals you have made to sign this agreement. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be creative, but that's too much. What all this demonstrates is that the PSD does not know why it votes against this measure, but we know that it violates its positions, its consistency and its principles, putting itself against conciliation and free negotiation. This vote only expresses the strategy of a disorientated party direction, which wants to extreme positions in a country that normalizes by demonstrating its divorce with reality. Unfortunately, these pirouettes discredit all political activity, all parties, and so after what is going to happen today, we will resume an extended dialogue to achieve our objectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u199	Start there, on that bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u200	The social-democrat history Sá Carneiro once said that risk-free politics is a mess and without ethics is a shame. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Today, after the sad malabarism that we have witnessed by the PSD, it is clear that coherence is another expression of this political ethics that strengthens us, but that the risk of firmness of the principles is only small politics, which lacks and weakens our democratic life. The PSD, with this position, weakens us all, but today we will get stronger out of here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u201	Mr Luís Soares of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group fully understands that the positions of the past usually condition the political discussion of the present. I also understand that certain parties in this House today realize that the debate can be more or less difficult. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group respects all parties, respects even the parties with whom it disagrees today and who have less than 20 % in the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u203	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u204	We respect these and even respect the CDS-PP! [[CDS-PP protests.]] We even respect the CDS-PP! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] I was saying, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this debate can be more or less difficult depending on the stance of the parties in the past and for the Socialist Party it is a debate of the least difficult. Mr. Luís Montenegro said that today's moment happens because the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block so wanted...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u205	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u206	It's fake! This is the moment, because there is a government that has a face—and it is that of the Socialist Party—and which has decided to increase the minimum wage. The reason for this debate is that there is a government that has decided to increase the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On this subject, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that there is a world that separates the Government from the Socialist Party, the Government in office, from the Government of the last four years. We increased the minimum wage in 2016 and 2017. And we increase it because, from an ideological point of view, our position is that of valuing human resources, that of the economy based on the value of human resources; that of the competitiveness of the economy based not on a low wage policy, as the PSD has always defended. They certainly recall the following statements: « Portugal will only emerge from the impoverished crisis (...) »
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u207	We remember perfectly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u208	They will certainly remember the statements made by Pedro Passos Coelho, who said that the increase in the minimum wage would lead to more unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u209	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u210	It hasn't been that way for so long, but it's always good to remember. So it is top of the line that you can come here today, four years after cuts in the lowest incomes, say that you are not against the rise of the minimum wage. But back to the beginning, I said that this debate can be more or less difficult. And for the Socialist Party, it is less difficult also because we reach this point with a broad social consensus. A social consensus obtained in the social consultation, by the representatives of the employers, by the representatives of some workers — many — by the government and, see only, by the President of the Republic! It is a clear sign not only of broad social consensus but also of fair balance in defending the legitimate interests of the parties represented in social dialogue. It's always extraordinary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, may the PSD come here today to say that its vote against is based on an intention to release the social dialogue from the blackmail of the Government. We have known many facets to Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, today we know one more: Pedro Passos Coelho, "the Liberator". [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But, in fact, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone believe... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] ... that the employers and workers, represented in the social consultation, were taken by the ear, or held by the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, to sign an agreement with which they did not agree? Does anyone believe it? Oh, my God! No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, no one believes, not the PSD Members! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that only reveals one thing: hopelessness of the PSD. They have no arguments to justify what is happening today. And I want to tell you, without dramas, that the Socialist Party is quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u211	Good! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u212	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is enough to see that we have been ruling a year ago — I repeat, ruling a year ago. You don't need to tell us who rules, we've been ruling for a year. And that is how we will continue, without drama, in the defence of the country and putting the interests of the country, of the workers and of the company first and not the party interests. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u213	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you know, the tradition is that those who propose the scheduling of the debate make the last speeches. We have already registered Mr João Oliveira of the PCP Parliamentary Group and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the BE Parliamentary Group for final interventions, but there is still time for the other parliamentary groups to speak. [[Pause.]] Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese attend this debate and hear a voice. Despite the exaltation of some moments, the voice they hear most is a voice in the deaf,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u215	You're listening to voices!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u216	...a voice that represents a risk of trivialization and that it all incorporates, as if nothing strange existed. A voice that is underlying many interventions, including the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Green Party. It says this voice that it is banal that this government supports a majority that does not support it in matters of the greatest importance. Yes, it's trivial, it's normal, we'll see a Prime Minister lie to a sovereign body in the exercise of duties. [[PS protests.]] Yes, it is ordinary, it is normal, we see a government break agreements with the signature of the Prime Minister of Portugal, agreements that divide because he cannot comply, but who signed, when he already knew that he had no conditions to comply with them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u217	If all of this is trivial, a majority that breaks down every difficulty, a Prime Minister who lies in the exercise of functions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u218	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u219	... a government that is missing from the floor; ladies and gentlemen. Members, if all this happens peacefully, the country and its institutions are not, cannot be, living their best days. We in the CDS-PP regret this slightness, this lack of rigour, this total lack of sense of state. We, in the CDS-PP, favour social consultation. Anyone who says otherwise is lying. It was with us in the government that, at an extremely difficult time for the generation of Socrates to push us, it was possible to reach a social agreement. Yes, the CDS-PP is in favour of the increase in the minimum wage, in social consultation. And whoever says otherwise, he's lying. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u220	That is what we, when we were in the government, and against the will of the external entities to which we were subject to the generation of Socrates, did; we reached an agreement to defuse the national minimum wage, which had been frozen by the PS government. [[CDS-PP Applause]] Yes, the CDS-PP is in favour of measures that remove production costs and help IPSS and the competitiveness of companies. Anyone who says otherwise, lies with how many teeth he has. [[PS protests.]] The context in which this vote takes place is the sole responsibility of the Government, a government that has the support of those who withdraw from it conditions to keep its word. It is the first time, in the history of our democracy, that such a circumstance occurs. Management continues to make history, unfortunately for us for bad reasons. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u221	In the CDS-PP we face this impasse and, despite repudiating the irresponsibility of this government, we will not leave the side on which we have always been, on the side of social dialogue and on the side of the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] So we assume the will to seek better solutions, to reconcile everything that is at stake here. Let's propose, we've already proposed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u222	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u223	I will finish, Mr. President. I said that we proposed the revision of the special payment scheme on account, the gradual decrease in IRC, the increase in the counterpart of social agreements, the extension of the legislation in force in relation to the single social rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u224	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u225	I will finish, Mr. President. The government lies in the light of the government and the majority who supports it is fragile. When some fail, the CDS maintains its position, its sense of responsibility and makes politics for the positive. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u226	Mr Carlos César, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this debate involving the review of the Decree-Law which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate of social security by the employer, I would like to reaffirm, on behalf of the PS, the following : the Decree-Law in question results in a tripartite agreement signed within the Standing Committee on Social Concert, involving representatives of workers, employers and the Government. This is not therefore an option or a spurious decision. All those involved have concluded this agreement of good faith. Neither did employers blackmail the government because they could not prevent the decreed rise of the national minimum wage, nor did the government blackmail the employers, because compliance with the law is not subject to conditions that are not established in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The one-year decrease in the value of TSU was not just a government proposal. It was and is, above all, the result of a concertation that had a moment, a cause relationship and a place itself. The moment was the recognition that it is important especially to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in their capitalisation, which, of course, they already think so, but they say that it must be done differently. The cause relationship was the decision of the PS Government to significantly increase the national minimum wage, essential for justice and combating poverty in our country, and consequently wage expenditure in the context of companies. The location is what the law determines as the privileged venue for dialogue with the social partners. If it is true that it is not for social consultation to decide, it is also true that it is the historical and institutional practice of Portuguese democracy to respect the results of this consultation. That is not, however, the will set out in this Parliament's decision in view of the proposals for the cessation of the effects of Decree-Law, of the Government, which, as we have seen, will be adopted here. It will not be an illegitimate decision, on the contrary, not much less dramatic, but the PS will vote in favour of social consultation, which is like the one who says of the agreement concluded. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We defend that social dialogue is a greater value for social stability and avoids political instability. Instability that has been an aperitif that feeds the idea of a right always willing to present itself phalsically as a disciplinary force.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u229	Our vote is thus that of respect for the Economic and Social Council, the institutional headquarters, in constitutional and legal terms, of social consultation, where workers and employers are represented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But on voting in this House and on its motivations and context, the PS would like to reiterate that it knew, understood and accepted the position, on this issue, of the parties that support the government, although it disagrees. We all knew and we know that they disagreed with the measure they are proposing to stop today. With the Left Block, with the Communist Party and with the Greens there is no reason for misconceptions, as I said. We all know that they share with the Government the main objective—and the main objective, in this case, was, and is, the increase in the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the Left Block, with the Communist Party and with the Greens Ecological Party we share the essential of the social and economic policies developed and designed, in particular those expressed in the measures and options of the already approved State budget laws and other structural laws. This despairs the PSD and CDS, we know, but that is why the right will have to continue to count along this Legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The perplexity and contradiction in this process are not generated by those who do what was expected to do, as are the cases of the parties to the left of the PS that support the government. What is disturbing to political credibility and parties is who now does what anyone would never think he could do, denying what he has done and what his condition determines what he should do, as is the case with the PSD in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government and the PS, like the social partners, have concluded and supported an agreement with the greatest sense of responsibility. They did it seriously, counting on the seriousness of others. Calling seriously, only the PSD missed the call. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Everyone else did what everyone knew they were going to or should do. Irresponsibility is not where they signed an agreement. Irresponsibility is in those who betrayed their own history. Irresponsibility is in the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not the government and the PS only that they miss this transformation of the PSD into a party that is disrespected and not respected. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD position is so irresponsible that there is no social partner who understands it and is the subject of criticism from the most diverse personalities, even from some Members and personalities in their own political area.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u230	Is this how I show you what you're talking about? [[At the moment, PSD Member Luís Montenegro presented a newspaper report on an interview by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, entitled ‘There is no strong reason for us to reduce TSU for companies’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u231	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reaffirm again what the Government and the PS have guaranteed: the social agreement in which, through certain requirements, the fall of the TSU is, in our view, a good agreement. Take care of business interests and ensure progress for workers. It should not be called into question. [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]] Mr Luís Montenegro, this is the Assembly, it is not a circus! Respect who's intervening! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The measure adopted is recovered from another previously applied measure, taking into account a first impact of the change in charges involving the agreement of the significant rise of the national minimum wage, providing a smoother transition in the weaker and weaker economy of companies, a fragile economy, depending on the inheritance of the governance of the PSD and the CDS. [[PSD protests.]] The measure taken, contrary to what is said, has a transitional character and is dated until 31 January 2018. In addition to that date, it would cease to exist. That is why it is not a policy to encourage a practice of low remuneration. We are, in fact, against a downside from the structural point of view of the TSU. We are in favour, in this circumstances, of a low conjuncural nature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] the measure, contrary to what is propagated, would not result in or result in budgetary damage to the social security system. It has already been mentioned here that either through the current State budget or through the State budget for 2018, in the second half of this funding, will compete with the State budget to ensure the balance of the social security budget. All this has been demonstrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u232	I'm not so sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u233	By failing to apply this measure of the TSU, others will certainly prevail in the context of the same or a new agreement, supporting companies and institutions of social solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a final note. The increase in the national minimum wage in the projected values is the great achievement of this process and, after all, the reason why we are currently blocking this debate. If some parties disagree with compensation or how to do it, others, such as PSD, disagree with compensation, because they disagree with the reason that motivates it. They were, and even confessed, contrary to this rise in the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It adds, in the case of the PSD opposition, another truly extraordinary and amorous reason that the one himself was not ashamed to confess in these last days more than once.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u234	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u235	He said, without rounds: don't think Portuguese people will vote because the PSD agrees or disagrees with a certain measure or because he thinks or has always thought in a certain way. With overwhelming frankness, but with enormous moral weakness, he has already pointed out: the PSD will always vote in the way that it can harm the government, and no longer will, nor will it think of anything else. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On this floor, ladies and gentlemen. Members — and I shall finish — will surely come the day when the PSD, taken by this obsessive monomania, will eventually vote in favour of the release of NATO, the exit of the euro, and out there only to harm the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u236	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u237	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we are being prevented. This debate showed a left that cohabits in a government project, in recognition of its similarities and differences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u238	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u239	...and has shown, inversely, the catatonic and irresponsible state to which the PSD has arrived! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u240	The PSD does not register any Member? [[Pause.]] Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let it be clear that this was not a debate on whether or not the minimum wage was raised. [[Don't you?Oh, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u242	Don't! This was already decided by decree by the government. It was decided, including, against what are the most basic principles: the growth of the economy — which they promised so much — the gains of competitiveness — that they promised so much. That is why this debate does not make sense to be called here today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u243	Minister, the economy cannot pay these salaries, companies cannot pay these salaries... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u244	...and you decide to put social security to pay. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u245	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to allow the speaker to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u246	Mr. Carlos César, where is the circus anyway? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But in addition to making social security pay what the economy cannot afford, you disrespect social consultation. They disrespect because they sign agreements that before they were; they disrespect because they give orders instead of articulating, they blackmail rather than negotiating and, more so, they do so continuously, because they have already disrespected when they did not lower the IRC (tax on the income of the public), an agreement made in the social consultation and which also had the agreement of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u247	That is why this disrespect for social consultation begins to be a habit of the Socialist Party and the Government. But where is Mr. Minister of Economics?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u248	Where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u249	Is this not an economic issue? Is it not a matter of economics?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u250	Where is he?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u251	Can anyone call and tell you what economic issues are being dealt with here? It was good for him to be present and it was good to know a little about his opinion on this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u252	from an economic point of view, it has already been seen that it is bad, but from a political point of view, it must draw conclusions. The first is that if this government was already lacking the vote of the people today, it is also lacking parliamentary support. [[PSD applause.]] The second is that, unlike a stable, lasting and cohesive majority, this government has a stable position. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u253	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u254	The third and final reading — and I conclude, Mr President — is that this management needs so many times of spare parts because it has some manufacturing defect. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Think about it, too, Minister! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u255	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was a very important debate. After a year that objectively failed the PSD and its leader, the PSD decides to change strategy. And what did the PSD decide to be? The PSD today announced a new phase in its life: it has decided to be the fleshly party between the PS, the PCP and the Left Block. What the PSD has done and will do today with this vote is tell the political centre in Portugal that it can no longer count on the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u257	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, explain this to you. [[At the moment, PSD Member Marco António Costa posted a newspaper report on an interview by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, entitled ‘The PS will never again need the right to govern’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u258	But the PSD is wrong. The PSD will not vote against the government, will not vote against the majority, the PSD will vote against an agreement in social consultation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD will vote against a measure aimed at strong support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Portugal, but above all it will vote against itself. [[PSD protests.]] This new phase of PSD life may have strengthened its leadership internally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u259	Mr. Secretary of State, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u260	... but what it clearly says to the political center in Portugal is that they no longer have the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,... Continuation of PSD protests, also registering PS counterprotests. Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to whom I ask not to begin until silence is made, is then included for an intervention. Continuation of PSD protests and PS counter-protests. I would ask you, in the first few rows, to end the dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u262	Mr President, I should like to hope that the PSD will be irritated by the outcome of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u263	Mr President, if you consider that you do not have the right to begin, I would ask you to wait a few seconds. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this debate, it is once again clarified that it is not the social dialogue that decides on labour policy, who has the power to decide is the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. This debate was, moreover, a serious step in the strategy of those who have used the veto of employers' confederations in social consultation as a brake on measures favourable to workers. In addition, by revoking the reduction in TSU earns workers and gains social justice because this measure is wrong, encourages low wages, places workers to pay their own increase in the minimum wage through social security and the State budget, it would benefit the large economic groups that use and abuse the minimum wage for the low wages they perform. A third central aspect of this debate is that today it has been very clear that the labour policy options need to take account of the interests of workers, by reversing the ill-treatment of the former PSD / CDS government, by repealing the most serious standards of labour law and by reposing rights that have been cut, in particular by defending collective bargaining. The CFP will continue to bring this debate to the Assembly of the Republic and we do not forget other negative aspects contained in the social agreement. As for PSD, only a few brief notes. In the absence of the devil—which never arrives again— the PSD resolved to dress his skin and change his position with respect to the TSU. This does not dignify the PSD, but does not bother the PCP, not only because we no longer have much regard for the coherence of the PSD but, above all, because in this case, despite its inconsistency, its opportunism and tactics, the position of the PSD can be useful to workers. And we do not ignore what is essential. The objectives of the PSD, with this exchange of jackets in the TSU, were to attack the increase in the national minimum wage and to create difficulties in the political solution that removed them from the government and which has allowed workers to see some of the rights that were cut from them by the previous government. [[PCP applause.]] It is no wonder that this increase in the minimum wage is under attack by the PSD. While he was in the government, the PSD imposed a forced march of impoverishment and today he does everything to get that way back on track. On the other hand, the political crisis that the PSD invokes only exists in the head of those who feed the fiction created by the PSD that there is in Portugal a coalition in which some parties have to go through the incarnation to accept positions with which they do not agree, as happened with the CDS in the previous government and the PàF (Portugal to Front) coalition. Moreover, it is worth asking the PSD if it is today in a position to ensure that, at the end of the vote, the PàF coalition maintains its unanimity. [[PSD and PS protests.]] Perhaps, the PSD even intended to take advantage of this fiction in order for the PCP to accept a reduction in the TSU, which it always fought. They cheated twice. They were deceived because the PCP does not do as the PSD and does not lack its consistency and are also deceived because there is no coalition. The PCP will not be taken by the incarata...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u265	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u266	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the CFP will not be taken by the insurrection and our differences of positions with the PS and with the government will mean more initiative and action on our part so that the outcome will be as favourable as possible to the workers and the people. The positions of the CFP are clear and consistent: we do not accept exchange coins or offset by the increase in the minimum wage, we do not abandon the struggle for the increase of the minimum wage to 600 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u267	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u268	I shall conclude, Mr President. We will present solutions for the defence of collective bargaining and workers' rights, we will defend proposals for support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and we do not accept that they are secondary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u269	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u270	It is with this coherent position of the CFP that workers and the Portuguese people can continue to count. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u271	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, State Secretaries : The national minimum wage in 2017 will be € 557 per month. It is true that this was not the debate, nor was that the parliamentary opinion that was at issue here. [[PSD protests.]] If it were, it was clear to everyone and everyone who attended this debate that the PSD would vote against this increase in the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u273	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u274	We know, there's no news. And because we knew what the right-wing policy meant for the country was, when we discussed with the Socialist Party the agreements with a view to forming this parliamentary majority, we placed on the table the minimum increase of the national minimum wage. We didn't put any ceilings on. Social dialogue, the struggle of workers, could be even more demanding than what we put in our agreement, and we would welcome it. Now, what we said was that we would not endorse a government that did not make an increase in the national minimum wage, at least in 2017, to €557. Now, what history is proving is that this agreement is fundamental, definitive and that is what marks this increase in the national minimum wage. We did good. We did well to make that agreement! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the result of this agreement was that the PS, in its Government Programme, also put in place—and therefore prepare themselves now—that in 2018 the minimum wage will be at least €580 and in 2019 will be at least €600. He said that this increase is extraordinary and we say that it is extraordinary because extraordinary were those who sat at the negotiating table to achieve it. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We are well aware that the Government has always said — and so has done — that this proposal would lead to an increase in social cooperation. We never shut the door to that reality. Now, we do not give social consultation a reality that it does not have. Those who say that there has been a social agreement that has approved this decree which is now the subject of parliamentary consideration are not seeing the reality as it is, in fact. in social dialogue, the Assembly of the Republic does not take place, but has the government, have the bosses and have the union centrals. That is why it is false when it is said that this social agreement has been reached. It is not total, it is partial, and, like others, it has been approved by the bosses and by those of them who never disagree, which is the UGT. We are not wrong about that, and therefore we do not accept that they will try to impose on the sovereign body that is the Assembly of the Republic and, in particular, on the Left Block the agreement of social consultation, which is not, and the result of that agreement, which is an attack on workers. That's what we don't accept! This is because what comes out there is the positive result of blackmailing employers: putting workers, whether through social security or through the State budget, to pay part of the increase in the minimum wage. For this we never agreed, for that we always said that they did not have our commitment and, clearly and unequivocally and with all transparency, we told the Government that we would not agree with this measure. Therefore, only the delinquents of the PSD and CDS are caught unaware of a parliamentary appreciation that was before it was. It had already been said that it would be presented, the government had already been informed of this result and, therefore, we are fulfilling what has been announced a long time ago. This is the debate that was already written even before it was. It is true that not everyone is acting in accordance with their positions in this matter. But in the same way that a stopped watch, which doesn't work, gives the right hours twice a day, the PSD, sometimes when it's wrong, ends up succeeding in what is advantageous to the Portuguese. Good, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We're happy! Mr Luís Montenegro, we are pleased with the sense of vote by the PSD in the vote to be taken shortly. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Now let me tell you the following: Cambalhota per Cambalhota, it is always better to give the cambalhota in defense of the workers than, when they said that they would not increase taxes, they have made the greatest tax increase in the history of our country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u275	And you guys kept up and even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u276	...or, when they said they wouldn't cut pensions, they cut pensions like they'd never seen in our country. Good! More reels of these and we will be here to watch you and to beat you up, Mr. Luís Montenegro. We know that the right, every time he talks about coherence, he's not talking about himself for sure. in this conversation it is strange that for the CDS we have a position of our own, that we defend it here in the Assembly of the Republic, and that we are even able to vote differently from the will of the government. We know how irrevocable the position of the CDS and Paulo Portas was! ...we remember that. And Mr Nuno Magalhães told us that the CDS was often opposed. We have seen them, opposed to standing up and supporting each of the decisions of the previous government! ...each one! The cuts of wages — the taxpayers' party agreed to cut wages! The pension cut—the pensioner's party agreed to cut pensions! Each of these decisions! Every attack of austerity to people had subscription, support, vote and applause from the PSD and CDS! It was so good that they even wanted to stay in touch! That is the reality, Mr President! That's the reality! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] But it does not count on us to defend matters that harm our economy. And here we go to the content of the TSU proposal. It is objective that this is support for low wages. It is a goal that is not necessary for our economy, because the average wage weight in the costs of companies is about 20 %. And all, I repeat, they all point to other costs that can and should be attacked, that the costs of wages are not. And it is objective that we cannot ask a parliamentary majority to set up the value of wages to support a measure that will give employers compensation to increase workers' wages. It is also the objective that we have always said — and it is the result of each data being known — that the discount on TSU does not favor the distribution of wealth, does not value the economy, and that what is needed for the economy is to give more purchasing power to workers. Well, that's exactly why we made the deal we made. But what results from this debate today—and I think that is the most important lesson that we should draw, particularly the majority of parliament, and forgive me - now the PSD and the CDS who turn me to the left side of the Chamber—...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u277	It was time!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u278	... is that we joined together to make agreements against the PSD and the CDS, because we said that the country could not be dependent on them to govern because we said that the program of them destroyed the country and because we wanted alternatives to its governance. Now, what this debate calls upon us is the origin of this compromise. This parliamentary majority constituted itself not to be dependent on the right and not to be dependent on the PSD and CDS. If any conclusion should be drawn is that this majority is stronger because it is called for this origin, that we are sufficient to improve people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u279	It's extraordinary! Great!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u280	That is how the national minimum wage increases; so it is at the end of the salary cuts; so it is at the increase in pensions; so it is at the approval of the State budgets we have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u281	Mr President, you have already exceeded the time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u282	That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that you will always see the Left Block stand up in defense of the values that led to the signing of our agreement with the Socialist Party. We'll never miss our word! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u283	With no further inscriptions, the assessment of Decree-Law No. 11 -A / 2017 of 17 January is completed[ Parliamentary assessments n. 30 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE) and 29 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. Mrs. Members, however, introduced draft resolutions Nos 631/ XIII ( 2 ) to the Bureau ( 2 ). a ) ( The Greens ), and 632 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( BE ), which will be voted on in conjunction with draft resolution No 619 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ), all of them relating to the cessation of validity of Decree-Law No 11 -A / 2017 of 17 January, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate charged by the employer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u284	I call on the Bureau to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u285	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u286	Mr President, on a regular basis, as you well know, the proposed amendments should be tabled until the end of the debate. However, as at least one parliamentary group announced that it would present amendments, what I am asking is whether any amendments have been made to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u287	Don't! The answer is very quick and simple: no, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u288	I ask the floor to speak to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u289	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u290	In view of the last request, I would ask you to confirm that what we are going to vote on is the cessation of a diploma. Therefore, it would make no sense — any lawyer realizes this — to submit proposals for a diploma whose duration will end. If Mr. President can clarify...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u291	The Rules of Procedure provide that, in the case of suspensions of validity are not approved, the amendments shall be voted on;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u292	Only in case they are not approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u293	... if they are approved, there is no place for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u294	A management, therefore, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u295	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, we will proceed with the quorum verification. I would ask the services to act on their mechanism and on the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic framework records 214 presences, so we have quorum to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u296	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u297	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u298	Mr President, by the CFP, the three draft resolutions can be voted together because they all have the same object.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u299	I also think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u300	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u301	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u302	Mr President, this is an agenda of ours, but we do not see any inconvenience in voting together the three diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u303	I finally agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u304	Having no objection from Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we shall then proceed to the joint vote of draft resolutions Nos 632 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( BE) [ Parliamentary assessment No 30 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ), 619 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 29 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] and 631 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( The Greens ), concerning those parliamentary assessments — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 11 -A / 2017 of 17 January, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate charged by the employer. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u305	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u306	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u307	Mr President, it is to be announced that on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges and Mr Carla Barros, who are members of the national TSD bodies — Social Democrats, we will present a statement of vote on the vote. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-25.u308	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session is held tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: from the first item there is the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 305 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( PSD ), 373 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( Defines the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland ), creating rules on the dispensation of firefighters who perform functions in the Public Administration ( CDS-PP ), 376 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, regulated by Decree-Law No 73 / 2013 of 31 May ( PAN ), 377 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, approved by Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( PAN ), and 379 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( BE ). in the second point, we will appreciate draft resolution No 472 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a guarantee stamp for companies with practices responsible for recruitment and inclusion in the active life of young people ( PS ). of the third point is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 307 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a new legal regime to combat harassment at the workplace ( BE), 371 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the legislative framework for the prevention of the practice of harassment in the context of work in the private sector and in the Public Administration ( PS ) 375 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Prevents and combats harassment at the workplace ( Tenth Amendment to the Labour Code and Fifth Amendment to the Labour Procedure Code ) ( PCP ) and 378 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection against acts of harassment within the framework of labour relations ( NAP ). Finally, at the fourth point, we will generally discuss the projects of lein.o 215 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repositions the holiday scheme in public service, including the right to 25 days of annual holidays and additional holiday days depending on age, by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( PCP ), 216 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assigned the right to 25 days of annual holidays by the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ), 161 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recognizes the right to 25 holidays in the private sector ( BE ), 370 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reposition of the right to a minimum of 25 holiday days in the civil service increased by age up to 28 days ( BE ), 380 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, recognizing the right to 25 working days of vacation ( NAP) and 381 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 47 minutes.]]
