ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 34 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will take care of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following initiatives: projects of lein.o 698 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the national plan for the structural prevention of the effects of drought and its follow-up ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 699 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Research Fellowship on the value of research grants ( NAP ), 700 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the national commission for the rights of children and young people ( CFP ), 701 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the protection of animals used in circuses ( PCP ), 702 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary update of research grants and mechanism for the annual updating of scientific research grants ( fifth amendment to Law No 40 / 2004 of 18 August ) ( PCP ), 703 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Bans the use of wild animals in circuses and establishes measures to support the circus arts ( BE), 704 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Update of scientific research grants ( BE ), 705 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the prohibition on the use of wild animals in circuses by amending Decree-Law No 255 / 2009 of 24 September ( PS ) and 706 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — On animals in circus ( The Greens ) ; and draft resolutions 1185 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of a working group for the lifting of the situation in which national archives are located with a view to reforming and safeguarding Portuguese memory and history ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1186 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of the means of the National Library of Portugal to allow a policy of autonomous and regular bibliographic acquisitions, developing collections and enriching the national bibliographic heritage ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1188 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the remaining hydrocarbon concessions in the territory and assess the quality and methods of extraction of imported gas ( BE, PAN), 1189 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Against the closure, maintenance of the company, safeguarding all jobs and the fulfilment of the rights of workers of Textile Gramax International ( old Triumph ) ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1190 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures for the depollution of the Tejo River and the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant ( BE ), 1191 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt surveillance and environmental action measures to mitigate the harmful effects of pollution sources in the river Tejo ( PAN ), 1192 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards maintaining and valuing the Portuguese footwear ( PAN), 1193 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure unrestricted access of all municipalities to Community funds for investment in the urban water cycle ( CFP ), 1194 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to support research scholarships, in particular the updating of the value of scientific research scholarships ( PAN ), 1195 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to mitigate water costs resulting from the effects of climate change in the agricultural sector ( CDS-PP ), 1196 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of Portuguese footwear and footwear ( PCP ), 1197 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by suspension of research and exploration of hydrocarbons off Aljezur ( PCP ), 1198 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take support measures for farmers and livestock producers affected by the drought ( PCP ), 1199 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote strategies to respond to the country's hydrological condition ( PCP ), 1200 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation of the art of footwear and the Portuguese footwear ( BE), 1201 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government agricultural and livestock support measures to mitigate damage caused by drought ( BE ), 1202 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that reports on the application by the Portuguese State of the Convention on the Rights of the Child be distributed to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 1203 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of a National Committee on the Rights of the Child in compliance with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children and the Convention on the Rights of the Child ( BE ), 1204 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the defense and integrated protection of the Tejo river basin ( Os Verdes), 1205 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Urges the Government to stop the prospecting, research, development and production of hydrocarbons ( The Greens ), 1206 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that measures are taken with a view to increasing the reuse of wastewater from treatment stations with a view to fulfilling the Plan for the Prevention, Monitoring and Monitoring of the Effects of Drought ( PAN), 1207 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to defend the river basin Tejo ( PCP ) and 1208 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and enhance the Portuguese footwear ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u3	Mrs. Members, let us begin our work today with the joint assessment of draft resolution No 570/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assign to the Ombudsman the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal ( PSD ) of draft law No 700 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the national commission for the rights of children and young people ( CFP ), in general, and draft resolutions 1202 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that reports on the implementation by the Portuguese State of the Convention on the Rights of the Child be distributed to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ) and 1203 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of a national committee for the rights of children, in compliance with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children and the Convention on the Rights of the Child (BE). For an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Teresa Morais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party today brings the debate on its draft resolution No 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), which recommends to the Government that the Ombudsman be given the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We believe that it is time to solve a problem that has raised reparations from the United Nations to Portugal, at various times, at the time of the discussion of reports on the implementation of the Convention, to which we are obliged every five years, or even when we discuss the periodic report on the general human rights situation in Portugal, the last of which was discussed in 2014. On several occasions, the Portuguese State was urged to address this failure, not to have an independent body responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Convention. It happens that in Portugal there is an entity with constitutional consecration, in whose powers, without doubt, are responsible for this assignment. The Ombudsman has a core that integrates the matter of the rights of the child, created by successive developments in a service that has existed since the time of Menéres Pimentel, the Green Line « Children's Rights », as it was then called, intended to receive complaints concerning ill-treatment and other violations of children's rights. from there it evolved into the design unit, from the time of Nascimento Rodrigues, to the currently existing core. In addition, Law No 17 / 2013 of 18 February 2013 allowed the Ombudsman to serve as an independent national institution for monitoring the implementation of international human rights treaties and conventions when designated for that purpose. This was also what happened in 2013 when the Ombudsman was, by resolution of the Council of Ministers, enshrined as a national mechanism for the prevention of torture for the purposes of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Dehumanized or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. In our view, the creation of any other body is not justified by the existence of an institution with these competences and competences, and it is not justified to add to the many public bodies and committees already in existence, in order to assign this specific function to it. These other entities are responsible for implementing the necessary public policies on the promotion of children's rights. the Ombudsman will, in our view, be responsible for coordinating and monitoring how the Convention on the Rights of the Child is or is not being applied, fulfilling its role as an independent national mechanism. Solving this gap is not a very important detail. in fact, Portugal was eager to ratify the Convention, which did so in September 1990, but is still far from fulfilling all its obligations in respect of the realization of the rights of the child enshrined in it. It is therefore more than time for a prestigious body such as the Ombudsman to have a relevant role in this regard, contributing with its action and pro-activity to a better response by the country to its obligations resulting from its status as a State party to a Convention that integrates the essential core of international human rights. This is what we are proposing to Parliament today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has spoken at various times about the need to create an institutional space that promotes and accompanies the defence of the rights of children in Portugal. This is a space that aims to fill gaps that still persist, with regard to diagnosis, the integrated analysis of data indicators existing on reality in childhood, monitoring public policies and their impact on children, and, with this proposal from the CFP, thus creating a permanent and continuous analysis space on childhood, on children and on the fulfilment of their rights. Since the extinction of the National Commission for the Rights of the Child in Portugal, studies have not been carried out consistently and permanently on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The creation of the national committee for the rights of children and young people, which the CFP presents here, aims to give shape to one of the State's responsibilities in its obligations and duties, in the face of the problems of the child, to the needs of monitoring, analysis and definition of measures appropriate to the development of social phenomena. We propose that this committee bring together the different institutions, movements and social partners in a reality of dialogue, inter-constitutional articulation and in a consultation of strategies that enable the existing resources to be profitable and present new solutions to the social problems of childhood. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All children must be guaranteed the right to protection and special care, the right to love and affection, respect for their own identity, the right to be desired, the right to difference and social dignity, the right to physical integrity, adequate food, clothing, housing, health, safety, education, education, culture, sport. Rights intimately linked to the happiness and well-being of families, in the effective fulfilment of civil, social, economic and cultural rights by the State, as well as in the assumption by the State of its responsibilities to ensure, in the lives of children, constitutional principles and other international principles, such as that of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Portugal in 1990. Despite being enshrined in law, the daily life of thousands of children in our country continues to be guided by denial of rights. It cannot go side by side with the reality and the structural causes of poverty and social exclusion, which mark the lives of thousands of children and leave very deep marks. That is also why we propose the creation of this committee, so that, among other tasks, we do a work of characterization and analysis of the violation of human rights in the context of childhood, to monitor social inequalities, the problems of poverty and social exclusion and its impacts, also promoting a look at child poverty and its multiple causes, to accompany the impacts and effectiveness of the social policies implemented, to address social data and indicators, to prepare and publish information, studies and reports and to cooperate with public and private entities competent to promote the social inclusion of children, with the possibility of presenting proposals for the integration of children in situations of social exclusion. This is the contribution of the CFP to a path of human and social development, with effective responses to address the situation of children. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u7	Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by Portugal in 1990 was — it is unanimous, I think, this assessment — an absolutely fundamental step towards the promotion of a wide range of children's rights and the assumption that they constitute a maximum responsibility for democracy. But the Convention on the Rights of the Child cannot only be used to evoke dates, produce publications or recite the principles enshrined therein, it must effectively serve the assumption that the rights and freedoms defined there are fundamental human rights and, as such, must be used for its application. When, in Portugal, we continue to have children in a situation of severe poverty, children to whom, for example, at school is served a broken or insufficient meal, children with disabilities who are not provided with all the guarantees and conditions for their development or, even, children in the custody of the Portuguese State, hosted in Portuguese institutions, those who are denied nationality or even a residence permit, and are therefore kept in an irregular situation and it is the State itself that has seen access to rights which it has assumed to guarantee them, when we know all this, we also realize as far as we are far from guaranteeing all children the rights of participation, survival, development and non-discrimination, rights to which Portugal has undertaken to guarantee on that day 21 November 1990. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child has warned that there is no national strategy and coordination for the implementation of children's rights. The Portuguese Committee for UNICEF also recommends the establishment of an entity to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal. We know that the scope of this Convention is vast, reports on an extended set of life dimensions and therefore requires a constant dedication, a total availability to act more than simply, in the face of complaints or complaints, to have the necessary competences and conditions to allow and encourage a proactive attitude and even the preparation of various recommendations and measures. For all this, the Left Block proposes strict observation of the recommendation of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child itself, and, in this sense, the establishment of a national committee on children's rights, with a largely independent constitution and with the priority task of defining a strategic orientation for the implementation of these rights and monitoring, monitoring and evaluation of their implementation. We also believe that ensuring the absolute fulfilment of the fundamental rights of children, which allow them to develop freely in the various dimensions of life, is an obligation that requires all those who have been democratically elected, that is to say, we all have constant attention. We are therefore also presenting a draft resolution, in which it is proposed that the reports prepared by Portugal on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which are set out in Article 44. the Convention shall be distributed to the Assembly of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic must be aware of these reports. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also provides for its wide dissemination, which has not happened. The reports have not been prepared within the specified time limits and much less have been public knowledge and, in particular, of the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, we propose that they become regulated distributed to this organ as well. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u9	Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The protection of children and children's rights is a constitutional and international imperative, which stems from commitments that Portugal has ratified over the years. We therefore welcome all the initiatives under discussion today, because legislative and political impulses are worthy of the affirmation and defence of children's rights and strengthen mechanisms that guarantee the effectiveness of these rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is a significant instrument in asserting its rights, passing the child, through this instrument, to be considered, quite precisely, as a subject of law and rights. The current government, by ensuring a new development model for Portugal, has fought for the replacement of incomes to families, deepening justice in its distribution and reducing inequalities by reducing taxes, increasing pensions and social benefits, highlighting the increase in family allowance for children between 12 and 36 months, which benefited 130 000 children, thus aiming at combating child poverty and exclusion, which increased exponentially with the right government. The national strategy to combat child poverty is revealing the importance that we attach to the protection of our children. We therefore agree that it is necessary to ensure that reports relating to the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal are disseminated in the Assembly of the Republic, as is the case with its clause in Article 44. o paragraph 6. With regard to draft resolution No 570/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) the PSD, by recommending to the Government the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention in Portugal, has already been a serious problem of a legal-constitutional nature since this is the matter of absolute reservation of the Assembly of the Republic and therefore the project is from that point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u11	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u12	We also understand that although the Ombudsman carries out important work within the framework of the child's core and the child's line, the 2015 legislation, which established the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth (CNPDPCJ), enshrines very clearly as one of its tasks, to plan, monitor and evaluate a national strategy for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, with a view in particular to collecting relevant statistical data within the scope of the same Convention. Therefore, in addition to the constitutional issue I referred to, it seems that the issue of monitoring the implementation of the Convention is resolved by law. As regards draft law No 700 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), the CFP, and draft resolution No 1203 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) from BE, which we welcome and which refer us to the establishment of a national committee and a national committee, respectively, we would like to stress that the promotion of rights and the protection of children and young people constitute tasks of the National Commission, which is drawing up the national strategy for the rights of children 2017 - 2020, which is now in the public discussion phase. We understand that it is important, above all, to value this new structure already established, otherwise there is a risk of multiplying entities and structures, with probable overlaps and functional incongruences. In conclusion, I would like to say that we do not ignore that the matter is of extreme importance, so it may be curious to hear in 1. the Commission, this entity, the National Commission, the Ombudsman, UNICEF in order to ensure effective coordination in the monitoring and evaluation of the fulfilment of the rights of the child, and should, where appropriate, bring these projects down to the Commission without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u13	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u14	Mr President, even to conclude, we believe that children's rights represent a fundamental struggle of our time, as former President Jorge Sampaio said, and it is in improving their daily lives that we are focused on every day. This is a challenge of society and of all of us, to which we must not miss. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u15	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting them and by saying that we welcome the initiatives on the rights of the children we are debating today, which are important not exactly for their content but for the discussion they bring to bear. This is an issue that is never too much to discuss and, therefore, we welcome all the parties who presented them. The PCP and the Left Block projects do not deserve our agreement, for a very simple reason and which has already been discussed here, at least with regard to the PCP project in 2013. This is not, in fact, a new initiative, has already been presented, as I said in 2013 and at that time we said what we have now repeated: this new committee is unnecessary because it is redundant. The tasks envisaged for this new committee are already assigned to the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk and, in our opinion, this new committee would create more entropies, would demultiply the entities dealing with the same subject and probably it would be to hinder more than help. Therefore, this dilution of functions does not help at all, quite the contrary, have very negative contours because, at the end of the day, everyone has competence for everything and nobody is about anything. We therefore believe that it makes no sense to assign to a new committee which already has the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk and would therefore be redundant. The same applies to the committee which the Left Block intends to present, which will also be unnecessary precisely for this reason, for what I have already said in connection with the CFP initiative. In addition to all this, we believe that creating another structure within a state that is already heavy and that already has more structures, in many cases, with competences in the same area, is a great nonsense for us, which, in fact, does not lead to the rights of children being looked at as they should and as they should be looked at. The PSD draft resolution makes all the sense for us, given that this is already a constitutional allocation and a competence of the Ombudsman. What the PSD proposes — to give it this particular competence — really makes the difference to finally be able to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child which, in fact, has not been treated properly in recent years. We therefore agree with the PSD draft resolution and propose — which we believe is also the intention of the PSD — that, in the annual report of the Ombudsman, an autonomous chapter on monitoring the rights of the child should be included and that, every four years, the most comprehensive evaluation should be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u17	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only that the other projects do not really deserve our agreement, only because they are redundant and absolutely unnecessary. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u19	For a second intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to recall that an initiative was adopted in this House with the abstention of the PSD and the CDS on the creation of the child's observatory. This initiative was unanimously approved in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and, as I said, was approved in this House with the abstention of the PSD and the CDS. I remember that the proposal that the CFP brings here reinforces exactly the need to look, indeed, at the realization of the rights of the child. The creation of this committee gives the State a responsibility in this matter, and we do not think, Mrs Deputies, that the responsibility of the State in this matter is nonsense.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u21	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u22	I shall conclude by saying that there is a need for continuous and permanent work on the social reality of children and young people. The CFP proposal responds to this need. Children's rights must be out of the paper and be effective in everyday life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u23	To conclude this debate, Mrs Teresa Morais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party, obsessed with finding any defect in the PSD resolution project, decided to invent a legal-constitutional problem that does not exist. The Ombudsman already has, by law, the competence to follow international treaties and conventions and, moreover, is already an international mechanism accompanying the Convention against Torture. Mrs. Susana Amador, took a shot next door when, instead of turning to us, she should have turned to her colleagues. You know why? Because they are proposing a body that already exists and Mrs Deputy, in defense of her Government, could have said that on 10 November this year the Government has published Decree-Law No 139 / 2017, assigning new powers to the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u25	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u26	Mrs Susana Amador, I am sorry that, instead of acknowledging the goodness of a draft resolution that she wants to innovate, attributing a new competence to the Ombudsman, she has spent her time on it and has not reminded her coalition colleagues that what they propose already exists. But it was your choice, Your Honor. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u27	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the projects of lein.o 696 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the territorial limits of the parish of Vila das Aves and Lordelo of the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PS ) and 657 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Aves and Lordelo of the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PSD ). Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative presented by the PS aims to clarify the territorial boundaries of the parish of Vila das Aves, in the municipality of Santo Tirso, and Lordelo, in the municipality of Guimarães. The objective of the corrections is to limit the existing conflict, always observing the objective geographical criteria. These criteria were fully subscribed by the authorities involved, i.e., there is a full and perfect agreement so that this House can approve this initiative without any kind of conflict. First, the administrative delimitation frameworks and all the physical elements available, i.e. the routes of communication, whether roads, or nearby roads, and still the natural elements, such as the water lines, were considered to be to be such. The cadastral limits of the property were also taken into account for the clarification of the territorial limits of these parish. We are aware that administrative divisions often seem less important. However, for the inhabitants and natural inhabitants of these localities, the sense of defense of their land leads them to regard these limits as an unquestionable good to defend forever and at all times. We therefore submit this legislative initiative at the request of the authorities involved in order to follow up on the agreement that has been established by them, which this House must respect and we respect on the basis of the annexes that have been presented to us. These initiatives should therefore be approved by the Assembly of the Republic, the only one competent to approve them, which comes from the Constitution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u29	For an intervention, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to congratulate the populations and authorities of Vila das Birds and Lordelo, and I do so for the good example that they give to all of us in this understanding. We are talking about a frontier, with all the contingencies associated with it, and the proposal we bring here results exactly not from an imposition from top to bottom but, on the contrary, and as it should be, from bottom to top. That is, it is a process that arises from the neighbors in the definition of what must be the border between the two churches, which at the same time separate two municipalities, that of Santo Tirso and that of Guimarães. That is why, if so, I think we all need to highlight this fact, because we all know that there are numerous conflicts, from north to south of the country, where this work is not easy. As Mr Renato Sampaio said, these things seem only but often they are not and disturb people's everyday lives. When the authorities requested the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic, the PSD Parliamentary Group understood that it should proceed with the presentation of this bill so that, once and for all, if this process would be completed. We have done so in November and we are pleased that we are now taking another step so that this request by Vila das Avis and Lordelo, which has already passed through the assemblies of parish and also by their chambers and municipal assemblies, can be completed in order to have new borders between the two churches and the two councils that represent reality and what results from the day-to-day and the life of our fellow citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u31	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives under discussion change the geographical borders between the Vila das Aves and Lordelo parish and, as mentioned here, and this is an expression we want to record, this is a peaceful and consensual situation. The municipal assemblies spoke on these amendments to the geographical limits, which were approved unanimously. in this sense, it is also respected not only the historical landmarks such as the natural landmarks of the region, making the adjustment of the territories that it imposes and was desired by the two fries. I record the peaceful way in which this process proceeded and I remember that it was brought from the bottom up, i.e. from the parish to the Assembly of the Republic, which contrasts with other administrative reconfiguration processes, namely the extinction of fragesias and the creation of the fragesias union, which went on the contrary, i.e. the PSD, from the top down, imposed the extinction of fragesias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u34	That is not the case here, and in that sense, Mr President and others. Members, the two legislative initiatives under discussion, which are identical in their content, deserve our favourable vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u35	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Bloc is in favour of the amendments to the limits of these parish, considering that it is a wish of the people and of the authorships of these two parishes and municipalities. in this sense, we are pleased that these amendments originate with the popular will and not any other will, coming from the government or other entity beyond these municipalities and Freguessia. however, I wanted to point out that the same criterion is not applied in relation to the parish and its configuration. We regret that there has not been any measure, either the PS, the PSD, at the last Legislative Session or in this session, in order to replace the limits of the parish in general, those that were aggregated, and not to have given voice to the populations, including using the local referendum figure, so that the limits and configuration of the fragesias were restored according to the will of voters and populations. We believe that the criteria should be identical for both situations and, if we rejoice at the delimitation of these frequencies and at the adjustment of their limits, we have a less positive feeling about what happened with the aggregation of the fragesias and the inaction of these parties as to what was the will of the populations of the fragesias that were aggregated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u37	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two bills we are discussing relate to the change of the territorial boundaries of the parish of Vila das Aves, the municipality of Santo Tirso, and Lordelo, of the municipality of Guimarães. The explanatory statement of the legislative initiatives expressly states that all the local authorities involved in the proceedings have already acted and the deliberations have been duly approved by their competent bodies. Nevertheless, in the current legislative process, as regards the draft law submitted by the PSD, only the Municipal Assembly of Guimarães referred the discussion on the amendments that are intended to be introduced with the diplomas now under discussion and which was approved unanimously, and only the joint decision was missing. Thus, the existence of situations of doubt within the limits of the so-called fries of Vila das Aves and Lordelo, of the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães, was developed a rigorous and exhaustive survey of the various situations in question and the municipalities of Guimarães and Santo Tirso reached the agreement necessary for the change of the administrative limits of those fries. The CDS has always considered that, in these cases, when there are agreements between municipalities, its will and autonomy must obviously be observed, so we will certainly approve the diplomas under discussion. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u39	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, we will move to the third point of our agenda, which is generally discussed in draft law No 175 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the reopening of the possibility of requiring the reinstatement in its functions of State servants under Decree-Law No 173 / 74 of 26 April ( BE ). To present the bill, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The dictatorship that ended on 25 April 1974 was a terrible period of Portuguese history, in which many resisted, many fought, many were persecuted and forced to leave the country and leave their families and everything behind. Among these people and these resistant anti-fascists are many soldiers condemned to wage an outraged war, soldiers who have greatly contributed to the end of fascism and who have had to leave our country. In 1974, an amnesty was decreed for the political crimes of these anti-fascist soldiers as well as for other servants of the State, and their reintegration was established in the functions they performed. This possibility, opened in 1974 by the recognition of the role played by these people in the fight against fascism, was reopened twice more in 1978 and 1982. Despite this, today there are citizens, military and ex-military, who, for various reasons, could not claim their right in a timely manner and what the Block proposes with this bill is that these military and ex-military can once again and once again claim recognition for their service to the Country. We are not talking about financial matters, we are talking about issues of dignity, recognition for the role these military have played in the fight against fascism and the state can recognize, years later, that contribution and guarantee them all their rights. Synthetically, this is the bill that the Left Block brings to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u41	Mr Pedro Roque has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law submitted by the Left Block aims to reopen the possibility, once again, of the reintegration of military and ex-military, under Decree-Law No 173 / 74. It is intended that, in cases where the request has been rejected in the past, a new request may be submitted. It should be noted that this is one more of those proposals, legislative after Parliament, which is parliamentaryly recapitulated, which is represented here as if it were new. However, the fact of the facts, in a historical view, has on this subject the following registration: in 1974, this Decree-Law sought to amnesty political crimes, disciplinary offences of the same type and reinstatement of civilians, State servants and military personnel who had been dismissed or reformed compulsively; in 1978, Decree-Law No 349/78, allowed a new period of 90 days for the same effects; in 1982, Decree-Law No 281/82 reopened this process for more than 90 days for those who, despite the two previous decrees, had not yet resolved their situation; and in 1999 Law No 43/99 still approved extraordinary measures for the same review and reintegration of military and former military personnel. It should be noted that this latter process was only completed in 2008 and had an assessment committee which verified close to 30 cases, with a charge of more than EUR 1, 5 million. There have been three reopenings of the same process since 1974 through different legislations. during these years, as demonstrated, different opportunities were created for the reintegration of stakeholders, notably through the reopening of extraordinary periods with the consequent budgetary burdens, but always in a perspective of definitive healing the problem. In addition, the production of the effects on the financial plane referred to in the draft law of the Left Block is hardly quantifiable and adds that if from a theoretical point of view there is an indetermination of the universe of beneficiaries to whom it will apply, in practice, it is judged, without, of course, walking far from the truth that it is intended to resolve—and stop! — a single case, although it may pave the way for a multiplicity of processes aimed at taking advantage of the opportunity created without real reasons for this. In conclusion, I would like to say that we find neither a reasonable opportunity nor a reasonable justification for this diploma and to create a new process similar to that which happened before. in our perspective, there has already been a much dilated period of time for this purpose and, as far as we are concerned, this is a closed process. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u43	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill under discussion once again seeks to respond to the situation of the military who during the previous regime opposed the dictatorship. The opposition to the dictatorial regime, of fascist chariz, which lasted for almost half a century in Portugal took on various forms of struggle, not being depressive of the military component assumed since the beginnings of the implementation of regime by several generations of officers, sergeants and squares who, throughout the dictatorship, were finding ways to manifest their opposition. During the 48 years of this regime there were dozens of military conspiracy and movements, such as the assault, in 1961, to the Santa Maria Package, led by Commander Henrique Galvão, the assault to the Beja Quarter in 1962, and, already very close to April 25, 1974, the Revolt of the Caldas, in March. The April Revolution itself was initially a successful military movement. If we consider that the Armed Forces Movement which prepared the coup that brought down the Fascist regime arose from within the Armed Forces, certainly mobilized for reasons inherent in corporate discontent but also inspired by a generation of officers from universities who, in their majority, were already in contact with the various political currents then operating in the clandestine, currents which, despite their plurality of objectives, coincided in the need to end the colonial war, it is natural that one assumes that the freedom achieved was also due to an intense political action that during the dictatorship was developing within the Armed Forces. On the other hand, it should also be pointed out that the political power should not promote any kind of discrimination between those military who understood that the best way to serve the country and the homeland was to enlist in the Armed Forces and face the colonial war and among those who, perhaps because more politicized, came to the conclusion that the best service they could render to the homeland was to denounce the same war. If, as regards the first, the State has sought to promote, and well, possible redress, by approving corrective legislation of some of the injustices which, however, may have arisen with the consolidation of the democratic regime, the fact is that it has not yet been effectively implemented in relation to the second period. In fact, although legislation has been approved that has opened up for three distinct periods the possibility of opposition soldiers to the former regime which have been damaged or even punished may request their reintegration into the frameworks, even if in the situation of pensioners, retired or placed on reserve, there still seem to be some and substantiated doubts that not all the military in this situation will have required that reparation which, in our view, we owe them. However, it should not be ignored that this legislation, when approved, will have implications for the state's expenditure, so this problem must be addressed with a sense of responsibility, without forgetting the essential, that is, it is fair that one can once again repair a debt that the democratic State and the whole country still have for those who had the lucidity and the physical courage to oppose the dictatorial regime of fascist charism. Thus, our opinion is in favour of the draft law, thereby promoting its rules so that it can be applied. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u45	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that this initiative is justified by the mere fact that citizens can exist under the conditions referred to in the initiative, and we believe that any military who, on account of his activity in contesting the fascist dictatorship that existed in Portugal for 48 years, must have been harmed in his career must have their situation repaired. We know that there have been legislative measures in this regard, which have been used, and well, by the military, but, for various reasons, particularly related to their absence from the national territory, there have been military citizens who have not had the opportunity to do so and therefore have not seen their careers adequately restored. We therefore believe that any citizen in these circumstances should not see the possibility of requesting the recomposition of his career and that his claim should, of course, be satisfied as was that of other comrades in similar situations. in this sense, it seems to us that it makes sense that this legislative initiative is adopted. It will be said that there may be very few citizens in these conditions, but this issue for us is not relevant; what is important is that there is only one citizen in these conditions so that their situation should be cared for by the legislator and, in this sense, we are giving our attention to this legislative initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u47	Mr João Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate of this initiative, presented by BE, is nothing more than the repetition of the discussion on an initiative similar to that which was discussed in this House in 2012, and which recommended to the Government exactly the same thing: to reopen the possibility of requesting the reintegration into its functions of State servants under Decree-Law No. l73 / 74 of 26 April. We naturally congratulate BE for its coherence and insistence on putting its initiatives, intentions and purposes at the centre of the political debate. In fact, I almost feel tempted to reproduce the arguments I used here in 2012 because, in fact, the reservations I expressed at that time are not dissipated by the presentation of this initiative. But if it is true that the process is not new, the political and economic circumstances are it. In fact, this was resolved by Mr Coelho. Thus, it would advise BE to consult with its partner of government, the Socialist Party, to approve this initiative, since in 2012 the PS voted in favour of it. Considering that it is unwise — and also to record the reservations expressed by Mr Coelho — to move forward on these matters without properly quantifying the financial consequences which result from that, without a zealous assessment of the circumstances in which they do so, which requires a scrupulous, thorough and careful assessment by the Portuguese Government of these cases, I believe that we should not open Pandora's boxes or open the possibility of opportunists to use this law to benefit from it, and the articulate is not clear in order to prevent such happening. So the question I would like to address to the Left Block, particularly to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who still has time to answer, is the following: do you know the universe of people that this initiative could cover? We always talk about very few cases, it is true, but, as it is written and written, will there not be a possibility of this universe being much greater than the one we were thinking about? As Mr. Pedro Roque has said here, this law has already had several periods of admission of persons who had not registered for a number of reasons, notably in 1978, 1982, 1999 and 2008. Therefore, it seems that we are constantly extending the deadlines for putting another one... Now, this does not credibility the legislative process, it must be said with all the border, because it is constantly extending the deadlines for registration in a benefit to which, indeed, they may be entitled, not the negation — they have passed more than 40 years and there have been four processes for extending the possibility of registration — it discredits, in my opinion, the legislative process. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: in 2008, when this enlargement process was done, I was already here and I remember - it was also said that there were very few cases ; after all, 30 cases appeared and this cost more than EUR 1, 5 million. Therefore, I would also like to warn you about this issue, which is not just about it, and the reservations put by Mr Coelho are important. however, we already realize that the PS, the Left Block and the PCP will vote in favour and this proposal will pass. Thus, within the Commission, examining well and asking the Government for information, because in the Ministry of Defence there are doubts about the real impact of this proposal and so that there is no possibility of opening this Pandora box - and perhaps they are not right, but I am aware of the assumption they have - since this initiative will be adopted, I would like to discuss, and perhaps even change of mind, what we are available to do about whether, in fact, this initiative applies only to very few people, as you say. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u49	To close the debate, Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, there is no understanding of the duality of criteria on the part of the PSD and even the CDS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, will remember-CL-Nuno Barbieri, linked to extreme-right terrorism and the son of the former sub-director of PIDE Barbieri Cardoso, who was reinstated in the military career. The 1st. Navy lieutenant Nuno Barbieri, who acted violently against 25 April, against freedom, against democracy, was promoted the captain of the sea-and-war war to cover the existing legislation. And who signed the office? The Ministers Pedro Aguiar Branco and Maria Luís Albuquerque, on October 15, 2015! It was an office that confirmed the reconstruction of this career. In fact, it is extraordinary that a person — or several — and will certainly count on the fingers of one hand — who fought on 25 April, who fought for democracy, freedom and who was also in the genesis of democracy and on 25 April has no right to redress an injustice. This is a measure which is being imposed on some who have not yet seen the time when they are re-entered into the military career. In fact, if this is the case, the Left Block welcomes the Socialist Party's position for the redress of this injustice, for the repair of dignity and, of course, we will be prepared to reach the necessary consensus within the Committee on National Defence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u51	Mrs. Members, let us then move on to the fourth item on our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1078 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government exceptional support measures for farmers affected by drought ( CDS-PP ), 1195 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to mitigate water costs resulting from the effects of climate change in the agricultural sector ( CDS-PP ), 1184 / XIII ( 3a ) — Recommends to the Government that it adopt additional measures to mitigate drought ( PSD ), 1198 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take support measures for farmers and livestock producers affected by the drought ( PCP ), 1199 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote strategies to respond to the country's hydrological condition ( CFP ), 1201 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support agriculture and livestock to mitigate damage caused by drought ( BE ) and 1206 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that measures are taken with a view to increasing the reuse of wastewater from treatment stations with a view to the implementation of the Drought Effects Prevention, Monitoring and Monitoring Plan (NAP). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change is a reality not of the future but already of the present and Portugal is, according to several experts, one of the countries that will suffer the most. Unfortunately, he suffers now! The year 2017 is the third consecutive year of drought. The precipitation that occurred in 2017 corresponds only to 30 % of normal values; it is the second driest autumn of the last 86 years and with the average of the highest maximum temperature. The next hydrological year, which began in October, does not start with good news, as there is already a worsening of the precipitation deficit, being December 2017 the ninth consecutive month with precipitation below normal values. The drought situation has not only environmental impacts but also social and economic impacts. This is why it is imperative to find and implement both mitigation and adaptation measures, some short-term but others in the medium and long-term. The agricultural sector is not the only sector affected but it was the first to feel, and continues to feel, the very serious effects of drought and even critical cases, such as that of rice in the Sado basin or livestock sector, where there is a lack of food for so many animals. Since the first hour that the CDS has been alerting for the need to implement a set of support measures for farmers. We also called the Minister to the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture at the beginning of May, to which he was deployed only on 20 June. The Government has, however, announced a set of measures to support farmers, measures, which we consider to be positive but manifestly insufficient, especially because the situation has been worsening since the announcement of these measures, and this is a very serious uncertainty next year, which brings a lot of concerns. For this reason, the CDS presents two initiatives which propose measures to support the income of farmers who have broken production on the one hand and increased costs, on the other hand, measures such as relief of cash, either with a view to granting subsidies, because we believe that for extraordinary situations there must also be exceptional measures. in the first initiative, we recommend to the Government, among other things, that it exempt farmers from the water resource rate ( THR ) and grant aid for electricity expenditure, because it was necessary to water for much longer and therefore the farmers incurred more costs; that it also allocates aid to animal feed, because the pasture is dry; a temporary exemption from contributions to social security; and the creation of a credit line to deal with not only with drought but also for operating costs, among others. We present a second initiative where we propose that the costs of water transfer between trees — whether in cases such as those of Aguieira and Fagilde or, above all, in the case of water perimeters bordering on Alqueva — be borne by the Environmental Fund where the need to implement contingency measures is concerned, because we believe that this is a matter that is safeguarded, within the scope and objectives of the Environmental Fund. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u53	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing the adoption of measures to mitigate the effects of drought, particularly on agriculture. We therefore submit a number of recommendations to the Government. The year 2017 has been particularly hard for farmers and agriculture, but the situation is not the same throughout the country. Regions such as Alentejo, the Interior Centre or the Sado basin have a more intense sense of the problem of drought, whether due to lack of water to drink or feed animals. Therefore, the PSD draft resolution sets fair criteria that must be implemented immediately, under the penalty of worsening the difficult situation that is already living in the most affected territories. at the same time as we are dealing with short-term measures it is necessary to safeguard the medium- and long-term future. In any dimension, the government has been responding to problems and has not had the capacity to anticipate solutions. We can say that, despite the difficulties that make sense, farmers have continued to generate life. That is the noble role of agriculture. The government has created a torrent of words and numbers that want to suffocate and hide problems. in the short term, it is urgent that the Government implement measures to mitigate the harmful effects of drought. This is the center of our concerns that are poured into our draft recommendation. In 2017, a scheme for the exemption of the water resource rate for the agricultural sector should be established. On holdings where the loss of income, resulting from the effects of drought, is 40 % or more, there must be exceptional treatment in the payment of social security contributions during the first six months of 2018 to producers and agricultural workers. It is necessary to create national support for farmers of large ruminants, fixed by normal head according to the agricultural region. It is necessary to create exceptional support for additional electricity expenditure incurred on the agricultural holding. It is necessary to adapt the rules laid down at the level of direct aid and the RDP 2020 (Rural Development Programme) in order to avoid penalties for non-compliance indirectly related to drought. It is necessary to promote private and collective investments in the agricultural and forestry sector in order to achieve the efficient use of water by increasing these investment costs in tax terms. We cannot put agricultural, plant and animal production at risk by referring agricultural producers to financial ruin situations. It must not be forgotten that, in the case of prolonged drought, the priority is human consumption, water for agriculture must also be ensured. Climate irregularities are reality that we have to accommodate. Knowing that human consumption is a priority, it is important not to forget the agricultural issue. This is the dimension of the medium and long-term that the government is not dealing with properly. When he speaks in the National Plan of Regadios, which has been badly damaged from the past, he forgets some of the dams such as that of Pisão-Crato, forgets that the existing network has more than 40 to 50 years of urgent repair and maintenance, forgets that many are in critical situation and with substantial water losses during the circuit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u55	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u56	In conclusion: the country demands competence in the governance of agriculture. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u57	I am sorry, but after all, you still have time. It was neglect on my part. To present the draft resolutions of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The data of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) are enlightening about the severe and extreme drought that the country passes, a classification that has serious expression in the lives of populations and in primary production. In addition to concerns regarding the supply of water for human consumption, it is an alarming situation in agricultural and livestock activities. Annual crops, in many cases, are not being made or, when they are done, may be irremediably lost. Permanent crops represent additional concern, since their loss will have a more costly recovery, and in some places this loss is already occurring. The effects of drought on chestnut production or rice production have been more highlighted, particularly in the Sado basin. in livestock production, animal feed reserves are being used and are running out and in many places difficulties accumulate with the shortage of water for animal drinking. The situation requires immediate and consistent measures with the particularity of the situation. We do not devalue the government's advanced media, but they are not truly exceptional. There is no doubt today that the measures were insufficient and undersized in view of the size and exceptionality of the problem. It is therefore of the utmost importance to move forward with immediate measures to support and contain damage and damage. in this context, the PCP Parliamentary Group presents and discusses, today, two draft resolutions on support for agricultural and livestock activity and strategic adaptation to the hydrological situation of the country. Two initiatives incorporating a broader legislative package, including measures such as access by authorities to funds for the re-qualification of low networks or the creation of the national plan for the structural prevention of the effects of drought and its monitoring. Two initiatives advanced after many visits and meetings throughout the national territory. PCP projects include mechanisms to support agricultural and livestock activity, including extraordinary support measures; measures to support the purchase of animal feed; preparation of a mechanism to import straws and hay; mechanisms to combat price speculation in animal feed; development of a long-term line of credit; specific support measures for rice production, in defence of national production; nomination to the European Union Solidarity Fund ( EUSF ). But it also includes measures for the adequacy of public services, including strengthening of human resources services to expedite applications and monitoring processes; temporary exemption from water resource rates; agility of the procedures for the issuance of water resources licences. The CFP also proposes measures to strengthen water storage, including construction of collective or individual dams and tanks; promotion and support for the construction and recovery of discharges; experimentation of soil mobilization techniques that promote water infiltration into the soil. In addition to these measures of immediate support for productive activity, the CFP understands that strategic measures are necessary to adapt the country to the severe situation which will be less punctual, where it is proposed, among other things: a strategy for the agricultural use of water, establishing the limitations on the use of water and the promotion of production, taking into account traditional species and varieties more adapted to the country's conditions and water requirements of new plantations and agricultural practices with traditional species; exceptional support for the production of seed and crops of native and traditional species more adapted to water shortages; support for the restructuring and conversion of crops; definition of priority criteria for the use of water in situations of shortage; revision of distribution systems in the water perimeters to eliminate losses and waste; and, moreover, reuse in the exploitation of treated effluents. The serious drought situation requires extraordinary measures, but it also requires a strategic approach to this problem with basic measures. This is the contribution of the CFP to ensure the future of agricultural activity in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u59	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2017 was a particularly difficult year for farmers and livestock farmers. to the damage caused by large forest fires, other caused by the drought that has been mentioned here have been added. The last report of the advisory working group to the Committee on the Monitoring of the Effects of Drought discloses an extremely worrying set of results. in the period from 1 to 15 November, the precipitation percentage values in relation to the average value in the period 1971 to 2000 were generally less than 50 %. The percentage of water in the soil remains, however, below 20 % in large part of the inland and southern regions of mainland Portugal and, in some places, are close to or equal to the boiling point. There is an increase in the area in extreme drought throughout the territory and a drop in water volumes in all watersheds. It is expected that there will continue to be reductions in groundwater levels. The impact of this situation on agricultural and livestock activities is extremely negative, causing enormous damage to farmers, which may reflect on the results of the next year as well as on the commitments made at the level of the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy) and with the bank. Cereal crops are getting compromised. The meadows, permanent pasture and fodder have a complete state of drought, which in many areas of poor pasture is worrying for producers with small ruminants. There is still concern about the increase in consumption of purchased foods and concentrates by increasing operating costs. There is a shortage of reserves for the winter period and there is a clear increase in the prices of straws and hays. Food continues to be ensured by the almost exclusive use of fodder and commercial concentrates, with the inherent increase in expenditure. in the vineyards, orchards and olive trees, the water needs were accentuated, resulting in an increase in production costs The lack of water in wells and springs has made it difficult to drink animals, forcing water to be transported to livestock with a significant increase in production costs. The producers of honey have also been confronted with high production breaks and the need to feed artificially with water to the apiaries The impacts of climate change on the far-CL ecosystems will be felt in particular in reducing agricultural productivity, in the risk of biodiversity destruction, in plant health problems and in changing the cultural and vegetative cycles of species. The solution goes through the adaptation of existing cultural systems, including by changing varieties, redefining planting dates, frequency and water allocations, adopting techniques for greater water efficiency and changes in waste management, but also through the implementation of regrowth, relocation of crops and passage from drought to irrigation. Agriecology, precision agriculture and conservation agriculture may be good alternatives in this context of climate change. The impacts of climate change on small agriculture can then even be disastrous. Short-term measures are required to avoid further damage. But there is also an urgent need to start studying sustainable and lasting solutions that take into account the various scenarios of climate change. No farmer should be penalized for non-compliance with commitments made for the benefit of RDP or RPB measures ( Base Payment Scheme ). The Government needs to create a direct, long-lost aid for livestock producers, as the existing credit line is insufficient and inadequate. It is also of the greatest importance that identification and priority should be given to the analysis of the candidate investment projects for RDP 2020 of producers belonging to the most affected municipalities. Finally, it is absolutely crucial that the new Community framework should take account of the need to adapt Portuguese agriculture to the climate change scenarios. This is, in short, the meaning of the recommendations advanced by the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u61	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Dramatic – this is the expression that illustrates the state of many regions affected by drought in the country. And, by the end of 2017, climate and atmospheric forecasts, taking into account the 2018 hydrological year, are very worrying. If it does not rain intensely in the next few months, the severe dry power-CL will worsen substantially. In view of this situation, we do not understand why in Portugal only 1, 2 % of the waste water treated is reused, a value corresponding to half of the European Union's average. In other words, almost 99 % of treated waste water is not reused, it is wasted. The growing concern about water scarcity leads to an urgent need for reflection on current water applications. You need to find alternative water sources for non-drinking applications. Considering that waste water is subject to treatment and subsequent reuse for various purposes, such as water in agriculture or in gardens, urban cleaning, washing of cars or waste containers, it appears as vital that it constitutes an investment priority, and essential element of the Dry Situation Prevention, Monitoring and Contingency Plan, the bet on re-use of treated waters in geographical regions that have the greatest shortage of water resources. But in Portugal there are already good signs that such re-use targets are not only attainable as ultra-passable. For example, Algarve Water has already reused 3, 5 % of treated waste water, largely exceeding the national average. Still, it is insufficient to meet the needs. Thus, and so that more regions can ensure their water resilience, we consider it vital to adopt measures that increase the reuse of waste water from treatment stations, with a view to the fulfilment of the Prevention, Monitoring and Contingency Plan for Dry Situations and adaptation to climate change, particularly in non-drink applications such as agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u63	Mr Pedro do Carmo spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2017 is already the driest year ever. The data recorded so far confirm that it is already worse than the year 2005. Why? Because the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 were weak hydrological years. It's a serious problem! It is a cross-cutting problem to various sectors of the economy, particularly agriculture and the environment. Of course, this is one of the effects of global warming, of climate change, which some do not seem to want to see. The solution to the problem would be rain, but, as this does not depend on our will, it is urgent to intervene urgently in order to minimize, in the short, medium and long term, serious damage. I ask, then, did the government just stand by the faith, just wait for it to rain? Don't! To minimize this situation, with serious damage to farmers and the entire agricultural sector, the Government has already created a set of support for animal drinking — around EUR 15 million — in 2016, with almost 2,000 approved applications for harvesting, distribution and storage of water on farms, which has prevented what, if not created at the moment, would be a scourge. It must be said that there are still other support, including the authorisation of grazing in the areas of landfill and the authorisation of the advance of Community aid to meet urgent cash needs. More: for animal feed, the government created a EUR 5 million credit line with a fixed value per head, and also took into account € 5 per herd here; it carried out the drought prevention and monitoring plan and has brought confidence to the autarchs, farmers, society in general, since monthly discussions and joint solutions. Yesterday, in a visit by the Committee on the Environment, with the presence of the Secretary of State for the Environment, Carlos Martins, we had the opportunity to see how closely this situation was. But much more than that, the national irrigation plan, which has been allowed to continue to do thanks to the prompt solution of the Ministry of Agriculture with the Juncker Plan, which allows 260 million investments, will allow Alqueva, which is about 70% of its capacity, to connect to other albums. But it is also necessary to say that there were those who forgot about Alqueva and that Alqueva could be a scourge. It must be said that they have forgotten that the pumping system that Alqueva has to run right now had to have replacement pumps, because if those fail it would be a scourge to the irrigation cultures. This has already been authorised and therefore a EUR 13 million invitation to tender is for the Court of Auditors to settle this situation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u65	We saw yesterday that the remodelling of channels in the Sado basin — an investment of EUR 40 million — will avoid losses of 40 %. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you ask: do all these measures arrive? No, they're not here! Need more? It is necessary more, but above all, what is needed is a new policy for the efficient use of water, especially in agriculture, and this depends on everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u66	Mr Cristóvão Crespo still has time, so he has the floor for a second intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two notes regarding Mr Pedro do Carmo's intervention, the first to say that the government actually follows the situation and it seems that we are at the best of the worlds. The fact is that if we talk to the farmers, if we talk to the sector, we realize that the shortcomings, the difficulties are enormous and that the answer that has been given, in relation to the seriousness of the situation we are living in, is not what the honourable Member has reported. It seems that, for the Socialist Party, we are at the best of the worlds, regardless of the rain. As far as agriculture and recreation are concerned, a final consideration that we consider important — indeed, the previous government has dealt with these issues in a consistent manner. What the Socialist Party has done in agriculture is to refer it to the Perimeter of the Alqueva. There seems to be no more agriculture in the country than in the Alqueva. We have the rest of the country, sir! The country is much more than the Alqueva, being important the Alqueva. This was the final finding I wanted to leave this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u68	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca also has time, so you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude this debate, I would like to say that we note the fact that the government does not present here and the PS does not come to play the game in this matter. All parties in this Chamber are concerned about drought and have initiatives. Mr Pedro do Carmo, to advance aid is not to allocate aid. The only thing the Government has just done is to anticipate the Brussels aid, which is anticipated every year. Therefore, to advance aid is not to allocate aid, and it is necessary to allocate support for animal nutrition. Yesterday, Mr President, as you mentioned here in the Sado basin, like all of us, where we checked the presence of Mr. Secretary of State for the Environment, but we also checked the absence of any governor in the agriculture sector — neither the Minister nor the Secretary of State for Agriculture — which was expressed by farmers. I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that the credit line which was announced so long ago, and which was published on 31 October, reached zero euros to farmers and only last week was that this credit line reached banking institutions. Therefore, Mr President, the government has indeed done very little about drought and has neither anticipated nor acted in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u70	If I hadn't anticipated and anticipated, we were much worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u71	by the interventions we have heard today, we realize that all parties are concerned about drought, are willing to adopt measures to support farmers, to cope with drought, so it was good for the PS to vote in favour of these measures and for the government to...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u72	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u73	I'm finishing up, Madam President. As I was saying, it was good for the government, in fact, to take a step in order to effectively support farmers in what they need and to anticipate what will be next agricultural year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u74	Mrs. Members, this debate is over, so we move on to the last item on our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 829 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — proposes the implementation of a programme for the deburocratization and support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( CFP ) and 1187 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminating legal and administrative problems and blockades that make life difficult for enterprises ( PSD ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative which the CFP brings today to this House proposes concrete measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs ) in the face of the difficulties and bureaucracy they face in their activities. The political options we continue to defend and propose place as priority support for the MPMEs, in a policy of defence, modernization and development of the productive apparatus and of this business fabric, representing 99 % of national companies and about half of business investment. With the current political framework, some of the PCP proposals have been adopted, of great importance for the MPMEs : proposals that allow for the reduction of part of energy costs for companies; proposals that have reduced the VAT of restoration—which had been increased by the former PSD Government / CDS — covering more than 75 000 companies ; proposals that have reduced the value of the special payment on behalf of IRC — in order to eliminate it in 2019 — benefiting about 1 million and 55,000 companies; and, more recently, in the context of the State Budget debate for 2018, the approval of the PCP proposal for the extension of the exemption to the MPMEs of the obligation to resort to legal review, updating the value of the annual turnover in which this requirement is placed. In fact, this last proposal was one of the points in this draft resolution of the CFP which we have now discussed and which has already moved forward, and well. Now, the rest is gone! We must continue all this path which is ahead, in this case of concrete measures for administrative simplification, for reducing administrative costs, for removing completely neglected bureaucratic barriers and facilitating access to finance and investment support, in particular by the Community funds. We propose that an effective current account arrangements be implemented between the MPMEs and the State, which move forward on the ground and reach companies the announced credit lines for the MPMEs in an accessible and effective manner, which promote a substantial reduction in charges for these companies which the bank has been imposing in a scandalous way with the infamous maintenance spending committees, etc. , which often makes or makes useless the lines of financing announced to companies. We propose that the reprogramming of the Community framework Portugal 2020 should consider specific and exclusive programmes for micro and small enterprises and should also be carried out in energy efficiency promotion actions; that a programme for the recovery of MPMEs in the context of public procurement and State purchasing centres should be defined and that there should be a final point for so many situations that, in practice, exclude small enterprises. We also propose that the determination of impacts and costs for MPMEs, in legislative and regulatory processes, be really ensured, i.e. that the announced "SME cheque" be put into practice and that, within the framework of the IAPMEI (Instituto de Supporto aux Smalles and Mediums Enterprises and Innovation) there is a support service specifically for micro and small enterprises and that they are effectively the priority there. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With these concrete measures presented by the CFP, we will take a step in the defence of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, an important step, but we reaffirm that we must effectively break up with the economic policy options that are at the root of our structural problems. Portugal needs investment to promote production and productivity, growth, employment and social well-being and needs to gain room for manoeuvre to affirm its sovereign development project, which requires the release of external constraints and Brussels taxes. It needs investment to strengthen innovation, research and development in production. That is the commitment we will continue to make in our work and in our struggle. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u76	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These last two years have not been tasty for our companies, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Companies have been systematically attacked by this government. The increase in taxation in local housing and other dynamic sectors of economic activity, the increase in IRC (tax on the income of the public), ISP (tax on petroleum products), spillover, IUC (single circulation tax), sugar taxes and others have been greatly exacerbating the company's treasury capacity. This successive fiscal escalation caused by the left-wing Government has not been tasty for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Tax instability is another issue that is of great concern to companies. Every year it is the same drama: companies are always scared of the picture that comes here and there are fiscal aggravations every year. Medium-term commitments, as agreed by the PS with the PSD and the CDS, such as the stabilization of IRC, are of no interest to this Government. There are very few times when this government takes on medium- and long-term commitments, everything is measured in the short-term perspective, only to respond to the usual customers. Also in terms of the elimination of legal and administrative problems and blockades, this government has done nothing. in the PSD/CDS government, despite the context of major difficulties that the country was experiencing, very positive steps were taken on this matter. I give the example of work medicine, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises: a portal in May 2014 allowed the possibility of being family doctors, in health centres, to ensure medical consultations at work to self-employed workers and microenterprise workers. This measure was repealed by the current government. Don't you remember? Oh, my God! The question is simple: does anyone know why? Why did the government revoke this measure? Was this not better for MPMEs? Were you not lowering business context costs? And the left-wing parties don't bother with this decision? What are the excuses for defending her? from the perspective of the PSD, the State has an obligation to remove obstacles that hinder economic activity and investment, on the one hand, by improving legislation, consolidating existing legislation and avoiding the creation of unjustified restrictions on economic agents and, on the other hand, by eliminating bureaucratic weight and minimizing context costs for companies. The PSD Parliamentary Group proposes the following initiatives: the creation and implementation of the programmes necessary for the development in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the industry sector, more competitive business re-qualification processes, which can absorb qualified professionals and enhance the emergence of new productive rows, generating an increase in exports and economic development; the study of the reduction of fixed and contextal costs that hinder economic development, with as great objectives the reduction and harmonization of rates relating to electricity, fuel, the treatment of waste and other matters which exacerbate the life of companies; the creation of a white book for the consolidation, updating and simplification of the legislation of the economic area; the establishment of a standing committee for the deburocratisation of the economy, where the most representative entities of the business and social sector are obliged to abstain; the simplification of the acts subject to register, through the immediate sharing of information between the various services of the Public Administration and, and, as well as the creation of all editorials and other information, until the establishment of trade obligations, until now. The elimination of legal and administrative problems and lockdowns that make life difficult for businesses should be a priority. This is a priority for the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u78	Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises form 97 % of the country's business fabric and represent three quarters of the country's employment. It is a characteristic that some consider a defect. It was the case of the previous government, which understood that destroying SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) would facilitate the emergence of large companies and that this was desirable. There have been numerous obstacles, new rules on invoicing, transport of goods, inventory records, accompanied by absolutely disproportionate tax fines. The measures were justified by the need to combat fraud and the parallel economy, as if these phenomena had a particular impact among small businesses. For large companies, only special schemes have been given to clean up the tax register and return millions placed on an offshore basis, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u81	We can also talk about the increase in energy costs and financing costs, not only in tax measures. The prevalence of SMEs in business tissue is not a defect, it is a characteristic of us, which must be enhanced and valued. Large companies are systematically falling under foreign capital and are SMEs that stay in Portuguese hands. They are also SMEs that resist the depopulation of the interior and the tendency of concentration in the large coastal cities, and therefore they must be protected and not attacked because they are rooted in the territory. We agree with a number of myths, namely that companies have to gain size in order to be able to export. But is this export size achieved only through organic growth and fusion? Is there any other cooperative, associative forms between companies to allow export capacity? Another myth is the ability to access financial markets and expose themselves to the vorage of these markets and to volatility and all the consequences of their crises. The PSD project is therefore another act of hypocrisy and an attempt to wash face to face the responsibilities of the policies it carried out during the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u83	As for the PCP project, we welcome your presentation. We follow your recitals and recommendations in general. I'm adding measures that make sense. As all small enterprises are born, it is necessary that tax rules, bureaucratic costs and context costs do not crush their activity and that fines are fair and proportionate to their contribution capacity. It is also necessary for the cash system, for example, to be a real cash system and for its validity to end at the end of the year and it is also necessary to implement measures to promote energy efficiency that benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u84	For an intervention, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party, which has brought us today a matter of relevance to the national economy. It is good to know that there are concerns on this side of the Hemicycle about the real functioning of the economy and that they are accompanied by initiatives such as that brought to us by the Communist Party. However, we must also specify the terms in which this initiative is brought to us. It is that the Government has already answered many of the issues that are raised today by the CFP, from the outset through the presentation and implementation of the Capitalize programme, and with the creation of the current account that enables the compensation of credits between taxpayers and the State, through credit lines for the MPMEs, whose implementation has not raised problems, and which are already provided for in the State Budget for 2018. The Government has already amended the Public Contract Code, which strengthens the participation of micro and small enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, conversely, the PSD brings us a draft resolution that comes to the tow and that is extemporaneous and inadequate of reality, from the outset because business requalification and human resources qualification represent a real concern of the Ministry of Economics, such as the training programme for the Portuguese industry. Increasing research and development capacity and innovation in SMEs and facilitating their access to highly skilled workers by promoting scientific and qualified employment and increasing their access to knowledge is at the heart of the policy developed by this government. The reduction of context costs, unburocratization, simplification and updating of legislation are several measures of the Simplex programme. On energy costs, there is a news that unfortunately justifies your own failure. It is that last Friday, it was noted, through the communiqué of ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ) of the reduction of 4, 4 % of the network access rate, which represents a real cost reduction for companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the breakdown of population income is the biggest problem of MPMEs, and this priority is at the heart of our political action. That is what enables us to increase the level of confidence in the economy. The PSD draft resolution says nothing more and presents than studying, setting up a committee and making simplification — it summarizes this. Therefore, the concrete measures that the majority of the opposition present in this Chamber should bring in favour of Portuguese companies are: studying, creating committees and simplifying processes. The problem does not reside in the majority, does not reside in the government, does not reside in the economy, nor does it reside in companies. The problem lies in the weak, weak, weak opposition that lives from the same file... [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] ... that he used for four years: nothing to do, nothing to do, nothing to do and everything to study! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u86	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strong, sustainable and resilient growth of our economy must pass by recognizing the specificity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Portugal. We are talking about a very significant part of our productive fabric of about 95 % of companies in Portugal. We are talking about entities that play a key role in the creation and maintenance of jobs. More than 70 % of paid employment in Portugal, they represent those who effectively have the ability to generate new jobs. And that is exactly why it makes every sense that we can have specific rules, which are proper for this sector of our economy, until we know that, often today, it is the micro, small and medium-sized companies that represent the best of our export, either directly or through the supply to other companies that are themselves big exporters. It is enough to remind us of the recent case of Autoeuropa, in which many of the companies that supply it are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. So we have flexibility in the rules — tax, regulatory or labour — makes all the sense. What makes no sense is that we have rules in the Labour Code that treat equally a company that has 1000 employees and a company that only has two workers, in which one of the workers is the employer itself. For this reason, it makes sense to look at own rules and have own measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises in Portugal. Very recently, the CDS presented a package of measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Portuguese Communist Party, which is a party of government—not part of a government solution, has the ability to approve or reprove a set of measures that come from other parties—very recently, of the discussion in the State budget, has led to a drop in the tax on petroleum products, i.e., the tax on petrol and diesel, which is so important for these companies; it has led to a drop in the PEC limit (special payment on account) to €500, which is so important for these companies; it has led, for example, to a lifting of all the fees that certainly do not have an associated service—just remind us of the civil protection rate, which is paid in the city of Lisbon by natural and collective persons. We are talking about EUR 58 million taken from the economy. If this CDS proposal had been approved, not only this but also other rates, which are most likely unconstitutional, could leave our legal order. The PCP also led the proposals to lower the IRC, but it is amazing that it has dropped a specific proposal from the CDS, which was called « compensation for credits on the direct central government of the State », which would allow an effective current account between tax debts and debts that the central government has towards companies. The CFP has led all these proposals and now it is proposing to the Government of Friends of the Portuguese Communist Party that, if you remember, if you are willing, please do this way, give there the possibility that we may have a credit compensation! If the Portuguese Communist Party had voted in favour of the CDS proposal, at the moment this would not be a resolution, it would be a reality for companies in Portugal and that is what the Portuguese Communist Party has to explain. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u88	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are very important in our country, they represent much in our economy, they represent more than 90 % of all economic activity, they have an absolutely important weight in terms of job creation and maintenance, but, despite this importance, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have not been looked at with eyes to see, what happened especially with the previous government, in which, as you all know, the example of VAT in the restoration was illustrative of this purpose, ruining many of these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector. Therefore, it is important to take measures to facilitate the lives of these companies, which are so important in our economy. When we talk about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, there is another aspect that is also very relevant, which has to do with the difficulties these companies face when, for example, they want to access Community funds, where they are forced to hire other companies to apply for these support, and these companies will receive the biggest cake. In other words, the destination of funds to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ends up in companies whose work is only to promote applications. In this regard, I recall that, on a proposal from The Greens, the State Budget this year envisaged a measure that provided for a more favourable tax regime for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that settled within the country, with the aim of combating desertification and the abandonment of the rural world, but also to dynamize life within the country. It is therefore important to take measures such as those presented here today in order to seek to unburocratize the process involving the activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Greens will therefore vote in favour of all the measures that have come to that end.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u90	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor, which is still available for some time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The small and micro-enterprises in this country know very well what the action of the PSD and the CDS was, who now come with crocodile tears after they have carried out a policy of burnt land, destruction of the productive apparatus and closure of companies, suffocated with taxes and with the disaster of the economic recession that you imposed on the country. I would even say that you are very good at putting forward proposals when you are in opposition, but unfortunately today I cannot say that. When I look at the proposal presented by the PSD here, which refers to ‘create and implement programmes necessary for development...’ — you do not know which! — '... to study the reduction of fixed costs and context...' — study! — '... to make a work of a white book, which creates a standing committee...'. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to say: don't make it difficult! This is more bureaucracy to unbureaucratize! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] If they want concrete measures, they approve the proposals presented by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-19.u92	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this item on our agenda is thus concluded. We shall resume our work tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the fifteenth-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 27 minutes.]]
