ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Officials and Mrs. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to give us an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees which must be voted on immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a report and opinion related to the suspension of the term of office of Members of the Socialist Party: Hugo Alexandre Polido Pires, of the electoral circle of Braga, by Dinis Miguel da Silva Dantas da Costa, and Palmira Maciel Fernandes da Costa, of the electoral circle of Braga, by Lucinda Carlota Monteiro Ferreira de Oliveira Fonseca. The opinion of the Sub-Commission is that the suspension of the mandate of Mr. Hugo Alexandre Polido Pires and Mr. Palmira Maciel Fernandes of the Costa fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Dinis Miguel da Silva Dantas of the Costa and Lucinda Carlota Monteiro Ferreira de Oliveira Fonseca, with effect on October 30, November 8, November 20 and December 11, 2017, limiting itself to the period of the days previously indicated, ending at the end of the appointed days.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the first item on the agenda today is a debate on the report of the Independent Technical Commission on the rapid analysis and clearance of the facts concerning the fires that occurred in Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertan between 17 and 24 June 2017. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since this is my first presence in the Assembly of the Republic as Minister of Internal Administration, I would like to begin this debate on the conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission Report, which was formed by the largest opposition parliamentary group and taken over by the entire Assembly of the Republic to appreciate the circumstances of the terrible fire in the Pedrógão Grande region in June this year, by expressing all my solidarity with the victims of these dramatic events, the pain that we feel for those who have suffered irreparable damage, damage to their lives, and my solidarity with all those who have seen destroyed families, economic activities in question, which is the basis of their affected identity. Of course, this feeling is also, in the same terms, transposed to those who, recently, in the fires started on October 15, in the Central Region and in some municipalities in the North region, also suffered damage. Today, we all feel, the Portuguese and also the Government, that we have the obligation to collectively contribute to re-emerge these communities, re-emerge this region, re-emerge the Country. The theme of this debate is the evaluation of an initiative that honors the Assembly of the Republic. And I welcome on behalf of the Government those who have had the political initiative to set up the Independent Technical Commission as well as the benches for how they have contributed to their existence. I welcome all those who have joined the Independent Technical Commission, which was composed of representatives of the Portuguese universities – I greet Prof. João Guerreiro, who accompanies this debate – and representatives indicated by all parliamentary boards. The Technical Commission has allowed a consensus to be reached around tragic circumstances for the country, which must be politically valued and which should be an instrument to guide our work in the various stages of intervention on this subject. First of all, in what is the emergency: the emergence in the recognition of the rights of the affected, in the recovery of economic activities, in the recovery of housing, in the encouragement of the rebirth of the affected regions. Secondly, in the immediate intervention in the field of prevention, but also in the field of the preparation of forest fire defence, preparing the future that is already there. Finally, in what is the medium and long-term dimension: a structural intervention in the reorganization of the forest, in the fight against the desertification of the interior, in the enhancement of the potential of opportunity around the economic space of regions such as Pedrogão Grande, of regions such as those affected by the fires of last October 15. The Government therefore welcomes this consensus on the establishment of the Independent Technical Commission and assumes the commitment that, in its work, as already done in the Council of Extraordinary Ministers on Saturday, the proposals of the Independent Technical Commission as a reference to structural changes in one of the mechanisms for preventing and combating forest fires. First of all, it will do so by indemnifying the victims, on the basis of criteria defined by an independent committee with the participation of the representatives of the families of the victims; providing immediate support for the recovery of the territory, the productive capacity of the municipal equipment, agricultural capacity, with the safeguarding of the wages of those who see their jobs at risk for the destruction of the undertakings in which they operate; placing on the territorial resilience, the mobilization of means to mobilize the air resources available for the prevention and combat, the increased mobilization of security forces and armed forces, both in a preventive and structural dimension, providing for the future responsibility of the Air Force for the management of air resources to combat fires. It will do so by assuming a position in the social capital of SIRESP, SA, which allows the State through the Government to have a decisive word in its management ; assuming that there can be no legal argument or neglect of owners of public or private institutions justifying that the obligations regarding cleaning of road or rail berms or cleaning of areas surrounding housing or population aggregates are not strictly fulfilled; and with the launch of the work of the simplified registration in the municipalities of the area of Pedrogão Grande. For this reason, as regards structural intervention, the Government is already doing its part, in what results from the conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission report, with a commitment to an active prevention culture involving local authorities and involving local economic actors; with the creation of a mission structure already preparing the creation of an agency for integrated management of rural fires; with the creation of structural conditions that give strength and a framework proper to the National Civil Protection Authority (ANPC ) ; with the strengthening of the GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ); with the enhanced intervention of the Armed Forces; with the commitment to specialization, the strengthening of the professional component and knowledge, but by valuing the unique and irreplaceable role of the volunteer, the unique and unreplaceable role of firefighters, which consists in the greatest manifestation of dedication to the next to an incomparable dimension in Portugal, in any other area. We should appreciate the consensus reached on the establishment of the Independent Technical Commission in the adoption of the administrative and legislative instruments and, above all, in the implementation of measures which structurally alter the relationship of Portuguese with prevention, with the fight against forest fires, with the structural change of its size. That is why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government believes that it is doing what it has to do in this matter. We appreciate the proposals that have already been announced by all the banks in the Assembly of the Republic and what we believe is that we will not only consider them with full attention, as this convergence around the work of the Independent Technical Commission should be maintained, in the evaluation of the proposals which, together with those of the Government, are presented by the various banks about this debate. Portugal will not admit that we are divided around this tragedy. The Portuguese, the victims, those who live in the most directly affected regions require immediate answers and require that the damage suffered be guaranteed and that, until the next summer, structural changes are adopted in the prevention and preparation of the fight; they require that we work for the future, for the future of a friendly forest of people, sustainable, that is a factor of development for an interior as an area of opportunity, competitiveness and space of solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u5	Mr Minister, the Bureau records the registration of Mr Jorge Machado and Mrs Sandra Cunha to make requests for clarification. You have the floor, first of all, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande and the problems experienced in the field of civil protection call for a deep reflection on the change of the civil protection model we have and a reflection on the responses our country gives in emergency situations. The decisions of the Council of Ministers raise doubts that should be clarified. The report points to serious failures in the civil protection command structure. The government has created, or will create, a mission unit. We understand that leaving this matter closed, giving up to a restricted circle of people without hearing third parties is dangerous. in this sense, we believe that this mission unit should be monitored and its proposals inspected and discussed. The question we leave is whether the government is available for this same challenge. A second concern relates to the need for clarification of measures in a broader area of Civil Protection. It is important to discuss what firefighters we have, what firefighters we want for the country and the need to articulate the existence of professional firefighters with the irreplaceable role that must be valued by voluntary firefighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u8	One concern we have is the indefinition of the model and operationalization of the transfer of air resources to the Air Force. The CFP has always defended that our Air Force is able to help combat, but the truth is that at the moment the Air Force has neither the means nor the human resources capable of doing so, so it is important to realize how and when air resources will be transferred and how that same transfer will be operationalized. Finally, Mr Minister, a question about the involvement of municipalities. We understand that they should be involved in the discussion of the model and the question we ask is whether the government is available to hear also the municipalities, which have an irreplaceable role in the civil protection network. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u9	Mrs. Members, the Bureau is informed that the Minister will answer together, so you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, first of all a word of solidarity, of immense solidarity with the families of the victims of the fires of this summer in Pedrogão Grande and of the last lived just over 15 days ago. We recognize the important work of the Independent Technical Commission in the report it has developed and, in particular, the recommendations contained in it to improve the ability to prevent and combat forest fires so that tragedies such as those we had this summer do not happen again. Mr Minister, the first question I wanted to ask concerns precisely the professionalization and training in the fight against forest fires and, basically, how this model of professionalization and this linkage between professional and voluntary firefighters is being implemented. We know that we need—it is also a conclusion of the report— of professional teams of immediate response, with immediate readiness, with permanent availability and with the ability to provide an initial attack to fires. The measures announced by the Council of Ministers refer to qualified professionalization, therefore the formation of immediate intervention teams. We know, however, that these immediate intervention teams do not exist in sufficient numbers even in all municipalities, so we would like to know how this joint is going to be done, how this professionalization in the fight against fires will actually be carried out. The second question relates to the link with the Air Force and, in particular, to the use of air resources, since, in the Council of Ministers communiqué, the use of State-owned air resources is referred to. We know that they are very insufficient, that not all have the capacity to operate, have not been operating in recent years, so we want to know whether it will continue with the hiring of private air resources and in what terms. Finally, we would like to know how to accommodate all these changes in the system of prevention and fight against fires in budgetary terms, which is something we still do not understand. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u11	To reply, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u12	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Sandra Cunha and Mr Jorge Machado for her questions. Very succinctly, in relation to the role of firefighters, I wanted to make it very clear, as I did in my initial intervention, that firefighters in their volunteer size are an experience, a singular case that distinguishes Portugal and must be valued. This means that we have to bet on training, changing and giving institutional recognition, with the appropriate degrees, to the National School of Firefighters, which must be endowed with our own resources, and we must strengthen a professional component within the current structures of voluntary firefighter associations. With regard to the role of the Air Force, which was mentioned in the requests for clarification by both Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that we have to put the existing means in the Air Force today at the service of combating forest fires. That is, the new equipment to be purchased by the Air Force, including the new transport aircraft, must already be equipped with the instruments to enable it to respond to forest fires and existing equipment, in particular the C-295 aircraft, should be adapted so that they can also respond to forest fires. We will continue to have to make flexible use of private means. I will not hide here that this will have to continue to happen, at least in the coming years. Finally, as regards the role of the mission structure which has already been set up, having already been designated Mr. Eng. Tiago Oliveira, it will be voted on here in Parliament. It is that the mission structure works with the government. In this respect, as in all, but in particular in this respect, precisely because of the consensus that we want to continue to be built on this issue, the Government will be accountable to Parliament for all its activity and for the implementation of all this reform. As for the municipalities, of course, my priority after this debate is to work with the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias on its decisive role in this prevention policy. I'll be with them next Monday. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u13	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The country continues, we are all deeply disturbed by the tragedy of the fires, the pain that has affected so many Portuguese families and the mourning that many have dilaced. We know that this time, like no other, requires political leaders, at all levels, humility to recognize what has failed and determination — especially a great deal of determination — to respond to the problems that dramatically worsen, such as climate change, extreme drought, persistent forest disorder and the depopulation of the rural world. in the most dramatic days of the fires, of the absurd loss of human lives, of the environmental and heritage catastrophe, all of us certainly wondered—hearing, for example, the autarchs of the affected areas—about whether there would be human forces and technical means capable of fighting the beast, so apocalyptic has been shown. In any case, we assume that the emotional shock in the face of pain due to the loss of human lives and the severity of the devastation imposed on us all, even more, the duty to unite efforts in the realization of a reinvigorated national programme of forest management, prevention and fire control, decisively, in the protection of lives and goods. In some ways, as a community, in solidarity and responsibility, we need to reveal ourselves greater than we usually think we are capable of being. This is the challenge that everyone is facing. As is said in this metaphor coming from the bottom of the times, « there is a time to overthrow and there is a time to build». This must now be the time to rebuild, with a common and shared sense of effort and as consensual as possible. To that end, the report we are now considering from the authorship of the Independent Technical Commission is a decisive element. After the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, the PSD initiative, setting up an independent technical committee, was promoted to assess circumstances, assess failures and insufficiency and present proposals for solutions. We have taken part in the Commission's conception, in its party exemption profile, with the participation of the Board of Rectors in the nomination processes as well as in the diversity of the areas of technical and scientific competence of the persons to be recruited. The solution was adopted unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic. Now, in view of the assertiveness of the conclusions of the report and without undermining the right to the contradiction of any visas, time is no longer to perpetuate disputes but to unite efforts and implement the recommendations that were pointed out and presented with independence and technical and scientific basis. of the proposals contained in the report, the Government has already withdrawn a wide and demanding programme of measures. We believe that the Assembly of the Republic will work together to contribute to the necessary answers: in support, assistance and compensation to victims and families of the victims of fires; in the recovery of housing, businesses and employment, the potential of agricultural and livestock production, with the ambition to revitalize, economically and socially, the interior of the country; in the reorganization of the forest, whose legislative package, prior to the tragedies of June and October, has been launched by the Government many months ago, requiring, in our view, ecologically appropriate management of species and the consideration of the social function of ownership in the integrated management of forest resources; in the demanding redefinition of fire prevention, civil protection and emergency relief systems; in the mobilization, at all levels, of society and its institutions, of the State, of autarchies, of civil society, of national awareness on shared responsibilities in the prevention of fires. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PS, I once again express our heartfelt tribute to the women and men of our country, among them the firemen, who, before the misfortune, do not let themselves be beaten and every day rise up with the purpose of resisting, not giving up, re-emerging lives, equipment and enterprises. We know that more than words, concrete actions and decisions are needed. This is what we owe to those who suffer and the recovery of the rural world, as a condition of respect for the dignity of the people and the cohesion of Portuguese society as a whole, in the implementation of the guidelines of the Independent Technical Commission, whose report resulted from the political choice of all of us, in active support of the Government in fulfilling the demanding programme which, since Pedrogão, has proposed and whose results, in support of the victims, are already being seen on the ground. Focusing on us, without useless quarrels, in what is essential — serving the populations, with a sense of responsibility and respect for those who have seen their lives affected, a motto, to all of us if we are required: to be more diligent than ever, to ensure operationality to all the answers found and to mobilize all the good will to, with solidarity and confidence, make the recovery a shared cause, a national cause. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u15	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: in the 60 seconds that I have to make this speech, I begin by strengthening our feelings of great regret to the families and friends of the victims and by honoring all who fought and all the women and men who continue to fight. I also recall the thousands of animals and the natural heritage that were consumed by the flames. In recent days, the Government has approved some important measures with which we agree but which are almost all of a technical or operational nature. Yes, a civil protection system is needed that works as an emergency response to populations. Of course, but we don't believe in a strategy that doesn't bet on prevention again. We need to go to the cause and not just to the symptom, we need a serious policy of interior repopulation and diversification of our forest. We have already proposed to the Government the implementation of political measures in the short term — and we reiterate the need to do so again — for the diversification of forests, with the use of species that lead to less fuel formations, including oaks, chestnuts or other leafys, because they have a high moisture content. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: at present, Portugal is a country planted by fireflies. We need to fix people in rural areas and adopt an agro-silvo-pastorial model that offers sustainable economic opportunities and ecosystem services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u17	You have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Morais.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the families of the victims, the Association of Victims of the Pedrogão Grande Fire, present in this Chamber, and I particularly thank the members of the Independent Technical Commission, also present here, whose report allows you to finally know the truth of the Pedrogão fires in detail. Parliament is discussing today the report submitted by the Independent Technical Commission, reported on the events in the fires that took place in various municipalities in the country last June. In good time the PSD proposed the creation of this Commission, which now presents a courageous document to us, which exposes many of the wounds of a system that we now have an obligation to deal with. In addition to the chapters dedicated to national impacts and trends and to the analysis of fire behavior, the Report gives obvious attention to the more dramatic consequence of these fires, the death of 65 people, all these lives lost in an area of 20km2, covering three municipalities: Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera and Figueiró dos Vinhos. These deaths, we know today, have been caused by carbonisation, burns of various degrees, carbon monoxide inhalation and traumatic lesions. It is incomprehensible that, four months ago, more than 45 deaths have occurred, most likely for the same causes. How is it possible, we still ask, how did such a tragedy happen? How can such a drama be repeated? How is it possible that nothing has really been learned from the first of these tragedies? The report we are discussing today is a response to many of these perplexities. [[Let us look at a few details, because it is to discuss the report that we are here today. The fire alert in Pedrogão was received at 14 hours and 39 minutes and recorded on the system at 14 hours and 43 minutes, at which time the media dispatch is made. What we read in the report is a set of criticisms about the lack of means. Ask yourself: Why was an airway parked in the Pampilhosa da Serra not activated? Why is the H15 parked in Pombal, and available, not activated for the fire of Pedrogan?]] The report, moreover, rejects that they were effectively in operation, during the extended attack phase, therefore two hours later, the means referred to in the report of ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority ). in fact, the National Civil Protection Authority identified 167 operational means, 48 vehicles and two aircraft. The Commission claims that 68 operational vehicles, 22 vehicles and zero air vehicles were actually operating! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a fire whose alert had been given more than two hours earlier the means to operate were not those that the ANPC reported, but less, much less than half! And the details, which everyone can read in the Report, continue, in particular on the chain of command and its degradation, against all good rules, for the Commission to conclude in this point: "(...) in the worst and most fatigue occurrence in the country caused by forest fire(...) this relief operation would require the presence of the most qualified operators, notably the National Operational Commander (CONAC)". And it adds: « The active presence of the National Commander would make all the sense of standing before one of the worst catastrophes the country has ever faced». Yeah, but the National Operational Commander wasn't there. It was where, moreover, the government said it should be: in Carnaxide. And the mistakes and failures identified throughout the report continue: on road cuts, evacuations, communications, coordination. Finally, the report shows that everything failed in the June fires and, as if such tragedy were not, by itself, unbearable, it failed again in October, a little over the whole country. The document we analyze today identifies problems and presents multiple recommendations. The PSD has always said in June that there were measures to be taken and that this should happen immediately, not even without waiting for any report to move forward with them. I remember only one: the establishment of a speedy, extrajudicial mechanism to compensate the victims and the families of the dead in the fires, proposed by us on 11 July, which, even after concerted with proposals from other parties, still had no consensus from the Socialist Party to be voted on in July, leaving the joint text hanging for three months to be approved in October, already in the form of a distorted shadow of what was intended.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u20	But on 18 October the PSD presented its initial idea, now extended to all the victims of all the fires in the country, and the Government, in a deliberations of the Council of Ministers last Saturday, decided to follow this proposal, thus disallowing what had been imposed by the PS in this House. The government did well, regret that it had been lost 3 months. But now there are recommendations arising from the technical analysis and ascertained that it must be carried out by the Independent Technical Commission. It is necessary to implement them and find solutions to the failures detected, seriously seeking to avoid future tragedies. It is in this sense that the PSD, as previously announced, will present a number of proposals for the implementation of several of the recommendations proposed by the Commission, going in some cases beyond those recommendations. We will present a project to strengthen the stimulus to recruit volunteer fire fighters, courageous men and women who dedicate their time to the community, putting their lives at risk. Firefighters must be valued in every way within our reach and, in particular, through a significant increase in the cash compensation they receive.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u21	of the gentlemen who increased the moderate rates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u22	But, in addition to this strengthening of incentives to volunteering, one cannot ignore the obvious need for greater professionalization. The professionalization that we advocate, through the increase of permanent intervention teams of professional firefighters, should, in our view, take place from the local level, in order to complement the existing volunteer firefighters' device. A centralized version, far from the population, will not have an aptitude for the answer that is required: ready, immediate, effective and in the first hour. Another of the proposals we will submit concerns the mandatory existence of a public tender for the completion of the command and operational coordination positions of the National Civil Protection Authority. The Independent Commission's report is crystal clear by saying that the appointment system « does not differ or promote specialisation, capacity or quality of performance ». The result is in sight, we say. We propose a number of tax measures, particularly in the IRC (cool income tax) for fire-affected companies in order to significantly alleviate their charges at a time when the priority should be their survival, reconstruction and maintenance of jobs. Also in the IMI (municipal property tax) we will propose exemptions for dwellings, other productive buildings and rustic buildings that have been affected by fires. We propose the creation of a national housing reconstruction programme, led by IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e Rehabilição Urbana), so that reconstruction is done more quickly and more coordinated and with the highest certainty of correct application of funds. We will present a proposal to support the income of producers who opt for the reforestation of burned areas with slow growth species. We follow the conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission, which considers that the Armed Forces, being civil protection agents, « are not properly framed in the devices and are under-utilized in forest defence operations and in the fight against forest fires ». The PSD therefore goes further and proposes the creation of a military emergency unit, with an inter-ramos composition, which strengthens the intervention of the Armed Forces in the field of civil protection. in fact, the Constitution already provides for the Armed Forces to cooperate in civil protection missions and tasks related to meeting basic needs and improving the quality of life of populations. This same orientation is pursued in the structural legislation of the organization of the Armed Forces, the Strategic Concept of National Defence and the Basics of Civil Protection Act. We therefore understand that the Constitution and the law already contain sufficient latitude to give the Armed Forces a strengthening of their role in the civil protection system. Therefore, the unit whose proposed creation should intervene in the prevention, combat and heat of fires, in collaboration with the other agents of the system. These are just, and for lack of time, some of the proposals that we will present in this Parliament, in a serious and constructive work aimed at producing the best solutions. We are available for the consensus that the country needs, to realize, at all levels, the changes that the people are demanding. The state can't fail again! The public authorities and the responsible authorities must guarantee this to a people who are in mourning, who will not forget or forget the victims, and to whom we, ladies and gentlemen, have an obligation to give voice. We won't forget! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u23	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Greens would like to reaffirm here that, at this moment, it is absolutely urgent that the necessary support, without bureaucracy, be given to people who have lost everything from one moment to the other in the fires of Great Pedrogon and these fires of 15 and 16 October. Those who have lost everything at one time to the other cannot be months and years waiting for reconstruction, reconstruction of their homes, their businesses, capacity for their agricultural production. The government must create responsibility so that the lives of these people can return to normality as far as possible. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the report in question, the Greens greets all the members of the Independent Technical Commission who have produced in such a short time, but strictly, this report on what happened in Pedrogon Grande. This report, in addition to the specificities, and it is very important for us to know them, of the fires of Pedrogão Grande that have caused so many fatalities—and to the families of these fatalities The Greens reiterate their condolences here—which we cannot forget, is indeed against what many other reports, especially those produced by the Assembly of the Republic, have already won. In fact, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what can no longer happen is what the Greens have so often said about other reports: things cannot stay on paper. It takes action. It is necessary to translate the measures set out in the reports into practice, because otherwise those reports will have absolutely no consequence. How many times have we said in the Assembly of the Republic that climate change is not a theoretical issue, it is a practical issue, it has concrete effects. The climate extremes are there with increasing force and are increasingly prolonged. We must face this reality, we must create, in addition to mitigation measures, measures to adapt to the phenomenon of climate change. It is not worth every year that we come here to say that we have hot, dry summers, because we will have them for many and many years! We have to adapt. The forest is exactly a means that needs to receive concrete measures for this adaptation. We need to adapt the forest to this phenomenon. I see that the PSD in this debate has already shown that it has not understood what it has always denied, that the forest settlements have no consequences beyond the forest fires. They have, because there are species that are, in fact, real scratches. There are others, as the report says, that they are more resistant to forest fires and we need, in fact, to support and stimulate native species in our forest. Making it more resistant is also creating more security for rural populations. We need to take that into account! [[Congrats from PCP Members João Oliveira and Bruno Dias.]] In addition, there is another issue which the Greens have always referred to: prevention must be linked to combat. We are spending rivers of money in combat which, by the way, does not have the effectiveness to be said. Prevention is the best way to help combat. So the more we prevent, the more we manage to fight immediately and first. This prevention is essential. And how many times did the Greens emphasize this here in the Assembly of the Republic! There are other structural matters that we need to fight, such as the abandonment of the rural world. We must promote policies that do not promote the depopulation of the rural world. How many mistakes have been made by previous governments that also have responsibility in this area, and do we not want to take any responsibility for what has happened to the current government? When the posts of forest guards were extinguished, a mistake was made. When the Air Force ( EMA ) went out to save EUR 11 million — now see what is being spent! - It was a mistake. When money was cut from the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, the structure responsible for the forest to save EUR 20 million was a mistake. When the law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus was passed, it was a mistake that was made. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens did not wait for these immense tragedies to push the Government to take the necessary measures at the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u25	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u26	I will finish, Mr. President. We want to stop monoculture, the huge spots of eucalyptus in this country. We want more vigilance in our forests and our nature. We suggest measures for civil protection, self-protection of people. If there was something that the fire of Pedrogão Grande taught us, it was that the State also has a responsibility to teach people to react in the event of calamity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u27	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u28	Mr President, even to finish, we would spend less on preventing and avoiding what we spent on repairing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u29	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first word in this debate goes, of course, to the families of the victims, of course, here present and to whom I greet, as well as to the Association of Support for the Victims of Great Pedragon. We naturally extend this word to the Portuguese firefighters, the autarchs and all the people who have often had no means to fight these terrible fires. Naturally and logically also, the second word is going to greet the Independent Technical Commission, represented here, and its chairman, who made a report which has an essential theme: what happened and what allowed these great fires, particularly in Pedrogão Grande and Góis, to have happened. The report, in our view, is clear, unequivocal and consistent with everything we know, particularly with the other report requested by the Government. There may be small doubts at one or another point in particular. There may be some discussion on this subject and even one or another attempt to discredit the report, but the truth is that, essentially, this report is competent, plural and leaves us with great doubts about what has happened, which is still interesting, because this is a report by Parliament and, curiously, in the discussion we have had so far, the honourable exception made to Mrs Teresa Morais, two-thirds or three-quarters of the report have been ignored during this debate. And these two thirds are the account and reproduction of what happened and what failed. Of course, the report is perennial in saying that what happened was that « Inability(...) to recognize and / or respond timely and adequately to weather conditions(...) of the day 17 is in the genesis of tragedy... », p. 89 ; this is the inability to recognize the circumstances. Then, further forward, a weekend with temperatures between 40°C and 43°C and moderate winds were again mentioned in the Report, "devalued" (p. 122 ). And precisely because of this, no measures were anticipated that would be indispensable, especially for the risk it faced, and it was even devalued that area because historically it had no major fires, which makes no sense, as is clear from the report itself. On the other hand, and as a result of all this, the so-called 'Charlie phase' was not, as it could have been, ahead of time—and in this report it is also clear, pp. 13 and 122 — therefore, the posts were not active, and without phase Charlie there was no pre-positioning of means on the ground, which, of course, in this particular case, diminished the response capacity. He failed what was the big bet: the initial attack and its effectiveness. As the report says - and it is very pressing, in my view, that part - there was a window of opportunity. In Pedrogão Grande there was a window of opportunity, which was the first two hours of the fire, to try to control it. As this window of opportunity failed, from there, as the Report says, the fire was directed to itself, did what it wanted and reached this degree of tragedy and this number of dead people. It was not activated, as was said here, a second airway parked in Pampilhosa da Serra, another was parked in Pombal. And, here, the report is also very important when it says that, when we move from the initial attack to the extended attack, there was no increase in means, as would be expected. This sentence is from the Report itself. Then, the description of the operational command, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is absolutely impressive. I quote the report once again: an operational command (...) permanently overcrowded, disorganized, disorientated, discoordinated (...) and, to the limit, with political officials and authorities to flock to the site and to take decisions that could only be of operational commanders. The report is very clear and very emphatic in all this. Furthermore, the operational management system failed to predict the normal displacement of the fire and therefore failed to prevent and protect or even evacuate populations that could be at risk. The GNR itself did not know this risk and, therefore, we must admit, it will not have been closed the fateful and tragic national road No 236-1 — which has not been cut. They failed the communications and obviously failed any kind of evacuation. All this failed because those who had the obligation to command this operation, as has already been said, were not at the time of the situation, were not prepared for it, and the command changes were revealing it itself. We are not going to enter yet'shadow' areas of discussion between the two reports, particularly in concrete occurrences, which is important for the country to come to know, but of which I do not want to speak now. The CDS, in this matter, did in due course what had to be done. The obvious conclusion of all of this was that there could be only one censorship: politics, because all of this has political relevance. We have done what we had to do and we have recorded here how the debate took place and also that those who now do not want to talk about what happened were the same ones who, at the time, though criticizing, were side by side and gave political coverage to what happened. But to be clear, we CDS, the fact that we are censored and politically critical, does not mean, as we have said since the first day of this Parliament, that we will no longer have a positive and constructive position. For us, this would not be the government, but since this government has been able to defeat the motion of censure and to remain in office, it will be with him that it is necessary to look at these matters. at this time, several words occur to us in relation to these tragedies, which added the tragedy of 14 and 15 October: repair, respond, rebuild, reform, recover, and finally do all this with, and another word started by "r", speed. The first priority is to repair and rebuild. To ensure, as could have been done soon, that the Socialist Party did not have the initiative, an extrajudicial prompt and swift compensation to the families of the victims of this tragedy. The second, and we consider a fundamental proposal, is the creation of a mission unit with autonomy, obviously linked to the government and even to Mr. Prime Minister, but which has autonomy, with headquarters on the ground. A mission unit that looks at the people, the territory, the businesses and that can, with its own strength and based on the ground, facilitate, bring the means and the money to and help this priority of reconstruction. We propose a unit led by a strong regional or national personality that can do so. Then you need to look at your health. We have been in these last two days, and we will be again today in fire-affected areas and we know that, in addition to the physical health problems and injuries, there is a generalized post-traumatic stress in the victims, which therefore requires psychological support. Someone needs to look at the victims, their families, children and give them the necessary support. Tax measures are, of course, also needed, including the deduction in the IRS of anything reconstruction. Support is needed for the recovery of productive sectors, industries, and some of them are completely destroyed, and agriculture. And obviously this whole matter cannot be accounted for in any way in terms of deficit. We believe, moreover, that from what we have seen and from what we have been seeing, from the global fires that we have had this summer, that the announced financial envelopes only fall for being scarce. This is because we have found completely destroyed, completely razed industries and any repairs to any of those industries have a value of millions. So we have the notion that there are hundreds of affected companies and entire agricultural areas completely devastated. The priority is to recover and look at people. Rebirth from ashes is the first of the priorities. But on the other hand, it is of course also to make better forestry planning and management, to think about the future — this part, for us, is very important. We should look at the territory in another way. We must have solutions that call on the owners to join together, to come together and to give size and scale so that the territory can be better ordered. We must guarantee these same owners income from the year zero, from the first year of this initiative. We must, of course, diversify the various forest species, ensuring greater balance and thus greater efficiency in forest management and management. Finally, we have very important proposals, from our point of view, for what has failed, and it has utterly failed to protect. in this respect, we cannot enter into a discussion between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters. We need, in fact, a highly professional fireman's body, as we need better divers, but we can't rule out volunteer firemen, we even have to stimulate volunteering and, to that end, we propose the creation of a social card for volunteers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u31	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u32	It is proposed: a greater involvement of the Armed Forces, we agree; a management made by the Air Force, we also agree; a better vocational training, we agree; and merit criteria, with course, in training in the Civil Protection itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u34	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we will be demanding, collaborators but demanding, because that is what happened, so requires us to remember these 64 victims of Pedrogão Grande, in August, and the memory of those who died on 14 and 15 October. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u35	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I want to leave a greeting to the families of the victims of the fires and tell them that they can count on our solidarity, but above all on our action. Secondly, I would like to thank the Independent Technical Commission, which has produced a report of great importance and which has helped us deeply in our discussions. After hundreds of thousands of fiery hectares, lost human lives, homes, infrastructures and destroyed companies, a huge national anguish in the face of the drama and the suffering caused, a new political dichotomy in the field of forest emerges. There are those who believe that it is essential to deal with short-term problems, the tape of time, because medium- and long-term problems can well be expected. In fact, it's a big tape. This is the trap where the forest has been entangled over decades, at least 20 years ago, since the approval of the Forest Bases Law. Little or no progress has been made, and the basic regional forestry plans have not been able to see the light of the day. For everyone, I think this is unquestionable, priority is the support of victims, the restoration of productive capacity and the cleaning of perimeters around the population cores. This is unquestionable. But it will not be by chance that the right focuses essentially on the short term, on the tape of time. The right, if, on the one hand, politically exploits the tragedy, on the other hand, escapes its own responsibilities for the chaotic state of forest planning and management, for the abandonment of the interior and maintains all loyalty to the interests that mark it in this debate. The report of the Independent Technical Commission is perennial on this issue by stating that, if some of the recommendations have short-term applicability, « (...) the conversion, not only of the ability to intervene in the forest but also of the fight against fires (... ), is a multifaceted process that must be adopted progressively in the medium and long term(...) ». Unfortunately, the right is feeding the narrative that conversion and structural changes in the forest will decrease the yield of producers. Try to induce the idea that a forest with fewer areas of eucalyptus and pine monoculture is less profitable. It's fake! The report of the Independent Technical Commission notes that « (...) continuous stains of mixtures (... ), pine and eucalyptus, unfortunately common in poor management situations, is the recipe, sooner or later, for disaster». Only an orderly, healthy, diverse and multifunctional forest can have economic rationality and sustainability. at the end of hundreds of thousands of hectares burned this is increasingly evidence. The myth of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus as a condition for the profitability of the forest is made of cacos. Don't insist on it, please! The Technical Commission is very clear on these matters. It recommends changes in the conditions of forest management and management, a new strategy and a new institutional framework of the forest protection system against fires and adjustments in the structure of structural prevention and civil protection. In fact, to turn off the short term of the long-term medium is to withdraw effectiveness from prevention and combat and compromise the future of the forest. The Left Block has made a decisive contribution to forest reform, considering it, however, insufficient. The Left Block will therefore present a package of legislative initiatives with new proposals complementing those previously made. The country needs an agency for integrated forest management. It is not enough to manage the fires, it is necessary to manage the rural area in an integrated way. The defence of the forest must be associated with a programme for the development of the interior and rural territories. There is a need for a change in the strategic axis of national defence, moving it further to the civil defense system. That is, without fear, allocate resources to build a civil protection system with its own hierarchy and advanced technical means based on advanced knowledge and research. The Armed Forces must compete only with one additional mission in line with what is proposed by the Technical Commission. Legal responsibility must be given to the authorities so that they have the initiative of cleaning and fuel management of the population and housing perimeters. The financing of fire prevention operations should not count on the calculation of the level of indebtedness of the authorities. It is urgent to review the objectives and finalise the regional forest planning plans, in accordance with the National Forest Inventory and with the experiences taken from forest fires and the conclusions of the reports. Small agroforestry producers should be paid by environmental services and ecosystem preservation through the common agricultural policy. Finally, it is necessary to involve and to listen to populations in the planning of prevention operations. It comes from prevention of backs aimed at those who live there, for those who work there and for those who know the territory. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot proclaim the decarbonization of the economy and society, invest in renewable energies and, at the same time, maintain a forest that, rather than capture carbon, releases tons of CO2 to the atmosphere, contributes to global warming, decreases soil moisture, causes extreme drought, soil erosion, contamination of water masses and extreme weather phenomena, all this in snowball. We have no right to succeed in the necessary changes in the forest. The lives of so many people do not allow us to have that margin of error. The country does not want and does not endure decades of abandonment and devastation. This is our responsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u37	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I begin by reaffirming the solidarity of the CFP with the victims and their families. The scale of the forest fires tragedy this year requires public services and the Government to pay attention, monitor and provide resources and resources that cannot be neglected and will have all monitoring and scrutiny on the part of the CFP. These were fires in which temperature, dry conditions and winds were combined that boosted the catastrophe at levels never before seen. But these conditions and their effects must be analysed in the appropriate framework of the Portuguese forest — its state and its evolution — in the rural world, in family agriculture, in the forced abandonment of the interior and in the State structures responsible for its defence and for combating fires. The reality and the reports, in particular the report of the Independent Commission set up in the Assembly of the Republic and today discussed, reaffirm that the serious problem is in the absence of forest planning, non-compliance with prevention and security measures, non-dipartmentation of forests — the so-called 'primary and secondary network of fuel management bands' — in the creation of forest mosaics, preventing forest on a continuous basis, in the existence of excessive species more conducive to the spread of fires and in the residual presence of fire-resistant species, as well as in the depopulation of the country's interior, which has reduced agricultural space, increasing and intensifying the forest. That is why we also want to say that we do not accept the idea that the small owners are to blame. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u39	All those who for decades have done everything in this House, in the government or in the European Union to attack small agriculture, to expel hundreds of thousands from the rural world and from the interior, to eliminate hundreds of thousands of farms, have now blamed those who have been mistreating the rural world for all these years, now with new field workers. It is clear that there are no ideological and media campaigns that divert us from the defense of the rural world, family agriculture and the small and medium-sized owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u41	Those who want to promote the concentration of land put their eyes on what gave the monoculture it craves, as well as we will not accept any further attacks on the Community property of the buckets, which has also been neglected over the years. The baldiums are not public property and whatever approaches it will be rejected by the PCP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not the lack of a legislative framework that was lacking in the forest. The forest fire protection law defines the fuel management tracks and the protection tracks. There are specific legislation on residential registration, at least since 1995. If there are no forest guards today and if of the 1200 workers of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et des Forestas) almost 75% are over 50 years old, this is due to ideological concepts of minimal state, which have spread the theory that the State was the cause of the country's problems. In the face of the tragedy, the Portuguese felt in the skin the result of the closure of health services, GNR posts or the extinction of fregueses. These were the options that ended the forest guards, who left the national forests without human resources to do management and that led to the lack of a protection and security policy in which populations know how to act and where to seek shelter in disaster situations. The forest services have already been at the forefront of forest policy in our country, the attack on public services and their dismantling have removed that role. Therefore, to dignify the services and workers of the ICNF is not only fair as essential. All those who defend the politics of the minimal state, all those who, by their political action, have closed services, have extinguished institutions, have reduced workers in public services and now say that the State has failed are also responsible for the disaster. The tragedy has shown that its options do not serve the country and have failed in turn. That is exactly why we do not accept that the blame should be placed in the State, as we have seen from all the other seats, without exception, to do. The state did not fail, which failed were the policies developed by PS, PSD and CDS. The state has broad backs, but the culprits are all identified in the galleries of successive governments. The road has been on for a long time. The evaluation of the report of the Independent Technical Commission, because of its complexity, of the contradictions involved in the evaluation, by the size and scope requires a weighting that is not consistent with the rush that is put in order to decide on some measures. for our part, we record its content as a contribution, but we do not forget the other two public-made reports, that of the Center for Forest Fire Studies and that of the Center for Studies and Intervention in Civil Protection, nor do we shut down the reports of the fire vacancies of past years, notably of 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2013, and of the reports of other major fires that took place this summer and October 15. The problems have long been identified. Today it is more visible to its existence because it has become unbearable to face them. The problem of forest fires in Portugal is action. For many years there was no excuse for the lack of consensus between the different parties, only broken by the previous PSD/CDS government, with the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arboring actions (RJAAR) and with the law of baldiums. And inaction was due to the desire not to affect the necessary financial resources. What was missing was the financial resources, and this is also not off the political option of those who put obedience to Brussels above all. We cannot spend, because the deficit, the debt, the goals, the treaties, do not advise. This is the formula for preventing a better life, from forests, to incomes, passing through rights. Only by admitting this rule and its advocates an exception: financial capital. If it's a bank you need, then all the rules can be suspended.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u42	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u43	Therefore, the forest needs action, decision-making, financial support, there will need to be adequate financial support already enshrined in the next State budget and other instruments. The CFP has never failed to discuss, alert, proposals. In 1980, he proposed the first law to defend the forest against fires and the creation of the ZIFs (forest intervention zones ), which would only be created 25 years later. In 1990 it proposed the creation of integrated forest defence and development plans. In 1994, for the first time, he proposed a law on the basis of forest development, which was the first step towards the Basic Law on Forest Policy. Different committees and working groups came from the CFP initiative. The PCP was the first to present a bill to support the victims of the Pedrógão Grande forest fires and neighbouring municipalities, which gave rise to the law already approved and extended to other affected municipalities, also by proposal of the PCP. The CFP has already delivered legislative initiatives on fuel management programmes and the price of wood materials to the Assembly of the Republic. The PCP has been insisting that the price at which wood is paid is the touch element to stimulate forest management. He also delivered a project on the reforestation and enhancement of Pinhal de Leiria. The report by the Independent Technical Commission makes clear the need for more means for prevention and combat. Those who have not secured these means so far have their responsibility already ensured. Whoever denies them from here will have no excuse. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u44	For an intervention, Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word must, of course, be to reaffirm the solidarity of the Socialist Party with all the victims and their families and also to greet the Independent Technical Commission, which has produced the report we are discussing today. This report, from the initiative of the Assembly of the Republic, is the result of an initial proposal from the PSD, which has merited the acceptance of all parliamentary groups and to which the Government has understood and well linked itself. So respect is imposed on him by the victims and their families and by all those on the ground who fought, up to the limit of their forces, an implacable and brutal enemy. We now know of the true science that we were facing a fire that "(...) showed extreme phenomena of fire behavior(...)" in a territory whose characteristics favor the occurrence of large fires. All of this occurred in the middle of a heat wave, after an extremely dry spring and winter, combined with structural prevention failures, but also operational failures at various levels, including the communication system. If doubts existed that we were faced with one of the most complex fire scenarios that ever occurred in Portugal, this Report will ultimately clarify them. Therefore, and as I said here on 29 June, « (...) the dimension of what happened does not support opportunistic approaches or illegitimate uses». And if this was true in June, it continues to be true in October, even after the situation experienced a few days ago, when we watch, sadly, the repetition of the tragedy. I am convinced that a fine analysis of this most recent episode will allow us to draw conclusions very similar to those found in this report. Without squambling or devaluing, at no time, the operational and other failures signalled by the Commission and, at least, the clearance of any associated responsibilities, it is very important that we concentrate on the essential. This is, above all, the time for action and response. It is time to compensate the victims, recover and rebuild the devastated territories and promote the necessary reforms so that these situations do not repeat themselves. The Government has been on the ground since the first hour and has taken measures and granted concrete support to the affected populations, as was its obligation. The Prime Minister has, of course, committed himself to initiating, in parallel with the forest reform, then already underway, a process of reform in the protection and relief sectors, the fight against fires and the way to articulate structural prevention with operational prevention and operational response to disasters. The Government has taken the conclusions and recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, which, in addition to having collected unanimity within the Commission, are the result of the parliamentary consensus and thus also respond to the appeal of the President of the Republic. The Resolution of the Council of Ministers of the past 21 shows that the Government has been able to meet the circumstances, demonstrating the capacity and initiative needed to respond to the problems. It did so, by strengthening short-term measures, to address situations of greater individual suffering, social and economic gravity, and at the same time highlighted the need for discernment to promote a wide range of structural reforms. No one would understand, in fact, that, in the face of a tragedy with this dimension and consequences, the government would allow itself to be involved in a game of pass-through and exchange of accusations, to the detriment of the attention due to the people and their territories. It would also be incomprehensible that the reforms of the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations were carried out outside the structures that have always protected people and goods, in particular firefighter associations, which have been, and are often the only defense of the territories and their populations. in the same way that it will be a mistake, already committed in the past, to place all the expectations and responsibilities for solving the problems in one or another institution in particular, such as the Armed Forces, which so many and so good services have provided to the country and whose commitment here I am taking advantage of to greet. In both cases, the availability presented must be worked out with everyone in order to find the means and models that best fit their participations in the future system. On the other hand, the Commission's report also tells us that forest fires are not just a problem of territorial heritage, geographical position, forest management or civil protection and operational response. If so, with the means and investments already made in the last 15 years, the problem should be controlled in acceptable standards. Unfortunately, despite some progress, what this year and the report prove and that we could painfully see was that the phenomenon of fires, the result of climate change and the abandonment of the territory, is increasingly brutal, with areas burned to reach stratospheric numbers and, above all, with an unacceptable number of victims. That is why we cannot be distracted by the underlying problem, which lies mainly in the abandonment of the territory and its causes. If we fight them, we fight human desertification and fight the problem at its deepest roots. Therefore, it is imperative to understand well what has happened and to deal with it, too, as a great opportunity to look at this forgotten country and to assume the commitment to build a new paradigm of development for the interior and for areas of low density, which goes beyond the traditional bureaucratic response and the restoration of the situation prior to the catastrophe. It is necessary to give new attention to the planning of the territory, to create the foundations of a new economy around the forest line and the rural world, capable of ensuring profitability for farms, making them economically viable and creating attractive conditions that justify the fixing of populations. We therefore know how to correct the journey and what is required of us today by the Portuguese, especially those who live and work in the affected territories, who need our attention, not only to repair damage but also, above all, to be able to hope for the future of their communities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u46	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: It will never be too much to remember the tragic fires that took place in Portugal this year. Remembering these tragedies is to keep in mind those who have lost their lives, but it is also to prevent the future, a future where the State cannot fail, as it has failed. The state failed. He failed not only once but twice in four months. He failed to help and help the people and failed in the efficient fight against fires. It is with this awareness that there has been a serious failure that the State must face the rural fires of 2017. The government and the majority who support it cannot continue to pretend that failure and responsibilities are only forest, forest reform. We need to go further. In order for the State not to fail again, it must improve the errors and shortcomings, as well as described in the report of the Independent Technical Commission, and it must also withdraw the teachings of what has happened, taking advantage of this moment of reconstruction of a land devastated by flames to implement more effective models in the fight and more sustainable and viable in prevention. The recent history of the action of this government and this majority shows that everything has to be different. After the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, after all that happened, after the criticisms of the autarchs, of the populations, of many politicians who went there and said that there was discoordination, the response of the government and the majority was easy: responsibility is the lack of forest reform. After the various tragedies of October 15, the Prime Minister, on television, answered again: responsibility is the lack of forest reform. Did it ever happen to you in the head of the Prime Minister and in the conscience of this majority that the biggest problem would have been in the fight against and the lack of civil protection? Mrs. Members, first of all, the tragic events were not only the fault of the forest, it was not the fault of the inhabitants of the rural areas, who, as someone said, had to go out to fight the fires, it was not the fault of the small and medium-sized forest producers, who, heroically, live in depressed regions, it was the fault, yes, of the discoordination and the fight. That is what is clear in the report we are discussing today. Secondly, if it was the fault of the lack of forest reform, then the government, in its response, was very short and very weak, because the measures it wanted to take did not fit the size of the problem. Just changing the forest, it was the only response that this government and this majority wanted to give to the fires that happened. And just look at the fires of 2016, where they burned, between the woods and the villages, 160 000 ha. What was the answer? Let's do a forest reform. Well, today, a year ago and with more than 500 000 ha of burning forest, what happened? There is no forest reform, there is no change in combat. It went on anyway. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u48	Mrs. Members, although the Government has never admitted it, to hide its incompetence in the management of the fight against forest fires, the problem has never been, and will never be, only of the forestry order. It's, yeah, the combat mechanism. The arrogant attitude of this government and this majority must change. It is time to accept constructive proposals that the society has already submitted, that the opposition has already presented and that you have stubbornly rejected. It was the case of the single command proposal, which the PSD presented in July, and as was the case of the creation of a biodiversity stock exchange for the promotion of different protection ranges and forest spots, also in July. It is time for the government to stop hiding in the territory and in the forests and to face up to its responsibilities, past and future, welcoming the ideas of the report today under discussion, welcoming the ideas of the PSD and other political parties. Just together, we can change. We must face the territory with a more inclusive view, creating new opportunities for the rural world and, in particular, those who have lost everything because of a serious failure of the state. It's time, ladies. Members of the Government and the majority of Parliament, to stop trying to hide the shortcomings that have existed and to respond clearly to the calls of the Commission's report, both at the level of knowledge, involving fire technicians, both at the level of human resources and at the level of professional competence, both at the level of combat operations, improving communications and involving the Armed Forces. Mrs. Members, what happened this year was clearly a problem of civil protection, a problem in combating and coordinating the media, a problem whose responsibility is exclusive to this Government and the Prime Minister, who, by fleeing their responsibilities and their duty to change what is wrong, when these tragedies happened, just said that they would repeat and that the Portuguese people would have to get used to them. Don't! No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! No, sir. Ministers! Neither the PSD nor the Portuguese will get used to the failure of the State in this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u50	The State cannot continue to fail the Portuguese, the State has to change its way of acting. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u51	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The evaluation of the report of the Independent Technical Commission is ahead of time and a great deal of coincidence has been found in the speeches made by the Members of the various parliamentary groups. I believe that they are feelings common to all, that of humility in the face of tragedy and responsibility that we must all share in order to find, effectively and in due time, the answers that the country demands from us and that we have a fundamental duty to lend, particularly to the victims of the tragedy of fires and their families. But I would like to note, as a final observation of this assessment, that in particular on the PS bench, and it has also been heard from the Government, that there is a complex set of responses that must be given: of course, greater efficiency of civil protection; of course, revision of fire control mechanisms; but also prevention, Mrs. Members, which is absolutely fundamental and which is linked, in particular, to the aspect of forest reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u54	What Mr Nuno Serra has just said was the statement of a unilateral view of the problem, because he wanted to conclude that there is no problem with the reform of the forest in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u55	That was the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u56	... I wanted to conclude that there is no forest planning problem, I wanted to conclude that, in the face of climate challenges, in the face of extreme drought problems, in the face of the problems of abandonment of the interior, we do not really have the challenge—because we have! — an integrated policy, which we have a duty to have in the name of a principle of national cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Carlos Abreu Amorim and Nuno Serra.]] That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware and are faced with the integrated response to this whole set of problems that we want to continue to believe in solidarity among all of us, in particular by putting our hands on the PSD bench as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u57	Yeah, that was good, putting your hand on your conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u58	Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The conclusion we can reach is that the right has in fact learned nothing from what has happened in recent times in Portugal. You didn't learn anything at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u60	What a shame! You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u61	To continue to insist that this is just a problem of combat is not wanting to change anything in the forest, and that is the essential issue. [[PSD protests.]] The essential question is to change the forest, to reform the forest, and that is where the danger of fires in our country can be reduced. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u62	Read the report! Read the report!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u63	To say that the answer is only forest reform is to challenge what is essential to combat fires, to fight abandonment, to fight the desertification of the interior. It is indeed necessary to have an integrated response to these matters. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] The forest is not just a sum of trees that need to have a plan to prevent fires, it is much more than that, the forest is territory, it is a social context, it is an economic and environmental context. The right can reach the end of this debate and not recognize any of this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u64	Have shame! Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u65	... and continue to make the same mistakes, only with one objective: to avoid responsibilities for the chaos to which the forest came, for the situation we live.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u66	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u67	I conclude now, Mr President. The necessary consensus in this Parliament is only one: that of the need to change the forest and strengthen and reform the means of combat. But there are no means of combat capable of facing devastating fires if the forest is no longer resistant to climate change, if it is no longer resistant to these devastating fires that we have suffered in recent times in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u68	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u69	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u70	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u71	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u72	Mr President, this last intervention of the Left Block has become clear to the whole plenary and to the country that the Left Block should not have received the report of the Independent Technical Commission that is being discussed today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u73	It has been distributed by me to all parliamentary groups. This is not an inquiry into the conduct of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u74	I therefore asked the Bureau to distribute it urgently to the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u75	Mr President, what you have just done was not an inquiry into the conduct of the work and I can assure you that this report has been distributed by the Bureau in a timely manner to all parliamentary groups. at this time BE Pedro Soares presented the report of the Independent Technical Commission. [[PSD protests.]] To close the debate, I call on Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development, Capoulas Santos, to whom I ask you to wait a few seconds for peace and his intervention to be audible. [[Pause.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : by making the final intervention on behalf of the Government in this debate too, and first of all, I would like to address a clear word of greeting and solidarity to the families of the victims present here and to tell them that the best we can do — all the government, all the institutions of the Republic, all the country — to pay tribute to their memory is to repair the damage and recover the devastated areas as quickly as possible. The Government, from the first hour, accepted the PSD proposal to set up an Independent Technical Commission on the Pedrogon tragedy and, having not indicated any of its members, also declared from the outset that it would accept and implement its main conclusions and recommendations. It was in this sense that the Government was meeting two or three days after the report was presented. Only with the minimum time to read it carefully did the Council of Ministers meet extraordinaryly for 12 hours to adopt a set of decisions, not only for the immediate response to the tragedy but also to look forward to the future, adopting a set of measures that come with the exact indication of what the Independent Technical Commission recommends. And I take this opportunity to thank the work of this Commission, because, in the context where the report was produced and in the short time it had available, I imagine how difficult it would have been to produce such a complete and so well-developed document. We will now move towards civil protection reform, a reform that obviously lacks national consensus. I am very sorry that the PSD insists on its position as a constant Azedume, even in these circumstances and faced with a theme of this greatness, but this does not prevent me from making the appeal again either for the reform of civil protection or for the reform of the forest, because they are interdependent realities. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It is not possible to prevent disasters in the future without these two reforms moving forward, because the more advanced the reform of the most unnecessary forest will be the means allocated to combat.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u77	But what can we do if they don't accept our proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u78	Mr President of the Republic has repeatedly insisted on the need for a regime pact and I wanted here on behalf of the Government to insist again, to call again, at least for once and before a problem that everyone and everyone is ashamed of, it is possible, finally, to implement what the country requires of us, which is in the sense that such tragedies do not happen again in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u79	at the end of this debate, and on behalf of the Bureau, I wanted to associate myself with the words of solidarity with the families of the victims and also those of thanks to the Independent Technical Commission and its President, João Guerreiro, present in the rostrum. [[General applause.]] Mrs. Members, we move on to the second item on the agenda, with the joint assessment of petition No 248 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the intervention of the RA to extend the deadline for the application of the transitional scheme for the allocation of professional ballots in the professions of the TNCs, both for professionals who started their professional activity after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September applying the same rules as laid down in Ordinance No 181 / 2014 of 12 September as well as for students who attend and complete their formations ( EU-TNC — Union of Non-Conventional Therapeutic Students) of the projects of lein. 648 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September regulating Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 on the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities, amending the scheme for the allocation of professional ballot papers ( PAN), 650 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recognizes and defines the figure of specialist for integration into the teaching body and teaching in the cycles of studies leading the degree of undergraduate in non-conventional therapies ( makes the second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September) ( BE) and 652 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — extends the transitional period for the assignment of a certificate for the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities to whom it has completed its training after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September) ( BE), in general, and draft resolution No 1093 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the Central Health System Administration, IP ( ACSS, IP ) open a new period of submission of applications for the issue of professional ballots intended only for those trained in non-conventional therapies that have completed their courses after 2 October 2013 ( CDS-PP ). To open the debate, with the presentation of the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 71 / 2013, which regulates access to professions in the field of non-conventional therapies, makes access to these, necessarily, dependent on the degree of licensee, and its exercise is permitted only to professional card holders. in these terms, it was granted to professionals who were exercising this activity a period of six months from the regulations of the Act to apply for the license with the CASS, IP ( Central Health System Administration, IP ), having ended in February 2016. The existence of such a short period of time and the mandatory exercise of activity on the date of registration made it impossible for many professionals to register, and the position of those who were still doing their training, who were still studying, was not duly guarded. Thus, with matters still to be regulated and given the need to guarantee the legitimate expectations of the graduates, as well as of the current students, we present today a bill that aims to allow the allocation of professional ballots, on the one hand, to all professionals who have started their professional activity before the entry into force of the Law and who could not apply for their professional license with the ACCSS, IP until February 2016 and, on the other hand, to all those who have completed their training after the entry into force of the Law, provided that they make the request until the exit of the first licensee in each of the areas of non-conventional therapies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the NAP will continue to be with these professionals, who have been fighting for several years for the regulation of the profession, and we hope that Parliament will take another step in this direction today. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u81	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to present the initiatives of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to greet the more than 14 000 petitioners who bring to Parliament a very specific problem and claim to the Assembly of the Republic the solution to this problem. The Left Block brings to the discussion two bills that represent this same solution. Perhaps we should start the discussion by explaining what is at stake. The 2013 Act, which regulates non-conventional therapies, stipulates, and well, that from the entry into force of the Law only licensed can access the professional certificate and therefore may exercise the profession of non-conventional therapists. The same Law also provides for a transitional standard for those who already practiced the profession before 2013 could require, with ACSS, the issue of the professional certificate, and the process was based on an analysis of their training curriculum and their professional experience. It happens that since 2013, four years ago, the regulation of non-conventional therapies continues to be done. There are courses of studies that have not yet been published, courses of adaptation of schools to higher education institutions that have not yet been published and there is no opening of degrees for the various non-conventional therapies. These delays cause a problem for those who want to be formed in this area that, for a long time, and still today, there is almost no other option than the schools that existed before and therefore, almost there are no more graduates. Now, this has actually caused a hiatus to be created, because pre-2013 professionals can access professional certificates, professionals who come to include a bachelor's degree, after graduation, can access professional ballots, but all students and professionals who stay in the middle, despite having thousands of hours of training, even though they are in stage, can't access their diplomas and, therefore, cannot practice their profession. What the Left Block proposes is that a new transitional standard be made so that all students, after the entry into force of the 2013 Law and until the departure of the first licensee in each area, may request their professional license from the ACSS in order to be able to exercise their profession. Very quickly, I mean that the Left Block brings another project that, for us, is fundamental because it will facilitate and enhance the creation of undergraduates. These licences are fundamental to the effective regulation of the Law and to the effective dignification of these professions. Our proposal is very simple: that it is established and allowed for a period of five years the figure of specialist and that this specialist can fit into what is the teaching framework of universities, so that undergraduates in the areas of non-conventional therapy are a reality in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u83	It is now CDS-PP time. For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 71 / 2013, as mentioned above, regulated the access and exercise of the profession in the field of non-conventional therapies and introduced, and well, the obligation to obtain the degree of licensee and their professional diploma, issued by the Central Health Services Administration. This Law provided for a transitional period for applications for the issue of ballot papers by professionals who were on that date to exercise activity, a period which depended, as has already been mentioned here, on the regulation of the professions concerned, which ended on 19 February 2016. It turns out that, unfortunately, this whole process has been a huge slowdown and that regulation is actually slowing down. On the other hand, the Law did not prejudge the process of issuing ballot papers for all those who were formed after the entry into force of the Law, and therefore there has been a set of newly trained — all those who have completed their formation after 2 October 2013 — for whom the Law is omitted and are therefore prevented from applying for their license to ACSS, which seems to us, CDS, a situation of negative discrimination. That is what the petitioners of petition no. 248 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), here present and which I take advantage of to greet. For this reason, the CDS, which has always been involved in the regulation of non-conventional therapies, believes that these professionals should not be prevented from applying for the issue of their professional license, thus opening up a period of submission of professional certificates, without prejudice, of obviously, to the fulfilment of the validation of all subsequent legal requirements for the issue of the licences by ACCS. with regard to the accreditation of courses, the CDS has always been guided by the demand, rigor and quality, both teaching and professionals, and given that we are dealing with health professions this question is even more acute. On the other hand, we also respect the institutions and their independence, so, as we have already had the opportunity to state on other occasions, it is the A3ES (Assessment and Accreditation Agency for Higher Education) which is responsible for the accreditation of courses and educational institutions. We recognize that there has been a lot of slowness in this process, that this slowness may be harming many professionals and students and that the whole process should be more rapid. We also recognize that there should be an enormous effort to combine the will of all those involved in this process in order to take this whole process to good port, with the speed that is required, so that these professionals can complete their studies cycles, validate their trainings and thus value these professions. In short, while respecting the independence of the institutions, the CDS presents this draft resolution in order to redress the injustice of this group of newly trained people cannot submit the application for a professional certificate to ACSS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u85	It's now the PSD time. Mrs Laura Monteiro Magalhães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss petition No 248 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) as well as a set of diplomas in the field of the professional exercise of the TNCs, non-conventional therapies. This petition, signed by more than 14 000 citizens, promoted by the Union of TNC Students, which I now welcome...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u88	... intends that the period of application of the transitional scheme for the allocation of professional certificates in the field of non-conventional therapies be extended to all professionals who have started their activity after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013, which regulates access to professions within the scope of the NCTs. This claim is based on the fact that the period for the submission of applications for professional ballots to ACSS, the Central Health System Administration, the body of the Ministry of Health responsible for the allocation or not of these applications has ended in February 2016. Since these professions were not regulated within the prescribed time limit, all professionals who completed their training after October 2013 were prevented from applying for professional certificates. in the understanding of the PSD, the professionals who are in the transitional period find an unjustified difficulty to obtain professional ballots. We therefore consider it legitimate to claim that the deadline for the application of the transitional scheme for the allocation of these professional ballots should be extended, as the Government has once again failed, because it should have already resolved this situation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u89	We recall that it has been almost a year since this Parliament made a recommendation to the Government to ensure proper follow-up to the implementation of Law No 71/2013, safeguarding the legitimate expectations of these professionals. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD deals with the petitioners' claims. It's a matter of justice. It is not acceptable for a significant number of trainees to continue in this limbo which limits the possibilities of professional achievement and, on the other hand, does not contribute to the preservation of public health and the safety of health activities itself. As regards the figure of specialist for integration into the teaching body, presented here by the Left Block, we once again find that the existing handicaps are only and exclusively held by the inertia of this left-wing Government. In fact, the same is stated in the bill itself presented by the Block of the Left, its partner of governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u91	It is therefore up to the left to resolve this impasse through the regulation of the Act. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u92	For an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the subscribers of petition No 248 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), whose object is in the professional framework of graduates in non-conventional post-October 2013 therapies, in the context of the interpretation of the application of the transitional provision of Law No 71 / 2013 for the purpose of assigning professional ballots. This Law regulated access and exercise to these professions and in Article 19. it provides for a transitional provision in order to safeguard the expectations of the professionals concerned at the date of the entry into force of that law. However, the same PSD/CDS-PP government that published the Law in 2013 did not regulate it within 180 days, as mandatory, thus determining that they would remain outside this scheme of assigning professional ballots all those who started the activity after 2 October 2013 as well as all those who will finish their training over the following years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u94	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u95	Thus, there is a commitment to the future of students and professionals in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The gray zone in which they are, due to the non-resolution of this problem, affects these professionals, but not only these professionals, who are in an irregular situation. It affects the State, because it places professionals to discount improperly ; it affects the objective of Law No. 71 / 2013 itself, because it does not ensure that all professionals in TNCs have the proper academic conditions ; it affects the Ministry of Health and the ACSS, because they effectively fail to have the protection of an objective record of the number of professionals to work in the area. But, above all, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it affects users who make use of the TNCs by failing to safeguard their objectives and safety in relation to the responsibility of those who are certified and those who are not. We actually have a problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is urgent, therefore, to resolve this by complying with the resolutions adopted by this House in order to safeguard the public health of Portuguese and that these professionals can exercise their activity in conditions of safety and accountability. But it is also urgent that the current diplomas in question do not contradict all and any good practice, thus hampering the quality and current laws of higher education. We cannot, by administrative means, legalize illegal courses, putting them side by side with the current graduates approved by A3ES, thus constituting a form of unfair competition and thus altering the legislative architecture of higher education and its credibility. This is why the Socialist Party, while recognizing the existence of a problem, will not give cover to a profound blow in the legislative framework of higher education, nor will it question the public health of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u96	by the PCP, you now have the floor to Mrs Carla Cruz for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the more than 14 000 citizens who have subscribed to the petition, who want an interpretation of the scope of the transitional provision of Law No 71 / 2013. This is not the first time that the Assembly of the Republic is called to discuss issues of access and professional practice of non-conventional therapies. This is due to the fact that successive PS, PSD and CDS governments — yes, Mrs Laura Magalhães of the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u98	And the left-wing government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u99	... including the current government — have neglected the regulation. We have said in previous discussions and today we reaffirm that the central aspects of the regulation are of the strict competence of the Government rather than of the Assembly. In view of the absence of Article 19 ( 1 ) and ( 6 ) regulations. the, there are many professionals who at the date of the publication of the Law were not yet working because they were being trained and therefore could not apply for the professional certificate, just as there are students who started the post-September 2013 training and who, like the first ones, cannot apply for the issue of professional ballots. This situation naturally causes embarrassment to students who have completed the training and harm the legitimate expectation created by the Law that all conditions would be met for the exercise of their activity. in these circumstances, we understand the claim of petitioners in order to change the transitional period. It follows, however, that the legislative initiatives dealing with this matter do not fully solve the legal vacuum that has been created, in particular, because they leave out schools, central parts for the quality of training provided. with regard to the solution adopted for those who can access professional ballots, and I quote, "until the first graduate", we have serious doubts and it seems to us that it can create inequalities in relation to the treatment given to other professions. regarding the Block initiative, on the award of the title of specialist, we understand the particularities associated with these activities and the problem that is created with the absence of teachers and doctors in these areas. It does not seem to us that the proposed solution is the most appropriate and correct, insofar as there may be the understanding that there is an administrative treatment for these areas, which has no further area of knowledge. We reiterate that the CFP advocates that regulatory matters are of the greatest importance not only to professionals but above all to those who resort to non-conventional therapies. But we cannot accept that, in the absence of this regulation, the Assembly of the Republic produces laws that create conflict and unequal treatment between professions, so we will continue to demand that the Government regulate the laws with the necessary speed, taking account of the interests of professionals, as of all those who resort to non-conventional therapies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u100	The Bureau no longer registers. [[Pause.]] We assume that this item on the agenda is closed. We then move on to the third point, concerning the discussion of petition No 257 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request discussion of the issue of chemtrails by the Assembly of the Republic and the adoption of the necessary measures by the Government ( James of Jesus Lopes and others). The Bureau shall not register any entries. I wonder if we can move forward in the agenda. [[Pause.]] They finally begin to sign up. I shall once again appeal to the banks to register before the entry into the agenda item. Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wish to greet, in the person of Mr Tiago de Jesus Lopes, the more than 4000 subscribers to petition No 257 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), which is appreciated today, which calls for discussion of the issuechemtrails in the Assembly of the Republic and for the adoption of the necessary measures by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this subject, some call conspiracy theory, others say that these are real facts. The question to be asked should be: does this debate make sense in the House's Hemicycle? But this is also the demonstration that all topics are discussed and the citizens really have access to the Assembly. Everyone will draw their conclusions about the facts here, because there is no scientific evidence from them except what we all know, that aircraft tracks really cause climate change and air pollution. On the other hand, everyone will draw their conclusions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u102	On behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Álvaro Castello-White has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the petitioners on behalf of the CDS in the person of the first subscriber, and of course thank you for their contribution to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, what is perceived from the content of the text of petition No 257 / XIII ( 2. ( a) the main intention of the petitioners, with this initiative, was precisely that the Assembly of the Republic should include the issue of chemtrails in its agenda. Thus, the petitioners contributed to environmental issues and, consequently, fulfilled democracy, they carried out the citizenship task of bringing a subject that concerns them for this fundamental forum of political debate and regulation of Portuguese reality. Therefore, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the CDS, I would like to thank you for this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u104	by the Socialist Party, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I begin by congratulating all and all the citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are debating today. The right of petition is a universal right and is provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. As is certainly the knowledge of the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members, it is because more than 4000 citizens have subscribed to this document which is discussed at a plenary meeting of the Assembly of the Republic, after the proper formal assessment by the Committee on the Environment. The subject of the petition, in its essence, concerns a fact or matter which has no scientific proof of any kind until today. There is no substantiated evidence to support the claim of high altitude airspace spraying practice. But this petition may also refer us to the concerns we all share about environmental values, particularly with regard to air quality and the phenomenon of climate change. Fortunately, with only occasional variations, the design of environmental preservation has been supported by all parliamentary groups of the Assembly of the Republic, even at a time when some governments, on a global scale, seem to discourage this agenda of greater relevance to our collective future. I am therefore in the field of climate change, recalling that an important conference will take place in Bonn next November, the COP23, which will focus on the UN Convention, precisely on climate change. In this regard and also in the context of the transforming role that the UN can play in these issues, it is important to refer to Agenda 2030 and the objectives of sustainable development, addressing them as a charter of principles for the cooperation and development of peoples and among peoples. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group reaffirms, as always, its commitment to defending environmental values in a framework of rigour and seriousness. I am sure that the mission of promoting an environmental agenda brings together and mobilizes not only the different political parties represented in this House but also the whole of Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u106	The Bureau no longer registers. Can we conclude that this debate is closed? [[Pause.]] Is it really closed? It's just that there's often this suspense... [[Pause.]] in this case, we will proceed with the fourth point of the order of business, which consists in the assessment of petition No 157 / XIII ( 1. a ) — They request the revision of Law No. 98 / 2015 of 18 August and of Portaria No. 403 - B / 2015 of 13 November ( Set up the new RJOC-Legal System of Ourries and Contrastarias) ( AORP — Association of Ourlands and Watches of Portugal and others), together with draft resolution No. 1099 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the review of the legal regime for goldsmiths and contrasts ( BE ). To present the draft resolution and to begin this debate, Mr Paulino Ascenção, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies: Ourseries and jewelry are activities with a wide tradition in our country and have brought great prestige to the international level. Law No 98 / 2015, which created the new Legal Regime of Ourries and Contrastarias, raised great reservations in the agents of the sector, which therefore met and promoted petition No 157 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which we are debating today. I take advantage to greet all subscribers, in particular those who are present in the galleries. The reservations raised concern the excessive complexity of the regulation, the difficult interpretation and application of the rules. Now, we understand that the Law must be clear and not an obstacle to the entry into the exercise of the activity. The Law favours the large economic operators of this activity, in particular as a result of a bonus scheme which only benefits agents with large volume of parts subject to marking. However, this activity is characterized by the prevalence of small, micro-entities and, therefore, this rule follows a logic of concentration — which we also find in other standards, in legislation relating to other sectors — which harms most operators, which are micro- and small enterprises, and is also an obstacle to entry into activity. The fact that it promotes concentration is still paradoxical in relation to the political forces that are said to be advocates of competition, liberalisation, but which then, in practice, adopt rules that favour concentration rather than competition. Another aspect I would like to stress concerns the fact that the Law does not deal properly with the activity of jewellery artists, the jewellery of author. As everyone will understand, the value of a work of art that contains or does not contain precious metals in its composition is completely different from that of jewellery objects in series production. in the works of art, whether or not to contain a precious metal is not determining for the value. As in a sculpture, what determines its value is not the matter of what is made, if it is metal, if it is stone, in jewellery is equal and therefore it makes no sense to demand the marking of works of art as if they were objects of production in series. More absurd is the requirement to subject to this same marking the artistic creations of foreign authors that are displayed in the context of exhibitions in our country. Let's imagine an art work that circulates in exhibitions by several countries is subject to consecutive markings. It would be destroyed or seriously damaged. These rules should be amended, we recommend this to the Government, and in the review of the diploma, not only the agents of the sector but the public authorities in the field of culture, because it is artistic creation and not only financial matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u108	Mr Fernando Jesus now speaks on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the time the Assembly of the Republic debates petition No 157 / XIII ( 1. a ), with 4015 signatures, submitted by the petitioners of the Association of Goldsmiths and Watches of Portugal, the Portuguese Association of the Goldsmiths Industry, the Association of Traders of Goldsmiths and South Clocks, the Association of Official Evaluators of Goldsmiths and Jewellery, the Portuguese Association of Antiquities, the National Association of Trade and Valorization of the Used Good, the Association of Loanists of Portugal, who request the revision of Law No 98 / 2015 of 18 August establishing the new legal regime of the goldsmiths and contrasts, the PS addresses all petitioners for the excellent contribution they have made to the review of the activity of the sector they represent. We also discuss draft resolution No 1099 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the Left Block, which deals with related matters, in particular the concerns of the jewellery sector. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the text, petitioners make harsh criticisms of Law No 98 / 2015 and defend their review for having brought this diploma to the sector, and I quote, « numerous difficulties», « an extensive, massive law and in so many cases of difficult interpretation ». along the text, the petitioners also make an exhaustive analysis of the diploma, highlighting an immense list of difficulties and constraints. in this framework, the current government, in fact, fulfilling one of its priorities, to make life easier for citizens and businesses, created the Simplex again and amended the Legal Regime of Ourness and Contrastaria, through the publication of Decree-Law No 120 / 2017 of 15 September. in the diploma, the Government met many suggestions submitted by the petitioners, that I highlight: simplification of access to the activity, and economic operators are able to start their activity after the mere prior communication to the Balcão do Empresador ; extends the situations of marking and optional testing, such as some artist articles; simplifies the way in which the items with precious metal are made available for sale, such as the provision of the same articles in the montres and communications to the official entities; eliminates the obligation of existence of an evaluator by each establishment; allows the exposure of articles with precious metal on an occasional basis and sporadic basis with simplified rules; reinforces the supervision, reducing the amount of fines in order to standardize with similar regimes; finally eliminates the minimum rate by lot, as well as the associated bonus regime. With regard to the draft resolution of the Left Block, the PS will vote in favour of it because of the matter which it deserves to be considered by the Government. I refer to the jewelry industry of author and the galleries and exhibition spaces that market it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end, I would like to stress that the Portuguese goldsmithy is an economic sector that has managed to combine tradition and innovation. This sector projects what it has best in traditional arts and crafts, putting them at the centre of an economic strategy for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u110	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u111	I shall conclude, Madam President. With the publication of Decree-Law No. 120 / 2017 and with the changes you have introduced, the russian and watchmaking sector is better regulated and in better conditions for the development of its activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u112	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are debating petition No 157 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and a draft resolution — paragraph 1099 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — the Left Block. First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 4000 petitioners, as well as their associations in the sector — which I was pleased to receive as rapporteur — by the act of citizenship and by the subject which causes the discussion in plenary. The petitioners request the revision of Law No. 98 / 2015 and Portaria No. 403 - B / 2015, which establishes the Legal Regime of Ourvaries and Contrastarias. We understand and recognize the importance of the steel industry, which was a sector of the Portuguese industrial structure with a great tradition in the national economy. It has a great potential for growth, despite a more vulnerable economic situation and international prestige. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a good legislative policy means that, once a legal regime enters into force, an assessment of its impact in order to assess the possible need for adoption or correction of the rules in force will be carried out. The PSD, of course, is available for this discussion, as we have already demonstrated last May with the presentation of draft resolution 836 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) recommending that the Government adopt measures to promote the development of the steel industry and strengthen the contrasts. In particular, we recommended, inter alia, that the Government should assess the legislative impact resulting from the application of the law and, listening to economic agents, review the law. The same was rejected in July, in a plenary vote, with the votes against the PS, the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u114	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u115	... with the argument that the matter was already settled. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if the matter was settled, then what is due to this draft resolution of your partner, Block Left? Are you going to vote in favour? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u116	The Block is now presenting a draft resolution which, although this is hypocrisy, recommends that the Government review the Legal Regime des Oursiasrias and the Contrastarias, taking into account the various claims submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u117	It's the habit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u118	It's time to ask, ladies and gentlemen. Members: why have they not voted in favour of our draft resolution if it had the same meaning that they have now printed?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u120	Why didn't you present it at the time of the committee discussion?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u121	No one understands!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u122	Don't you just want to look good to the petitioners?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u123	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u124	It has already been a habit of extreme-left parties. It should be noted that they are taking this initiative at the time the petition is being discussed in plenary. If not, you would take this initiative, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u125	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u126	Blogger hypocrisy and this left front at its best! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u127	Let's be serious. This is called political opportunism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u128	As the popular saying says, it is appropriate to say: «Look at what I say, do not look at what I do». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u129	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS, I wanted to begin by complimenting the more than 4000 petitioners and associations in the sector, in particular the Association of Goldsmiths and Watches in Portugal. Mrs. Members, it is true that Law No 98/2015 was complex, exhaustive, perhaps difficult to understand, but for those who remember, at this time this law responded to a set of requests that came to Parliament, since we all remember the unusual number of houses of sale and purchase, and of course Parliament tried to correspond, covering as much as possible, to a social alarm. The government now, well! , as it was expected of a responsible government, it says: "Well, through Simplex, let's look..." — as Mr Fernando Jesus said — "... simplifying and making life easier for businesses and people. The question is whether or not it will happen. Well, the petitioners say no. The law continues to empower large operators and to de-protect the small ones who — if any — are only the great majority in this sector. We could say that the Simple also came, in the background, to bring simplicity to the process. But no, don't bring that. The petitioners themselves say that it remains imperceptible, very difficult, with certain requirements, including the revalidation of competences, equipment necessary for the exercise of the profession, evaluations, training of the jury, etc. etc. When I read the documents, it becomes even clearer that the Simple seems to come only and only to be another form of tax and tax collection. And why? The petitioners also say why and give even examples: « For example, it is concluded that the rates for business licences almost triple in the case of the license of ‘weirth retailer with establishments or without establishments’, also taking into account the value of the previous rate multiplied by five. in the case of warehousekeepers quadrupled’. Therefore, it seems that the revision proposed by the Government, which sought to facilitate, expedite and bring a healthy culture of competition, is summed up in a charge of more fees, without that being explained.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u132	The Left Block brings here something with which we too agree and which fails in this review of the law. Why? Because the new revision of the law removes the author's watchmaking. There was an article that protected the author's watchmaking and we understand that this is an important matter. Why? Because there is a market for anyone who wants to buy unique watchmaking parts with precious metals or mixed metals. There are a myriad of solutions, there is a market, there is even an export capacity in this sector whether traditional or modern, there is even a capacity in several schools to train teachers in this area. The previous law had this prediction, but this law practically ends with it. So the Left Block only responds to that market. We understand that we can go further. For example, by actually bringing agility to the market and making it easier. How? Perhaps to think of a solution that is not just the House of Coin the only entity to be able to make contrast markings. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u133	That's all I've been missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u134	It is possible, it was desirable and we are available to study a way of facilitating, dematerializing this process by giving the market greater competition, greater ability to reach other products and even, because not, as the Bloc's Member said, and well, that foreign artists can pass through the country, increasing and enhancing that market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u135	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u136	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we are available for this discussion, without going into unnecessary political issues, for a very simple reason: to protect the market, protect artists, protect the traditional market and create conditions so that Portugal can also be a pioneer and create jobs and generate wealth for the national economy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u137	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, a greeting to the people and entities who addressed the Assembly of the Republic in defense of the goldsmithry sector and putting the concrete question of the revision of the law and regulations that frame this activity. The CFP greatly appreciates the contribution made by the various actors in the sector to this debate and to point out the best solutions and we highlight here what has already been achieved, underlining the adoption in July, I repeat, Mr Joel Sá, the adoption in July, in the Assembly of the Republic, of the proposal of the CFP, which resulted in Resolution No 194 / 2017, by the support and valorization of ourseries and the strengthening of our contrasts. The PSD forgot, didn't it? He didn't notice!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u139	He has no memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u140	I didn't forget, no! And you voted against our draft resolution, which was equal to yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u141	We can say that, essentially, this approval has given support and follow-up to the matters put down in the petition. We must reaffirm that legislation must also be adjusted and stabilized in this area and we agree that it has not been easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u142	Is Mr. Deputy the Block Spokesman? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u143	We have a long walk of discussions, hearings, working groups, approvals in Parliament, in the Council of Ministers, in the European Commission, successive amendments to the laws, and what we see is that there is still a lot to do in order to move on to good practice, perhaps even the essential thing in this matter. It is not just about correcting aspects, after the last revision of the law. — and all indicates that this discussion will continue with questions that still exist and that can be identified, for example in the harmonization of administrative procedures, in the consideration of the weight of precious metal for the marking exemption, or with issues that now appear and that we will have to deal appropriately with, such as prices or parts of authors, more than that. From that point on, the rules to be reviewed and adapted and the question of administrative deadlines and costs, in order to take further the progress that has already been made in simplifying the procedures. The gentlemen. Members spoke in the law, but did not speak in the door that the regulation and that it has fundamental issues for the sector and, as Mr Joel Sá should know, the door does not decide in the Assembly of the Republic. in this process, it is essential to have the necessary care not to provide situations of injustice or unfair competition, but also, considering this, considering the specificity of the different areas of activity, including that of jewellery artists, the pieces of author, unique or limited edition, and to seek, in this sense, to ensure the most fair, appropriate and balanced regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u145	It's just fooling people!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u146	Even because it is our conviction that we are not facing contradictory interests, on the contrary. Trade, industry, art, research and innovation, each of them will be as strong as possible, defended and promoted as a whole. And the sector as a whole is more defended in its quality and credibility if we have in contrast a strengthened public service in its means and competences, with renewed continuity of its knowledge and secular heritage, of the most respected in the world. Therefore, the PCP stresses the central issue of improving conditions and means for contrasts and the National House of Currency ( INCM ) press, strengthening its staff, effective bet on innovative projects that have been developing. That is why we also welcome the struggle of INCM workers and reject these suggestions that open the way to the devaluation of contrasts. We want here to reiterate the openness and commitment of the PCP in the work to be carried out in defense of this whole sector of ours,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u147	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u148	...so prestigious internationally and so important for the economy of our country. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u149	Mrs. Members, before we enter the voting period, Mr Duarte Pacheco has information to give to the plenary. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u150	Mr. President and Mr. Members, with regard to the vote that took place last week, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS calls for the correction of its voting sense, which is against and not in favour, as regards paragraph 1 of draft resolution No 1085/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure effective compliance with working hours and the reconciliation of work with family life ( CFP ). Despite the fact that the CDS voted against, it does not alter the final outcome of the vote on the draft resolution in question. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u151	We shall therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 207 presences, to which are added 8, — those of the Members. Deputies João Ramos and João Oliveira, PCP, José Moura Soeiro, BE, and Carlos Abreu Amorim, Luís Leite Ramos, Luís Montenegro, Mauricio Marques and Luís Campos Ferreira, PSD,, making 215 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting vote No 422 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia, presented by PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u152	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Monday, October 23, the journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia, 53 years old, was murdered in Malta. The journalist, who distinguished himself in the investigation of subjects related to PanamaPapers, was killed when his car exploded near his home shortly after the journalist had made another publication on this subject in the blog he used to disclose his findings. It was under such investigation that Caruana Galizia had been publishing several texts in the last year with the reference to alleged cases of corruption involving high figures of the State. The journalist would have already been subjected to several death threats following the publication of his work, which also caused the presentation of certain cases against him by defamation. The murder of this journalist represents a violent attack on freedom of the press and on an entirely unacceptable expression in a rule of law and on a Europe that defends the values of freedom and respect for human rights. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of Daphne Caruana Galicia and directs its heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] following the vote we just passed, we will keep 1 minute silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We turn to the vote on vote No 423 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Condemnation of the perpetuation of abuses to the Rohingya population in Burma, submitted by the NAP and signed by PS Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u154	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u155	Is it about the vote I just put?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u156	Yes, Mr President, and not very confident that you can solve the problem at this stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u157	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u158	Of course, each parliamentary group and every Member has its own area of initiative, but my question has to do with the fact that we are going to vote a vote equal to one that we have approved in this House three weeks or a month ago. In fact, the vote itself proposes that the Assembly of the Republic condemn again what it has condemned before. The initiative of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic has the space it has, but we need to discuss this issue once and for all at the Conference of Leaders so that we will not be faced again with situations like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u159	Mr President, this issue will have to be dealt with at the next Leader Conference, because it really doesn't make sense to repeat the same votes every week. We shall then proceed to the vote on vote No 423 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Condemnation of the perpetuation of abuses to the Rohingya population in Burma, submitted by the NAP and signed by PS Deputies. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on vote No 424 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the election of Cristiano Ronaldo as « Best World Footballer » 2017, submitted by the PSD and subscribed by the PAN and PS Deputies, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u160	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « FIFA awarded on 23 October the title ‘Best of the World’ 2017 to Cristiano Ronaldo. This is the fifth time that Portuguese footballer, natural from Madeira, receives this award of international and professional recognition. The unique way in which he overcame the adversities he faced throughout his life to achieve the status of the best of the world in his area filled with pride all and any Portuguese citizenship, particularly in the extremely competitive world of sport. Cristiano Ronaldo, in addition to a footballer of choice, has rare human qualities, well-patented in the strong connection that keeps with the land that saw him born, in extraordinary dedication to family and friends and still in great solidarity and in the recognition that reveals to all who have contributed to his success. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the international recognition of Cristiano Ronaldo dos Santos Aveiro, certain that this elevates not only the name of Portugal as it also serves as inspiration for the international ambition of our citizens in all professional quadrants. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, each parliamentary group will have 2 minutes to speak on vote No 425 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Disclaimed by the stay of the President of the Eurogroup in office, presented by the CDS-PP. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In March, the President of the Eurogroup said, in a completely unacceptable way, referring to the countries of southern Europe, that all money could not be spent on drinking and on women and then on asking for help. at the time, there was a huge and very fair indignation in several countries, including Portugal, and Parliament unanimously approved votes condemning these statements and calling for his resignation. Mr Prime Minister said, in fact, that in a real Europe Mr Dijsselbloem was already fired, and well, and he also said that Europe is not done with Dijsselbloem and that it must disappear, and so too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u164	The fact is that the government has not removed any consequences from here. at the time, I could and should have demanded the exit of this Mr of the Eurogroup, but he didn't and didn't even ask for it. More: when, in October, because of having ceased to be Minister of Finance of the Netherlands, the question of whether or not the Portuguese Government was continuing its position was raised, the Portuguese Government supported its continuation. In fact, this can be read on the Eurogroup's own website, and Mr Dijsselloem gave himself up to say that they were all very pleased with the continuation of office and that this was decided unanimously.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u165	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u166	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be normal, although it is unfortunately already customary, the government says one thing and does another. The Portuguese Government must therefore respect itself and simply demand that you leave. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u167	The CDS has to switch informers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u168	Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few months ago, Portugal was unworthy. All parties, without exception, were indignant and strongly criticized the statements of the President of the Eurogroup. The President of the Republic endorsed our positions, Mr Prime Minister and the Government also strongly criticized the position and statements of the President of the Eurogroup. The House, which is meeting here, unanimously adopted a vote aimed at the failure of the President of the Eurogroup to continue his duties and also called for his resignation. Until then, the government has always been well. In fact, I disagree with what Mrs Cecilia Meireles said because the government even demanded the resignation of Mr President of the Eurogroup, making a small theatre, which, after all, was only for the television cameras.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u171	This is because, when it was time to decide, when he could vote against his election, Portugal lowered his head and voted favourably. That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u172	There was no vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we realize that, for this government and for this majority, the word given is not an honest word. It is given in Portugal and spoken in Brussels, by the Minister for Finance and by the Prime Minister. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u174	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The criticism that the CFP makes to Mr Dijsselbloem is not personal, it is political. Mr Dijsselbloem's statements concerning Portugal are unacceptable not only because of the statements themselves but also because of the political thinking they express. For years, this has been the political thought of Mr. President of the Eurogroup, as it has been the political thought of the European institutions, who have used that kind of political conceptions and positions to impose on Member States such as Portugal the path they believe to be imposed, which is the opposite of the interests of Portuguese workers and people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the position of the CFP on this vote does not disregard the criticism that has to be made to the President of the Eurogroup and the criticism that has to be made to the political thought behind his statements concerning Portugal, but does not hide the hypocrisy of the PSD and the CDS,... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ... that today came to criticise the political thought that they used as a pretext to impose on the Portuguese the theft of rights and incomes, the attack on their living conditions, the crushing of the rights of the Portuguese. [[PCP and PS applause.]] Mr President, we consider the continuation of the role of the President of the Eurogroup to be completely inadequate, we continue to criticize that political thought and we will express this with our vote, which obviously cannot be in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u176	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u177	... because we do not follow the position of the PSD and CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u178	Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all react to Mr Dijsselbloem's statements at the beginning of this year, which have been considered not only by this Parliament but also at European level, which is completely unacceptable and condemned. But it must be understood that for four years you in the previous government have lived very well with the President of the Eurogroup. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all remember the press conference with Schäuble and Maria Luís Albuquerque, about the Eurogroup decision on Greece. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u180	We all have that in memory. The President of the Eurogroup ceased to serve yesterday. The President of the Eurogroup left his duties as Minister of Finance in the Netherlands yesterday. Until being replaced there is only one meeting. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, what you call extension of the President's mandate has to do with a single meeting. The second meeting is to elect your replacement. Knowing this reality, it seems to us that it is pure hypocrisy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u181	Hypocrisy is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u182	After living with Mr Dijsselbloem for four years, who did not speak about the behaviour of the southern countries, but spoke politically about the lives of the citizens of the southern countries, and who contributed to the lives of the citizens for four years, particularly in Portugal, that was what it was, now expressing discontent because there is another meeting chaired by Mr Dijsselbloem, it seems to us to be an exaggeration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u183	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We note that it was necessary for the PSD and the CDS to come to the opposition to criticize the way Dijsselbloem spoke about Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is not a question of form; it is a matter of content. And when we were pressed, as a country, when the right PSD and CDS was in power, the right PSD and CDS shut down and executed their prejudice here in the country. We remember that! We remember that! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The men and women of the hands of Dijsselbloem in Portugal were the deputies and deputies of the PSD and the CDS, they were the rulers and rulers of the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u185	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u186	You remember that, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Do you remember that? [[Congratulations from BE.]] That is why, when the Left Block votes in favour of this vote,... [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u187	...we're repudiating...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u188	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the honourable Member intervene, because no one else understands anything. You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u189	It is the weight in the memory of the past, Mr. President! It's a weight on your conscience! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, when the Left Block votes in favour of this vote, will do so for the repudiation of what Dijsselbloem politically means and for knowing that every day he was in front of the Eurogroup, even when he was part of his mandate, much with the support of the PSD and the CDS, it hurt the country, it hurt the people of our country. Therefore, when the CDS says it expresses its repudiation for the support of the President of the Eurogroup, we consider that it is also a repudiation to the conscience of the CDS and its past, when it was in government with the PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u190	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you still have time to intervene, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have only 17 seconds. Please. [[Pause.]] Once the PSD has yielded 42 seconds, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has become 59 seconds. Please, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u191	Mr President, I have heard the word "hypocrisy" here said several times by several benches. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, who, regardless of your party, supports a government that currently says that it is not important for you to continue, it is only one more meeting, it is only two more months,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u192	...I say from here: not one more meeting! Not another day! It's unacceptable! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u193	If you were consistent with what they said, then they should have demanded the exit of the President of the Eurogroup. [[CDS-PP applause.]] To the Members of the House and to the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members who together support the current government, which allows him to continue in the Eurogroup, what I say to you is this: this man will quietly leave at the end of his term with the dignity which he has not recognised us and will only come out of the will of the Dutch, who have not voted in it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u194	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u195	...because if it depended on the Portuguese government's will, it would remain there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u196	If he depended on the CDS government, he wouldn't have left!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u197	It's unacceptable, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u198	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u199	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u200	Mr President, it is only to note the following: the debate was concluded, and as we did not want to prevent the use of the word, that it should be clarified at the future Conference of Leaders which, at this item on the agenda, the allocation of time for discussion of votes had always been understood as a moment of use for once by the parliamentary groups. [[No, no!]] [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u201	No, no, sir. What's in...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u202	from there I have not made use of the word and have not hindered the use of the word by any Member...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u203	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. It's not worth it...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u204	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u205	The Rules of Procedure are very clear by assigning 2 minutes per parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u206	Mr President, with due respect, can I conclude my appeal to the Bureau? It is a procedural, regulatory issue, I think it is important and the Parliamentary Group... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u207	Mr President, I ask you to conclude the appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u208	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I reiterate that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group makes this request to the Bureau after the use of the floor by the honourable Member. We have not hindered the use of the word by anyone. I think that in this House of the Republic you can use the floor to make a rule of procedure...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. We got it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u210	Mr President, I am sorry, but with all due respect let me conclude my appeal to the Bureau. It's a question that the Socialist Party would like to keep registered... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u211	Mr President, requests to the Bureau also have a limited amount of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u212	But Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves is unable to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u213	Precisely, Mr. President. I would like to conclude my call to the Bureau with great tranquillity, noting that the PS Parliamentary Group would like to clarify this for the future at the Leaders' Conference. I think it is an absolutely anodized question to the Bureau that could have been formulated in another way without the need for all this constancy. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u214	Mr President, you are often present at the Conference of Leaders, so you have every freedom to raise this and other questions. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u215	however, what is in the Rules of Procedure, for the Bureau, is extremely clear: it is 2 minutes per parliamentary group. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on vote No 425 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Repudiation of the extension of the term of office of the President of the Eurogroup, of the CDS-PP. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the Greens and the PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] We shall now proceed to the vote of two applications, one from the PSD and the other from BE, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for 60 days of its draft lein. 569 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the responsibility of the employer for the compulsory training of workers in public functions and for the renewal of the qualifications essential for the performance of their functions by amending the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( PSD ) and 651 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Responsives the public employer for the costs arising from the vocational training and certification of the worker ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] According to the vote, these bills are down to 10. the Commission. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 876 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by valuing the teaching of the history of Portuguese emigration ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 877 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the creation of a national emigration museum ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the NAP and the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u216	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u217	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u218	Mr President, to announce that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1083 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a national documentation centre on Portuguese emigration ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1096 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve the analysis and assessment of the situation of Portuguese migrants ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] The general vote on Bill No 241 / XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — by extending the appropriations covered by the Salary Guarantee Fund ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall also vote, in general, on Bill No. 646 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend rules for the operation and access to the Salary Guarantee Fund and strengthen workers'rights ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u221	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u222	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on the drafts of lein.o 241 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 646 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) we just voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u223	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1065 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the area of pediatric oncology by promoting greater support and protection for minors with oncology disease and their caregivers ( CDS-PP ). The PS and the CFP were required to vote on this draft resolution by points. So we will begin by voting together, the request of the PS, points 9, 18, 27, 28, 29 and 30. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] The request by the PS, we shall proceed to the vote on point 15. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on points 26 and 31 of the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE were adopted.]] We shall now vote on point 32 of the CFP's request. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on the remaining points — 1 to 8, 10 to 14, 16 and 17, 19 to 25 and 33 — of draft resolution No 1065 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on an application by the NAP to the Committee on Labour and Social Security without a 45-day vote of Bill No 649 / XIII ( 3 ) for 45 days. ( a ) — Strengthen the social and labour protection of parents in a child's care framework with oncological disease ( NAP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1092 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to strengthen support for children and young people with cancer ( PSD ). As requested, we begin by voting on points ( a ), ( b ), ( c ), ( d ), ( g ) and ( i ) of point 1, and points ( c ) and ( h ) of point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] Let us vote on point 1 ( j ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on points 2 ( d ) and ( g ), ( h ) and ( i ) of point 3. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were adopted with the abstention of the PS.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on the remaining points of points 1, 2 and 3 and point 4. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u224	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u225	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u226	Mr President, we did not want to interrupt for good conduct of the work, but we would like to point out that in this draft resolution, in point 1 (f) and point 2 (b) the vote on the CDS-PP is abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u227	Mr President, we voted point 1 (f) and point 2 (b) in a set. I should have asked for a breakdown.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u228	Mr President, I later signalled to the Bureau. We didn't separate the dots...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u229	Mr President, do you ask for a change in the meaning of the CDS-PP on these points?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u230	Yes, Mr President, the point of vote of the CDS-PP on these points goes away.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u231	Mrs. Members, we will have to repeat the vote on point 1 ( f) and point 2 ( b ). We begin with point 1 ( f ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on point 2 ( b ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1094 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening measures in the area of pediatric oncology and support for children and adolescents with cancer and their families ( PCP ). The PS also calls for a partition in three votes on this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u232	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u233	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u234	Mr President, we also request that point 3 ( c ) be identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u235	Mr President, these requests must be made before the vote. This complicates the follow-up of the work in an absurd way. Let us begin with the vote on point 3 ( c ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall jointly vote on points (a) and (b) of point 3 and (a) and (b) of point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We shall now proceed to the vote under point 1 ( f) and ( g ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points of points 1 and 2. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We then proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1095 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement a number of measures aimed at protecting children with cancer and their families/caregivers (NAPs). The PS also requested the partitioning of this initiative in several votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u236	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u237	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u238	Mr President, these amendments came a long way ahead of time and we did not have time to ask ourselves to individualise points. in this case, we also ask for exceptions to point 13.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by voting on points 2 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 13. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and against the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote on points 16, 17 and 18. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1097 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to support children and young people with cancer as well as their caregivers (BE). The PS requested the partition in three voting blocks. We begin with the vote on point 1 ( iv ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on points ( i ) and ( iii ) of point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously,]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u240	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u241	To what effect, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u242	Mr President, it is to inform you that, with regard to the last votes, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u243	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 561 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of the increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( sixth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June— General Public Works Act ) ( CFP ). [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD and PS, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the PAN and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the members of the PS André Pinotes Batista, Antonio Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Rocha, João Soares, Joaquim Barreto, Joaquim Raposo, José Rui Cruz, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Luís Graça, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Miguel Coelho, Norberto Patinho, Pedro do Carmo, Ricardo León, Santinho Pacheco and Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 589 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sets the scheme for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penosity and insanity ( sixth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June—General Public Works Act ) ( PCP ). [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD and PS, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the PAN and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the members of the PS André Pinotes Batista, Antonio Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Rocha, João Soares, Joaquim Barreto, Joaquim Raposo, José Rui Cruz, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Luís Graça, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Marisabel Moutela, Miguel Coelho, Norberto Patinho, Pedro do Carmo, Ricardo León, Santinho Pacheco and Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u244	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u245	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u246	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present, on my behalf and on behalf of other PS Members who abstained from voting on the drafts of lein. 561 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 589 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u247	Mr. Deputy, it's registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u248	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u249	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u250	Mr President, it is also to announce that the CDS Parliamentary Group will make a written statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u251	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 648 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September regulating Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 on the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities, amending the scheme for the allocation of professional ballot papers ( NAP ). [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, Greens and PAN and PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP abstentions.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 650 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recognizes and defines the figure of specialist for integration into the teaching body and teaching in the cycles of studies leading the degree of undergraduate in non-conventional therapies ( makes the second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September) ( BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE and the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u252	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u253	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u254	Mr President, it is only to inform that, with regard to the vote we have just held, the CDS bench will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u255	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 652 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extends the transitional period for the assignment of a certificate for the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities to which it has completed its training after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September) ( BE ). [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, Greens and PAN and PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 10. the Commission. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1093 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ). — Recommends that the Government work towards the Central Administration of Health Systems, IP ( ACSS ) open a new period for applications for the issue of professional ballots intended only for non-conventional therapy students who completed their courses after 2 October 2013 ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1099 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the review of the legal regime for goldsmiths and contrasts ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 809 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a three-year moratorium regime for the hunting of common rolla and bran ( PAN). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the members of the PS Joaquim Barreto, Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the PSP Deputies Pedro Delgado Alves, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Santinho Pacheco and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 810 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a uniform two-day hunting arrangements for ordered and unordered land (NAP). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, with votes against BE, Os Verdes, PAN and PS MP Rosa Maria Albernaz and the abstention of PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u256	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u257	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u258	Mr President, it is only to clarify that the Greens voted in favour of draft resolution No 1093 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ). — Recommends that the Government work towards the Central Administration of Health Systems, IP ( ACSS ) open a new period for applications for the issue of professional ballots intended only for non-conventional therapy students who completed their courses after 2 October 2013 ( CDS-PP ). It is that we doubted what was announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u259	What happened to this project, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u260	It was approved, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u261	Then you will be corrected, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a working day, this requires a very great deal of attention, so I would ask you to try to avoid amendments after the votes, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u262	This is not an amendment, Mr President. That is how we voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u263	All right, Mr, that's how you voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u264	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u265	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u266	Mr President, it is to inform that, on these last two votes, the CFP will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u267	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 231 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Emergency intervention in EN4, in Atalaia-Pegões ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 943 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by building the Guadiana International Bridge between Alcoutim and Sanlúcar ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 651 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reject the plan for the establishment of the Local Health Unit between Douro and Vouga, seeking alternatives to ensure closer proximity and investment in health services ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u268	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u269	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u270	Mr President, even yesterday, the PSD Parliamentary Group requested the Bureau to vote separately from point 1 and the joint vote on points 2 and 3 of this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u271	So let's vote like this. First of all, we are voting on point 1 of the motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Let us now vote points 2 and 3 of draft resolution No 651 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1089 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the appreciation of the Hospital Dr. Francisco Zagalo ( Ovar ) ( PCP ) for which the PSD Parliamentary Group also requested the separate vote of points 1 and 2 and then of the remaining points. We therefore vote first of all on points 1 and 2. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1058 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Emergency intervention in the Torto River and the Panoes River ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on Bill No 67 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates tax benefits for forest management entities by amending the Statute for Tax Benefits and the Rules of Procedure for Registration and Notary. The Government has withdrawn its initiative in favour of this text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] We shall now vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session of the Commission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on Parliament's opinion No 39 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 66 / 2017 of 12 June establishing the Legal Regime for the Recognition of Forest Management Entities ( BE ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u272	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u273	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u274	Mr President, it is only to announce that, for these last two votes, the CFP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u275	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, it is also important to vote on some opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, so I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to give us an account of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request by Judge 2 of the Braga Criminal Investigation Court of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Case No. 296 / 13.18TAVD, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Rui Silva ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u277	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of Judge 2 of the Gondomar Local Criminal Court of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Case No. 3580 / 17.8T9GDM, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Maria Germana Rocha ( PSD ) to intervene in the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u279	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You want to continue, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request by Judge 3 of the Central Criminal Court of Santarém of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Santarém, Case No 515 / 15.6JALRA, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Luís Graça ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u281	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote on that opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will also report to the House on two initiatives which have entered the Bureau. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No 653 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for the operation of local housing establishments ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August and sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 39 / 2008 of 7 March ) ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission and draft resolution No 1102 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends sustainable reforestation and public management of the Leiria pine ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-27.u283	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place on 2 November, Thursday, at 3 p.m., and the agenda will generally include the appraisal of the proposals for lein. 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. I wish everyone a good afternoon and a good weekend, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 31 minutes.]]
