ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, I request Mr Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the proposed legislation No 101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down the rules on compensation actions for infringement of competition law by transposing Directive 2014 / 104 / EU, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 102 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to decriminalise and provide for the unauthorized public execution of commercially edited phonograms and videograms which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 1100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Self-protection programme in the event of forest fire ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Awareness and information campaigns, strategic and proximity, designed to prevent the ignition of forest fires resulting from negligent human actions ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us now begin the agenda, together with the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 569 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the responsibility of the employer for the compulsory training of workers in public functions and for the renewal of the qualifications essential for the performance of their functions by amending the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( PSD ) and 651 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Responsives the public employer for the costs arising from the vocational training and certification of the worker ( BE ). To initiate the debate and present the PSD bill, Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has always been concerned about employees of the Public Administration. He was very concerned and worried, and always seriously, without demagogy or false promises. Here is a proof: this bill, presented by the PSD in June, which joined, last week, another with the same objective, has in its genesis imperative of justice for the workers of the Public Administration. Technological developments and new social demands have led to higher levels of demand that, in some cases, result in the mandatory frequency of training actions, revalidation of professional qualifications and similar situations, sometimes only for workers to continue to perform their professions. This is the case with the drivers of collective transport and heavy-duty vehicles. If it is the collective interest to impose the frequency of courses and professional actions so that workers can continue to work legally, it is not fair to oblige them to pay the costs, especially when many continue to have unequivocally low pay levels. For us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, no worker may be required to pay for the vocational training that the law requires him only to be able to continue to work. By establishing the General Law on Public Works the obligation of the public employer to provide vocational training to its employees, there is no obligation that it should be directed to the effective needs of the worker, a situation that is intended to be met by this initiative, since the safeguarding of labour rights cannot be subject to criteria of opportunity or financial availability of the public employer. It cannot be the seizures to respond negatively to drivers and other workers when they legitimately claim the revalidation of their professional qualifications or compulsory training. It is noted that the approval of this bill does not have to generate an increase in expenditure, since it is already mandatory to grant certified training paid, it is sufficient that it is directed to meet the actual needs of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u6	After all, public leaders must be the first to be interested in giving their employees, to state workers qualification and motivation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the PSD is asking Parliament is sensitivity and justice: sensitivity to the specific problems of workers; justice, because no one can be forced to pay for the training that the law imposes on it, which, in some cases, it is only in order to be able to continue to work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u7	To present the Left Block initiative, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Vocational training is a right of any worker to his or her personal recognition and as a worker. This right also corresponds to a duty, that of any employer to provide the possibility of this renewal of knowledge, of continuous or specific vocational training when necessary. in the case of work in public functions, this vocational training has an increased responsibility, because it allows a superior public service. It enables the quality of public service to be strengthened. This is what this project aims to do: to strengthen the quality of the public service provided through the obligation of the public employer to provide the professional training of its workers. The new vocational training scheme approved by the Government in 2016 recognizes the role of vocational training as a strategic tool for the modernization and transformation of public administrations. This has also been a very repeated objective by the Minister of Finance, which protects the Public Administration : modernising the Public Administration. We are concerned about this, and in particular, as has already been raised in the case of the draft law submitted by the PSD, the situation of heavy passenger or freight drivers, who, because of increased responsibility for road safety — their own safety, but also the safety of passengers — have obligations of initial qualification and continuing training. Therefore, in addition to the driving licence, they also have the driver qualification letter, which has to be renewed from five to five years, which has a high cost and many of these workers receive very low values as operational assistants, within their career in Public Administration. This problem that exists in the public sector — we recognize and the unions have warned — also exists in the private sector, where workers also have low wages and also have to cover the costs of their training and payment of their enabling title and the renewals of the certificate. Therefore, the Left Block will also present a solution that is responsible to private employers for obtaining these titles and certificates and we hope that the PSD will also follow this initiative at that time, because it is good not to forget that the law we are proposing today to amend Law No. 35 / 2014 was proposed and approved during the right government, the PSD and the CDS. at that time, there were those who tried to hold the public administration, the government and the state accountable for the vocational training of their workers, but there were those who understood that this should not be the case. Those who tried to hold the State responsible for the professional training of the Public Administration were the Left Block and the left parties; those who prevented the Public Administration and the public employers from having more responsibilities in this area were the right government. Who increased wages to these operational assistants, increasing the minimum wage, was the Left Block, through its agreement with the Socialist Party ; who maintained the operational assistants with poor wages was the PSD and the CDS, the right government. Therefore, the defense of the Public Administration is certainly very welcome, but we can only conclude that being in opposition does very well for the PSD and I am sure that public officials will also be able to recognize this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u9	For an intervention, Mr José Rui Cruz, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the bills, the PSD and the Left Block, paragraphs 569 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 651 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), respectively, establishing the responsibility of the employer for the compulsory training of workers in public functions and for the renewal of the qualifications essential for the performance of their functions, by amending the fourth General Law on Public Works. with regard to the duty to ensure vocational training for workers in public functions, the projects are redundant. In fact, the General Law on Public Works imposes this duty on public employers and, reflexally, guarantees this right. In turn, Decree-Law No 86 -A of December 29, 2016, defines the objectives and principles guiding vocational training in the Public Administration, reinforces the duty of the public employer to provide vocational training to those who exercise public functions, guarantees this same right to workers and still operationalizes such duties and rights through the preparation of the diagnosis of needs and training plans with participation of workers. The evaluation of the implementation of the training, thus identified, and the ministry is carried out through the management reports of the training, also by the representatives of the workers. As regards the responsibility of the public employer for renewing the enabling titles indispensable to the performance of its functions, the project is largely inefficient and very inaccurate, and may have implications far beyond the scope of the project's explanatory statement, whose accounting is not easy. It is inefficient because, attentive to the universe to cover, the project fails the target. In fact, the vast majority or even all heavy-duty passenger vehicle drivers do their activity in local administration, in general at the service of municipal companies. These workers are not covered by the General Law on Public Works and, therefore, the proposed legislative amendment would have no effect at all. If we want to regulate this matter, and with this scope, we will have to find another way, possibly through collective agreements of work. In fact, it is likely that this matter will already be regulated at that headquarters. This PSD bill emerges as a result of a professional situation identified by drivers of the municipal urban transport services of the Coimbra City Council, presented to parliamentary groups, and, in fact, according to them, the issue they need to solve is to equate their career with that of their colleagues who serve in Carris or other public companies with the same functional content. According to information collected, the situation in question is confined to municipal services of the municipal chambers of Coimbra, Barreiro and Portalegre, and the number of workers concerned will be around 400. These workers do not want to remain operational assistants, but rather have the same category as the other drivers of public passenger transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u12	So, what matters is to look at the case presented here, solve the professional career situation and not adopt the solution here proposed by the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are discussing proposals which are certainly in need of some clarification today. To hear the PSD say that he has always cared about the civil servants of the Public Administration withdraws all credibility from this discussion. But, by going beyond this pattern, and focusing on the bills that we are discussing today, it would be important, from the outset, to realize why the issue that is invoked, the absence and the obligation—in this case of the professional category that is referred to in the PSD bill, that of driver—to have to bear the costs of their professional training appears in the terms in which it appears. From that point on, we need to realize that this framework has a history. The story is contained in Law No. 12 -A / 2008 of 27 February, which establishes the arrangements for binding, careers and remuneration in the Public Administration, which destroyed specific careers and in which drivers become comparable to operational assistants. And on this issue, against which the PCP is, of course, because it is a specific career and cannot be equated to the operational assistant, the PSD — and also the Left Block — says zero in your project. But it is important, of course, to clarify this matter. It is that we cannot be discussing this issue without discussing the need for repeal of Law No 12 -A / 2008 and the creation of a career scheme in the Public Administration that takes into account specific functions and that requires specific vocational training to do so. And, Mr President, on this matter, we follow the need to obviously be the employer, in this case the Public Administration, to bear that cost. The different thing is to discuss that in the terms in which it is presented. And so on the side of the CFP, we understand that there are matters that need to be clarified. From then on, under what conditions are we to conclude that the proposal that the PSD brings here solves only this problem, leaving out many other professions, from then on to within the framework of the National Health Service, professions that, in fact, already require license and enabling title? Therefore, the first question I would like to put to the PSD, which will still have time to answer, is whether you have a prediction, in the law of what you propose here, that this will only apply to drivers, leaving out other professions, from then on regulated through professional orders, which have to bear its cost, the cost of your professional license. So there are some doubts that need to be clarified. I would also like to say that, throughout this afternoon, we will discuss other matters concerning public administration and we will also have the opportunity to discuss a proposal from the CFP for the creation of a supplement of insanity, risk or penosity. And, Mr President, on that issue here today, until we could conclude that the PSD brings this matter to the House of the Republic today because it has not been able to solve it before. Now, the PSD and the CDS revised the General Law on Public Works in 2013 and had all the conditions to guarantee in articles 71. o and 72. the, which are now proposed to change this matter, but did not do so— in fact, they have lived well with the situation of the public administration, drivers equipped with operational assistants and have to bear their enabling title.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u15	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u16	I should like to conclude by saying this: we will study this subject with the rigour that requires us, because we do not embark on proposals that, in order to respond to a problem, will create deep inequalities at the level of public administration workers. And, by legislation on a specific situation, it must be safeguarded that applies to all employees of the Public Administration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u17	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This schedule, from the PSD initiative and also with a contribution from the Left Block, concerns the responsibility of the employer for the compulsory training of employees in public functions and for the renewal of the enabling titles indispensable to the performance of these functions. We all know some of these concrete situations, which have been brought to us by many workers. We know that if, in most cases, the training and certifications aim only to enrich the curriculum or training of employees, in many other cases—and in particular those targeted by this amendment—the non-frequency of their trainings could lead to the loss of qualification to continue to exercise their profession. We do not ignore that many of these workers who are forced to attend this training or to have this certification to continue to exercise their profession are obliged to pay it, which represents a great constraint on the personal budget. We therefore want to begin by congratulating the Social Democratic Party on this initiative. We perceive the embarrassment of the Socialist Party and also of the Portuguese Communist Party. They usually get pregnant when the initiative is not theirs, because they think they have the monopoly to deal with what concerns workers. at that time, they get pregnant. But it's a good sign. And I believe that there is consensus in this House is the importance of training in public functionalism. This is how we want a modern and competent Public Administration in the 21st century, which thus achieves the highest quality service for all Portuguese citizens. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS, not ignoring this problem, is available to be part of the solution. We hope that these initiatives can go down to the Commission, so that we can also make our contribution to enrich them and make them into a legislative amendment that serves everyone: to public officials, who benefit directly from them, but also — and to keep them always present — citizens who benefit from public services who, even if indirectly, are also beneficiaries of any more value than the legislative amendment provides. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u19	To close this debate, Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u20	Mr President, to begin with I would like to say this: of course, for us, PSD, this proposal is a basis of work. And we are obviously available to, if it comes down to the Commission with the vote on this House, find balanced solutions to the problems identified. Then I wanted to tell the Portuguese Communist Party the following: the law, when it is done, is general and abstract and applies to all citizens. Therefore, we cannot confuse what is the exposition of motives with the content of the law. in the explanatory statement concrete examples are indicated, but the law is to be applied to all employees of the Public Administration who are required to make training so that they can continue to carry out their activities. And we understand that if someone is required to train to continue working, it must be the employer to bear these costs in all situations. And I repeat, we are available to find consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u21	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u22	I conclude now, Mr President. I just want to say the following: if the law is not necessary, if the Public Administration is already fulfilling what we ask for, how can it generate charges? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u23	The joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 569 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ) and 651 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( BE ), we will turn to the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 876 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by valuing the teaching of the history of Portuguese emigration ( PS ), 877 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the creation of a national emigration museum ( PS ), 1083 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a national documentation centre on Portuguese emigration ( PSD ) and 1096 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve the analysis and assessment of the situation of Portuguese migrants ( CDS-PP ). For an intervention, Mr Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The history of Portugal can also be well told through the history of its emigration. The many generations of Portuguese who one day emigrated deserve Portugal honor by telling them their history, without taboos or complexes. Let them count their adventures, fears and anxieties, successes and failures, their discoveries and actions, which show how the decision to emigrate transformed the country and the countries that welcomed them into the four corners of the world. Portuguese emigration must cease to be the great absence of history, as Victor Pereira says, historian at the University of Pau. And it needs to be valued and dignified, freed from prejudice and sovereignty, because it is an integral part of our collective history and our identity. The creation of a national museum of emigration, or of the Portuguese presence in the world, as you would like to call it, and the teaching of the history of emigration in schools have a complementary educational function essential so that society and institutions can know and understand a phenomenon that everyone cares about and that everyone should mobilize, in the country and in the communities. A national museum of emigration should be a place of culture and tourism, an open space for schools, modern and interactive and networked to other congeneral institutions in Portugal and around the world. It should be a place of debate, reflection and investigation, therefore, to lack a documentation centre, as in fact already existed in the time of Secretary of State José Lello. It will be a place where thousands of Lusodescendants can dive into their origins and discover how the lives of their parents and grandparents have been portrayed, as they have built their paths, as they have overcome so many difficulties in foreign places and cultures. It will therefore be a place of reconciliation with our collective memory. There is a gigantic amount of information scattered in monographs, objects, files, built heritage and lineages of generations of Portuguese of the continent, Azores and Madeira, waiting for anyone to give them a destination, which would be regrettable if he lost. Having the framework of the State, it will be stable and sustainable, without the limitations that municipal museums dedicated to emigration have in technical resources, financial capacity and teams competent to give life and soul to the museum, which obviously makes sense to be located in a region of strong emigration, but which is central and easy to access. in schools, the vision of emigration is still considerably limited, especially in the subjects of Geography or History, integrated in the general context of migration. We are talking about remittances, but without thinking about the importance of this money for the real economy. Statistics are presented on the flows of migrants, but without the human dimension associated with them. Now, in the context of the curriculum flexibility project, there is an opportunity for the history of emigration to be taught with a new approach, allowing to know how it evolved in its various facets—from its cultural impact to its economic value, from its human dimension to its political and diplomatic importance—and both in its positive and negative aspects. It is of the greatest importance that the school does the pedagogy that has not yet been done, giving knowledge, valuing and dignity to those who, in the past, have always been stigmatized, particularly in the 20th century, during the times of dictatorship. Just as studies on Portuguese emigration should be encouraged in universities to better understand all the dimensions of their existence. To recognize, eliminate prejudices and dignify Portuguese emigration, which, including its recognition in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, is what is intended with the legislative initiatives presented by the PS, while honouring the efforts of many who have engaged in this struggle, which is an example of Prof. Maria Beatriz Rocha Trindade. There are no Portuguese first and second: there are only Portuguese, they live in the country or abroad. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u25	Mr Pascoa Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is a country built on the basis of a constant migration process, for more than five centuries. According to data from the United Nations, it is estimated that some 2 million citizens who were born here are living outside the national territory, to which more than 2 million are added with Portuguese nationality. On the other hand, it is also known that the profound migration process for South America and North America, Africa and Asia, started in the 16th century, but with particular relevance in the late 19th century and early 20th century, makes in these continents a vast set of communities of Luso-descendants, which should involve a large number of tens of millions of citizens with Portuguese origin. This universe must also join a large number of Portuguese people who left Portugal from the second half of the 20th century, with a view to a wide range of European countries, especially France, with a significant integration into local societies. It must also be taken into account that this diaspora has been crucial for the development of our country and for its external affirmation, with a political, social, economic and cultural contribution of enormous significance to us all. However, despite the importance and size of this migration phenomenon, few institutions specialize in their study, not having a lot of research work on this subject. The justification for this gap lies in the fact that the sources are scarce to carry out such an analysis. Some higher education institutions and some municipalities have created some institutions, such as local study centres and museums, which have gathered various materials and documents that allow us to analyze our migration flows in a timely manner, and can be cited as examples of the Immigration Observatory, the Population Studies Centre, Economics and Society and the Research and Sociology Center of the ISCTE - University Institute of Lisbon. However, it remains extremely difficult to access the vast documentation existing in official bodies, of which the Directorate-General for Consular Affairs and the Portuguese Communities stands out, inheriting all the documentation of the former Institute of Immigration and other entities, from which it is possible to analyse with greater depth the evolution of this phenomenon. We therefore believe that it will be important today to set up an official documentation centre on Portuguese emigration, which is stimulated by the political protection of Portuguese communities in the Government, which articulates its action with other entities of the central and local administration as well as with private institutions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This matter is of the greatest importance, because it will make it easier for the whole society and the various political forces to better understand the economic, cultural and social potential of our diaspora, which, even today, over several centuries, is very little known in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u28	We understand that it has already been time to look at the Portuguese communities scattered around the world as something exotic, because this does not do justice to their huge contribution to the development of our country. We bring this theme to debate because we understand that this study centre will be an extraordinary tool to use as a basis for the formulation and implementation of measures that improve the life of our diaspora and so that we can measure its contribution to the economy of Portugal, which goes far beyond the simple remittances of emigration. Given the importance of the topic, we invite the other parliamentary groups to follow us with the right vote, as we will do with the other projects presented. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u29	To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a draft resolution that recommends to the Government an improvement of the instruments for assessing the situation of Portuguese immigrants, of all those outside the country who are looking for a more promising future, affirm their talent and represent a benchmark of competence of Portugal. Through an existing instrument, the Emigration Report, it is about finding ways to correct and fill gaps that continue to exist in the assessment of the situation in which our emigrants are, whether they are in Venezuela, the United Kingdom or anywhere else in the world. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that the report gives us an integrated view of the dynamic, as global as detailed, of our emigration, the CDS believes that we should go further, further in identifying the problems of our communities, further in detail in the complaints of our emigrants, in particular their relationship with consular structures, and further in improvements in the monitoring of diaspora. To go further, Mr President, the report on immigration can and should be improved, can and should play a decisive role in defining public policies and in more effective monitoring of the situation of Portuguese abroad. This is the objective of the CDS project, with premises that will surely not cease to be accompanied by all parliamentary groups. As for the other projects under discussion, I must begin by telling Mr Paulo Pisco and the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group that what separates us, in the case of the project to create a national museum of emigration, is not the idea, it is the opportunity and the circumstance of the moment we live. The idea is interesting, but its implementation requires caution, as I said, for reasons of opportunity and circumstance, because the House of Matosinhos announced in 2015 the creation of a museum called "Cais — Museum of Diaspora and Portuguese Language", which we consider to meet what they now want. on the CDS, Mr. President and Mr. Members, we have no prejudice against the fact that we are an authority to take on such a project,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u33	... even more when it has the collaboration of such diverse personalities as, for example, the architect Souto Moura and with the committed, dynamic and active support of at least two former Ministers of Culture of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The challenge will be to combine desires into an existing project and not to try to overlap or multiply museums with the same object. The objective is not, nor can it be, multiply or replicate, it must be that we can cooperate so that this museum is assumed as a civic, pedagogical, cultural and historical project. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for the second project of the Socialist Party, by valuing the teaching of the history of Portuguese emigration, we believe that the same is appropriate and deserves our follow-up, provided that this appreciation is carried out within the framework of the ongoing curriculum reform and, as we all know, we know, in the framework of curricular anggravation also sought and defended by the socialist government. I shall finish, Mr President, by expressing our agreement with the PSD proposal to set up an immigration research centre. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the present time is more concrete options with direct consequences in the lives of Portuguese than symbolic options whose value we recognize, but we do not consider priority. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u36	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by saying that it is interesting that the right has proposed to value the link with Portuguese emigration, when they were responsible for their sudden increase in previous years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u38	Well remembered! [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u39	It is known that the former Government has been responsible for a wave of emigration as it has not been seen since the middle of the last century and has not had the courage and political initiative to create a stronger and more effective link with the people who were already emigration and with whom, because of their policies, they have been forced to emigrate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u40	All right! [[Protests by PSD Members and the CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u41	On the contrary, they failed and closed the consulates, removed conditions of support for migrants and available resources, as they reduced the scope of Portuguese education abroad, particularly by the tips collected, and drastically reduced the effectiveness of Portuguese language teachers abroad. Nevertheless, the proposals submitted by the PS, the PSD and the CDS today, particularly in the areas of education and culture, are intended to maintain a link with about 5 million people who maintain a connection, which if not effective is affective, with Portugal. To raise and disseminate the periods and social contexts that have led to exodus by the Portuguese population is something that we see as an object of study, which can be systematic and systematic, that has to be part of our context of social learning and that will allow a greater sociological framework of this group of people, as well as an appreciation of their course. The inclusion of this systematization in teaching and the creation of spaces for its dissemination, as well as greater support for the investigation of these phenomena and of the concrete living conditions of those who, being Portuguese or descendant, do not live in Portugal, are a sign, even though extremely tenuous, of political change in perspective on emigration. however, we must not fail to say that this will not bring emigrants back — those who wish to return — nor will it improve their conditions abroad, and here we still have much to do. We must address the concern and greater visibility of specific issues of support for workers and consular workers, as well as the provision of material resources, which will necessarily result in more concrete support for migrants. We should not close, or privatize, support services abroad, such as branches of the General Deposit Box abroad, and inside, at risk of closure or privatization. We must also increase the number of Portuguese teachers abroad and end the pros. Finally, and at a time when we discussed the State Budget for 2018, two questions arise regarding these projects. First: What is the budget for a more effective support for immigrants abroad? Secondly, what is the budget for culture — small — that will allow this resolution to take place? What we know today is that these proposals will not get out of the way. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u42	Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Three initiatives are under discussion today, essentially aimed at the recognition and appreciation of Portuguese emigration. I would like the CFP to say that it does not object to the fact that the history of Portuguese emigration is valued and known, but, when we look at the initiatives, we are amazed. What's our surprise? None of the initiatives refers to the root causes of emigration. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]] The root causes of emigration stem from what has been the policy of successive governments, particularly the PSD/CDS-PP government — the CFP does not forget the appeals made by the then Prime Minister so that the Portuguese would leave their comfort zone, so that young people would emigrate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u44	Exactly! They sent us away!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u45	We don't forget this! It is not the presentation of your initiatives today that lightens your responsibilities in the situation of many Portuguese who have been forced out of the country. Worse! — they were forced to leave the country and what they found, in terms of the external support network, was a fragile situation, due to the fault and responsibility of the policy that followed: reduction of the Portuguese teaching network abroad, introduction of the tip, reduction of the number of workers in the consulates, lack of equipment from the consular networks. We have also verified a lack of reference to the situations of labour exploitation in which thousands of Portuguese people have been forced to emigrate. There was no word for these Portuguese. With regard to the CDS project, we would like to stir up their memory by saying that the initiative originated from the CFP Parliamentary Group, when it presented a proposal for the preparation of the immigration report and the analysis of its situation. Therefore, it is not today that the CFP is concerned about emigration and brings the subject to debate. But, Mr. President and Mr. Members, what we would really like to see here is the situation with which Portuguese people are faced and the answer that needs to be given to the old problems, which continue and persist, with the strengthening of the external network and the modernization of consulates, with the strengthening of support for Portuguese people living in situations of exploitation and under angry conditions, with the strengthening of Portuguese teaching abroad, with the abolition of the propina. These are the concerns that the CFP has, that is why we will continue to beat ourselves. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that there is indeed much demagogy in the projects presented here, particularly in the PSD and CDS-PP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u46	Mrs. Members, the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 876 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 877 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 1083 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1096 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), we move on to the general debate of the projects of lein.o 241 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by extending the appropriations covered by the Salary Guarantee Fund ( BE ) and 646 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend rules for the operation and access to the Salary Guarantee Fund and strengthen workers'rights ( CFP ). To present the project of the Left Block, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Established in 1999, the Salary Guarantee Fund has a noble objective and an essential mission for many people, which is to guarantee those who have already lost their jobs, in a condition where the company is insolvent, which does not lose everything that is right. And by virtue of this Fund, in the case of companies declared insolvent or undertakings in recovery or revitalization processes, wages, claims due to workers, compensation for the end of the contract, redundancies, finally what the worker is entitled to is guaranteed by this Fund, which is financed by a part of the TSU (unique social rate) employer paid to social security. In 2015, there was an amendment to the law governing this Fund to transpose the European Directive, to ensure the protection, in the case of undertakings covered by two Member States, and to include in the Salary Guarantee Fund companies under the PER (Special Revitalisation Process) or the SIREVE ( Extrajudicial Business Recovery System ). It follows that these amendments do not take care of all situations, and therefore absolutely unjust situations persist, precisely because of the deadlines for prescription. Consider the example of a worker who has lost his job and goes to the court to claim his credits. The case takes place in court for one year, two years, three years and at the end of three years there is a court decision. So, the worker seeks to execute this decision, but, as the company was considered insolvent, the worker can no longer have access to his claims because the company is insolvent and has already passed the one-year deadline to be able to claim from the Salary Guarantee Fund that minimum guarantee to him of his rights. What the bill of the Left Block wants to do is correct this situation and ensure that, in a context where workers have already lost almost everything, because they have already lost their jobs, their source of income, there is that minimum of the credits of their rights guaranteed to them by social security. This is the objective of the Block project and we hope that there will be a consensus in this Parliament for this small amendment, which can make a big difference in the lives of those who have already lost everything. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Salary Guarantee Fund shall respond to the payment of the emerging appropriations for employment contracts in the event of non-compliance by the employer. This Fund is therefore extremely important for workers. in recent years, in a context of deep economic and social crisis and closure of companies, this fund has taken on or should have played a key role in protecting workers' rights and their living and survival conditions. Despite the decline in the number of business insolvencys — from 10 213 in 2013 to 9502 in 2016, there are still many workers using the Salary Guarantee Fund. According to the latest data issued by the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) for the year 2016, 1379 ACT interventions were carried out, of which 407 relate to late wages, 194 with the application for a late payment declaration, 107 with the Salary Guarantee Fund and 51 with the application for the model of the Salary Guarantee Fund. Obstacles and limitations remain in the access and scope of the Salary Guarantee Fund. It is complex and difficult to meet all legal requirements for access to this mechanism, as well as the definition of deadlines for credit maturity is very limited. There are even situations in which workers, after a court sentence, do not have the possibility to claim the credits, generating situations of deep economic and social fragility, because, in addition to an involuntary unemployment situation, they are totally deprived of their income and the credits they are owed. In addition, there are still delays and inadequacies in the response from the Salary Guarantee Fund ; according to successive news coming from the public, there are many workers who have to wait more than one year to obtain a response from the Salary Guarantee Fund. Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is thus clear that there is a need to amend the rules of operation and access to the Salary Guarantee Fund by strengthening the rights of workers. With this bill, the CFP proposes: the extension of the appropriations paid, taking into account the appropriations which were due within the 12 months preceding the proposal of the action and not only those which had passed six months before; the increase in the limit of the appropriations paid by the Fund from six months to eight months; the simplification, the agility and the decoupling of the procedure, through the imposition of decision deadlines; the imposition of a time limit for the payment of the appropriations, once the decision has been taken on the partial or total deferral of the application submitted by the worker, because, in fact, there is no time limit laid down in the law for this purpose. They are proposals that facilitate and speed up access conditions and impose a deadline. They are effective proposals for valuing work, combating poverty and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u50	Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the discussion of these two legislative initiatives, one from the Left Block and the other from the CFP, it is appropriate to put together a set of fundamental ideas on what is effectively the Salary Guarantee Fund. The Salary Guarantee Fund is not a fund that guarantees workers' claims in insolvency situations, recovery or revitalization — no! The Salary Guarantee Fund is an emergency guarantee instrument in order to support workers without their work under these insolvency and recovery processes. In addition, funding of the Fund is provided not by the State but by employers, through funds provided for in the Code of Contributions of the Preventive Social Security System. Workers' working credits are now classified as preferential credits in insolvency proceedings, and are therefore guaranteed within the framework of the legislative framework for insolvency and business recovery legislation. It is not the Salary Guarantee Fund that responds to these claims, which are still the companies within the applicable legal framework. Therefore, the role of the Fund is to address the urgent difficulties of workers in situations where they are suddenly deprived of their work. It was in this global legislative framework that the creation and functioning rules of the Fund were consolidated in social consultation so that the Fund could effectively respond to its objectives. Overburdening the Fund with conditions of absolute and total guarantee of labour credits, in addition to what is now enshrined, it is not possible, on our own account, to question its own survival and to distort its objectives. To amend the rules on the operation of the Fund in the assessment and decision of payment requests, in particular by halving the decision deadlines and establishing the tacit deferral of workers'requests, is neither realistic nor feasible for the existing services responsible for the evaluation and management of the Fund. Legislative amendments must take into account the reality in which they apply, the objectives they pursue and the concrete limitations of their application. The legislative amendments proposed in the draft laws of the Left Block and the CFP are not realistic today, they are not, in our view, enforceable, distort the objectives of the creation of the Salary Guarantee Fund and question its future sustainability and effectiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u52	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Two bills are under discussion today, Bill No. 241 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), BE, and Bill No 646 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the Portuguese Communist Party, which proposes to amend the scheme of the Salary Guarantee Fund. In fact, already in the previous Legislature, in July 2013, a similar project had been discussed in this House — Bill No. 416 / XII ( 2. ( a ), also from the CFP initiative. The Salary Guarantee Fund is of the utmost importance for workers insofar as it ensures the payment of their credits in cases where companies are in insolvency or in difficult economic situations. Until April 2015, the Salary Guarantee Fund only ensured the payment of the claims of workers whose employer was declared insolvent. But it is important to remember here that it was the PSD/CDS-PP government that approved the new rules for access to the Salary Guarantee Fund, extending the universe of workers covered. Thus, in addition to the insolvency situation, the credits due by employers in a special revitalization process or those who used the SIREVE were covered. It also approved amendments that have gone through the creation of an anti-abuse standard, which determines the refusal to pay in fraudulent cases, this in order to protect the public interest, and, in a logic of temporary stability and legal certainty, workers became one year old to act on the Fund, against the previous nine months. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are talking about a fund managed by the State and representatives of the social partners with seats in the Standing Committee on Social Concertation, so it makes every sense that these matters are placed within the framework of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u55	That is what we did during the discussion of the current scheme of the Salary Guarantee Fund. But not the gentlemen! You, in a somewhat democratic attitude, typical of the left, who just want to impose without dialogue, present these initiatives outside social dialogue...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u56	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u57	...and disrespected by the government that they claim to support.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u58	Exactly! [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u59	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a modern country, with a participatory democracy, requires this dialogue, because it is in dialogue with the social partners that a better resolution of workers' issues can be achieved. It is in dialogue with workers and employers that greater pacification of labour relations is achieved. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, allow me to strengthen three aspects: first, these matters should not be discussed outside social dialogue, social dialogue, social commitment between partners; second, the amendments proposed in the projects of the Left Block and the CFP raise many doubts in their content; and third and lastly, the PSD is always available to improve the legal framework of labour law, so that it is more in line with the rights and interests of workers and employers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u60	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Salary Guarantee Fund was set up in 1999 to pay part of the wages due by insolvent companies and we all know that it has as its main objective to enable late-wage workers to have a way, often the last way, to recover some of the amount they have as a credit from the employer. This Fund has a tripartite management and participation, is managed by the Institute of Financial Management of Social Security, financed by the State and by a portion of the single social rate paid by companies on a monthly basis. in this sense, the Salary Guarantee Fund is one of the last mechanisms where the worker may request and expect to receive labour credits resulting from wages or other and which, due to the situation of the employer, will not be paid to him. The former PSD/CDS government — as has already been said and we all know that it is true, in fact, this is also reflected in the proposals — has seen the importance of this Fund and, therefore, in a considerable reformist process, through Decree-Law No 59/2015, has approved a new scheme of the Salary Fund and has included the special processes of revitalization and the systems for the recovery of companies by extrajudicial means within its jurisdiction. Knowing all of us — and it is consensual — that the Salary Guarantee Fund is of the greatest importance, it is with all caution and care that any changes to its content should be considered. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u62	Prudence means that the impacts must be tested and evaluated and, of course, the best method for doing so is in a dialogueal, concerted way, hearing and involving the largest number of entities, because if everyone wants the Salary Guarantee Fund to be strengthened and not weakened, we will not want the measures — however good they may be the intentions of some of them — to result, after all, in a weakening of this Fund. The strange thing in this debate is that the majority that supports this government has not agreed, it has not jointly evaluated, has not been put to the test in its arguments. Some of the subjects that are brought by these proposals seem to make sense and should be evaluated and it is strange to hear the Socialist Party say, perennially, that they have no support, they are not consistent, they have no sustainability. So we wanted to know if they were tested, if they were evaluated, if the Government and the Socialist Party wanted to lead them into social consultation. This question, this finding of the inability of consultation and evaluation affect these diplomas, I believe, and they compromise us. In conclusion, Mr President, I want to say that we in the CDS are, of course, available to improve, to strengthen the Salary Guarantee Fund, we do not want to do this in a way that compromises its future and we think that the Socialist Party has shown that it has been very open and should lead some of the debates that are proposed here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u63	I now give the floor to Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No worker wants to see himself in the situation of having to use the Salary Guarantee Fund, no worker wants to imagine himself in this situation, because those who have done so have been forced to wait, in some cases, more than one year to have some kind of income. Therefore, they survive in situations of great economic fragility. That is why it is not enough to tell us that there is a fund. If the conditions of access and operation of this fund are so difficult to achieve, it is obvious that, by itself, the existence of this mechanism is not enough. In this regard, the proposals we have brought forward are to ensure better conditions for access to the Fund. It is true that it has been extended to other mechanisms, as has already been said, but it is not true that the rules of access have been amended, so the problem remains, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. What the PS, the PSD and the CDS have said about this is that they live well with this, they live well with the fact that workers today do not have access to the Salary Guarantee Fund. Mrs. Members, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, it is not true that the proposals presented here by the CFP call into question the sustainability of the Salary Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u65	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u66	I'm done now, Mr. President. The sustainability of social security, including other matters, and the Salary Guarantee Fund, are not complied with by employers. Therefore, when it is decided here which side we must be on, or to defend the rights of workers or to penalize those who do not perform their duties, the PS shows that it is on the side of the employers and not the workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u67	To conclude this debate, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u68	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, it is not the State that finances the Fund, it is the companies. In fact, the Fund pays the worker and then becomes the creditor of the company. He also said that workers are privileged creditors in insolvency processes. Right, but the problem is when they can't get anything, and if they resort to the Fund, it's not by choice, it's by necessity. So it is wrong what I said, that the projects want the Fund to give an absolute and total guarantee. It's fake! Either you don't read the projects or you're saying something that doesn't match the truth. The Left Block maintains exactly the criteria that currently exist: at most the previous six months; a maximum ceiling of €9500 for what workers can receive. So I don't even understand where you took that argument from. I will not spend much time commenting on the interventions, especially the PSD, which is the infiniteest version that the Assembly of the Republic would have to make a sort of silent vote on labour matters, because the Parliament of the country, which was directly elected, would be under the veto of a sort of corporate chamber, which is social consultation. But I would like to focus on what Mr. PS said because I think it is wrong to tell you that the Block project is not realistic or distorts the Fund. We are talking about two surgical amendments, which maintain the scope, logic, funding, decision-making and until the deadlines of the regime that exist today. We only want to resolve the demanding situation of injustice of a worker who is going to claim funds, who will claim his claims to the court and because the court decision takes two years, he can no longer go to the Salary Guarantee Fund. We want this worker to be able to do it. If voting against such a simple amendment, as small as this one, the PS only shows that it does not oppose the substantive amendments, it opposes any tiny stir that guarantees more rights under the Salary Guarantee Fund. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u69	Mrs. Members, we turn to the fourth item on the agenda, concerning the joint debate on draft resolution No 1065 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures in the area of pediatric oncology, promoting greater support and protection for minors with oncology disease and their caregivers ( CDS-PP ) of Bill No 649 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the social and labour protection of parents in a framework of assistance for children with oncological disease ( NAP), in general, and for draft resolutions Nos 1092 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to strengthen support for children and young people with cancer ( PSD ), 1094 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening measures in the area of pediatric oncology and support for children and adolescents with cancer and their families ( PCP ), 1095 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement several measures aimed at the protection of children with cancer and their families/caregivers ( NAP) and 1097 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to support children and young people with cancer as well as their caregivers (BE). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS is here today, in what I would report on a happy day, to present a draft resolution that aims to recommend to the Government that it take concrete steps to provide better treatment and support conditions for children with cancer and their families. This is a project born of the need to respond to the concerns and challenges of civil society, combining the expression of needs by associations of parents and caregivers with our knowledge on this matter so relevant and we have been accompanying for a long time. To reduce the suffering of a group of people with notorious vulnerability and to provide them with the best living conditions is our greatest objective and therefore we cannot fail to welcome the fact that most of the parties represented here, with the exception of the PS and the Greens, if they have later been associated with the CDS initiative, also presenting legislative initiatives in this area. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We cannot leave here today to welcome, acknowledge and thank the work of families, associations and volunteers who support children with cancer, associations such as Accrediting or Heroic Fathers, here too present, who are an example of courage, greatness and heroity and have encouraged us to be up to what we as legislators expect, civil society. Well, good for your work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u72	Although being a disease of low prevalence in our country—there are about 400 to 450 new cases per year— pediatric cancer is a highly impacted entity, first in those who register the disease, then in their families and in their own health services and professionals. Despite its rarity, it is the main cause of disease death in children over one year old and, as such, deserving of all our concern and attention. We have, fortunately, a large majority of children who heal themselves and who later live in adulthood, with several sequelae resulting from treatment, requiring prolonged follow-up. We also have children who do not heal and those who come to die, but for all of them, those who heal and those who do not heal, answers must be found that diminish and actively treat their suffering. And it will never be too much to strengthen the need for pediatric palliative care, in which the CDS has also been committed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to the best recommendations and practices, these measures cross different sectors, from education to health, through work and social support, all of which are called to increase the quality of life of these small heroes of daily life. Despite some progress in supporting these patients in recent years, there is still much to be done. Today we have the opportunity to go to meet the multiple difficulties they suffer and to help make a difference in the lives of these people, with concrete and relevant measures. According to reports from associations, state support is insufficient and unwelcome. The problems and obstacles are many and relevant. There are numerous difficulties, ranging from access to follow-up grants, school support, distance education, situations of unemployment discrimination, support and access to palliative care, to lack of information on rights. It is also late — and it is good to remember here today — the implementation by the Government of the status of the informal caregiver, in accordance with the recommendations of this House, adopted consensually over a year ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u73	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u74	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. It is urgent to give concrete answers to these problems, it is urgent to take better care of these people, these children, these families. in this sense, we present this set of 33 measures, which affect the areas of health, education, work and social security. From now on, our commitment is made to other groups of children with chronic illness and their families to present legislative proposals that are extensible to their pathology.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u75	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President. We understand that it is urgent to respond to these people, naturally weakened by the severity of the disease. It is the obligation of the State to protect these families. I hope the government is up to it and do its part, as each of us is doing here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u77	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Every year 400 new cases of childhood cancer are diagnosed in Portugal. Knowing the impacts this diagnosis has on the life of the child and his family and the difficulties it creates, including economic or family life management and reconciliation with professional activity, the NAP today brings the debate of two projects that contribute to improving the living conditions of the child and parents. Currently, the law provides for the existence of a permit for assistance to children with chronic illness, with a duration of six months, which can be extended up to four years. The NAP proposes that this licence may be extended beyond four years if the disease persists or occurs relapse. We also propose that in the critical phases of the disease, particularly in the diagnosis, in periods of acuteization and in the terminal phase, both parents may jointly exercise the leave for assistance, and not just one of them, as is currently the case. In addition, we also propose the creation of a housing allowance to be allocated to the family, when the child needs to do outpatient treatments and they are more than 100 km away. We also believe that all children and young people and their nuclear family — parents and siblings — should be guaranteed an assessment consultation in the psychology service between 15 and 30 days after diagnosis and their regular psychological monitoring. We also propose strengthening teaching teams in hospitals, with the inclusion of more teachers starting from 5. the year as well as the existence of more teachers of 1. the cycle and special education to support the home, and the school reintegration of children with cancer should also be ensured. In view of the costs associated with treatment, we also propose the participation of all medicines intended for the treatment of children with cancer, as well as the dietary supplements prescribed by the oncologist. Finally, the best end-of-life care should be ensured, as well as the best medical practices, particularly with regard to pain therapy, and the necessary means for this should be strengthened. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believe that the proposals we bring today will help to reduce the suffering of parents and children with cancer, at such a difficult time in their lives, the situation for which the State has to have a response. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u79	by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is a special debate, because it is focused on children suffering from cancer. The legislative and political initiatives that almost all parliamentary groups have considered to present on this subject are important. And there are many proposals — almost all but all — very valid and timely. In fact, comparing the PSD projects, CDS, the Left Block, the PCP and the NAP, we find measures in the areas of health and education, social security and work, in which there is genuine concern about the need to strengthen the support given to children with cancer, but also to their parents—true heroic parents—as well as to the other caregivers and family members of these children. That is why I would like to welcome the parliamentary groups that have launched initiatives in this area, confident that we all know how to place the interests of children above political differences or on occasion. But I also want to greet the Association of Heroic Fathers, an entity made up in 2014 and which integrates mainly mothers and parents of children and young people with cancer, for having shared with the Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group their experiences, their concerns and their concerns, thus also making a very important contribution to the draft resolution we are presenting today. On the other hand, I would like to welcome the Portuguese League Against Cancer and the Order of Psychologists for the contributions that these entities generously also offered to the PSD resolution project and which have greatly enriched the proposals that we present to the country today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Pediatric cancer is the main cause of disease death in children over one year of age, and it is estimated that around 350 cases of cancer in children and young people are diagnosed every year in Portugal. Although, among us, the rate of healing of paediatric cancer is relatively high, ranging between 75 % and 80 %, there is no doubt that this disease is a tremendous reality for children and young people who face it, as well as their families. This is why there will never be too much support for these families, whether in the context of social security and solidarity, health or education. Therefore, we present special support measures for these children and their caregivers, seeking that they are better suited to the nature, complexity and durability of this disease. We also seek to ensure that the State guarantees an effective right to equality and non-discrimination of the parents of children or young people with cancer, advocating the allocation of specific financial support when they are unemployed. In addition, we propose measures for the humanization of the conditions of reception of children and young people with cancer in health services as well as for the improvement of their physical and psychological well-being. in the area of education, we propose measures that promote the improvement of school use and the integration and socialization of children and young people with cancer. Finally, we reiterate on this initiative the need for the Government to approve once and for all the status of the informal caregiver, in accordance with which it has been recommended by a number of resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic and still recently recalled by the President of the Republic. With this draft resolution, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party offers its contribution to help the families of children and young people who are victims of cancer and, in particular, the parents of these minors, seeking to guarantee them more just and humanized protection. Having approved the diplomas under consideration, the Government will then know how to implement them and carry out its duty before the country, satisfying the very desires of families that have children and young people with cancer. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u81	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are to congratulate the associations present here on their contribution to alert us to the various problems faced by families of children and young people with cancer. [[PCP applause.]] According to the World Health Organization, in recent decades there has been a significant increase in the incidence of paediatric cancer, in a proportion that suggests that of 6, 250 thousand new cases of cancer diagnosed each year, 4 %, or about 250 thousand, are children. In Portugal, more than 400 new cases of paediatric cancer arise every year, the second cause of death in young people up to 18 years of age, following accidents. Despite these numbers, it has been observed that the survival of children with cancer has improved significantly since the 1970s, and it is commonly accepted that such improvement is due to progress in diagnosis, including early diagnosis, treatment and patient support. For the PCP, these progress are inseparable from the consecration of the National Health Service and the dissemination of health care, both primary and hospital care, by the country. The diagnosis and treatment of cancer has consequences for the patient and the family and covers several dimensions, with a particular impact from the emotional and emotional, social and economic point of view. It is therefore in this sense that we present here today this initiative, which aims to respond to the needs identified, namely: in the field of health and the National Health Service, that the treatment of children and young people to whom cancer has been diagnosed is provided in due time, and that the most appropriate therapies are made available to patients, including new medicines; that psychological support for children and young people with cancer and their families are reinforced at all stages of the disease; that health professionals are hired, be doctors, nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, psychologists or superior social service technicians; that the equipment used in cancer treatments be renewed, and that mechanisms for sharing and allocation of support products and that diet supplements for children and young people with cancer are shared at 100 %. in the field of education, which is permitted access to special educational support for children and young people, in particular to special conditions of evaluation and school frequency; that there is educational and / or home support whenever necessary and there is a clinical justification for this; that the teams placed by the Ministry of Education in hospitals are strengthened so that a better and more appropriate follow-up of these children and young people with cancer is done. in the field of social support to be provided to parents and caregivers of children, which is eliminated the condition of resources, which has been in fact an obstacle to many of these families being able to receive social allowances; that the conditions of access and the amounts of social benefits be extended; that the possibility of extending the child's monitoring licence beyond 4 years be studied, provided that the disease persists or has been repeated to justify it. in the field of work rights to be applied to parents and caregivers, which is guaranteed the obligation of the employer to adjust the working time and the functions to be performed; whether it is carried out in respect of the specific characteristics of the child's caregiver or young person with oncological disease. Finally, effective strengthening of the supervisory means by the Working Conditions Authority, in particular the means and mechanisms for monitoring with regard to the reduction of working hours. This is the compromise of the CFP and that is what we will continue to work on. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u83	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this point, let me begin by congratulating, greeting and thanking the work of all associations, health professionals and all informal caregivers who are discussing this topic on a day-to-day basis. I also present a particular compliment to the Association of Heroic Fathers, which brought us to this House, to the Assembly of the Republic, very specific problems of parents, mothers, family members, caregivers who are in charge of children and young people with cancer and who have given us, with great trust, the difficulties that occur on a day-to-day basis. It has already been said here that pediatric cancer is rare, but each case is dramatic. It has already been said here that it has a high survival rate, it is true, but this cannot make us ignore that it brings serious conditions to life both for children and for young people and for their caregivers. Oncological disease requires a lot of children, family members and caregivers. It requires, above all, a lot of courage and strength, even because it is necessary to overcome many difficulties: for children, aggressive treatment and side effects that occur there, the separation of friends and family members, the need for isolation, regular travel, the interruption of the school journey; for family members and caregivers, wear and wear, distress because they face such a diagnosis, lack of support to cope with expenses with displacements, supplements, medicines, and often the impossibility of accompanying the child in the disease because it is not possible to extend the low care for the minor child. Since 2009 there has been a special protection regime for children and young people with cancer, but it is clearly insufficient in its measures. In fact, it hasn't even been regulated. Therefore, with its legislative initiative, the Left Block presents several measures that it considers to be absolutely fundamental to respond to children, young people, family members and caregivers. They are several, but I summarize them in five or six that seem to us to be central: free transport; sharing of drugs and food supplements by step A; psychological support; strengthening of home care to support, from a health point of view, these people. It is necessary to ensure that the number of teachers working in the National Health Service is increased and that responses to teaching support to the home should be strengthened so that pediatric cancer does not involve an interruption of the studies and the school course and, moreover, allow for the extension of lower child care, that this lower is taken into account for the calculation of the time of service for retirement and that flexible time is allowed without reduction of remuneration for caregivers of children and young people with paediatric cancer. I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that, once and for all, it is necessary to set up and operate the status of the informal caregiver. In addition, the Government is committed to delivering the status of the informal caregiver until the end of this year, in the Assembly of the Republic, and to holding a public hearing. So we expect nothing less than that from this government, and this time it has to be worth it. Applause of BE and the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u85	On behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about oncological diseases, and more specifically pediatric oncology, it becomes impossible to distance ourselves from the pain and suffering associated with them. It is in the eyes of each child that shines the light of hope in a better future. Every year, in Portugal, 6000 children need palliative care, 6000 children and grandchildren of someone, each with their specificity, each with a future to live and stories of achievements to tell. And if it is true that the number of new cases and the number of cancer deaths over the last few decades shows an increasing trend, it is also true that there are increasingly success stories in the treatment of these diseases. And if it is true that we are concerned about the mortality issues associated with childhood cancer, it is also true that we are concerned about the impact of this disease on their patients, their family members and the quality of life of those who survive. No family remains intact after this devastating impact. We are concerned about the continuing involvement of parents; the appropriate environment at age; the right to a multidisciplinary team; access to specialized and reference centres; the right to privacy, special educational support, psychological support, access to innovative therapies, protection of parenthood and, above all, Mrs. Members, respect for the dignity of the child and the family. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, oncology is one of the areas we most need to work, investigate and find solutions. Prevention, signaling and early diagnosis are the key points of the success formula in combating the disease. The XXI Constitutional Government, on page 96 of its action programme, places as strategic priority the integrated approach and proximity of chronic disease, covering, through a prevention programme, oncological disease and also provides for the strengthening of care provided at home and in the outpatient clinic. This government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he goes from role to action: in 2016, he inaugurated the first Paediatric Palliative Care Unit, The Kastelo, in Matosinhos, a paradigmatic example of a government that is linked by its decisive incentive to this conquest; clinical follow-up in the National Health Service today has more targeted professionals, more diversified therapies and disease support resources; has more and better knowledge of the disease, more humanized hospitals, better complementary means of diagnosis, more pain treatment units. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reality we can be proud of. If there is any government that has invested in this matter, it is this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u88	If there is a government that has sought political and partisan consensus in this area, it is this government. Consider the example of the approval in this House of the National Oncological Register. If there is a government that has been next to these families and these children, whose suffering is only devastating, it is this government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party is particularly sensitive to this issue and will therefore continue to work so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u89	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this item on our agenda is thus concluded. We will continue with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 561 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of the increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( sixth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June— General Public Works Act) ( PCP ) and 589 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sets the scheme for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penosity and insanity ( sixth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June—General Public Works Act ) ( PCP ). To present these initiatives, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conditions for the allocation of risk, penosity and insanity supplements were defined in a diploma in 1998, and the figures of compensation, supplements and other royalties to be attributed according to certain specific features of the work provided in the central public administration and local administration. Almost 20 years have passed, these compensations are not yet guaranteed to workers. The deadlines laid down in the diploma have been completely disregarded and compensation due to workers has never been defined and much less paid. Law No. 12 -A / 2008 expressly revoked this diploma without even assigning or regulating the conditions of risk, custodiality or insanity, continuing workers to perform work on these conditions without any recognition of their condition, nor of payment of compensation due.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u92	The obligation to pay the remuneration supplements has become established in the General Law on Public Works, but, deliberately, without determining its scope, its rules of calculation, the mode of payment of these supplements, remaining this obligation in an empty and the workers without payment of any supplement which compensates for any possible or effective damage to the work performed under risk, pessimism or insanity conditions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, the application of the supplement must be dependent on the effective performance of tasks or on the exercise of functions in risk, penosity and insanity conditions, but the allocation of this supplement by insanity or penosity does not constitute a privilege, but rather a right of workers on the basis of the work provided. Just invoke a legal vacuum to not guarantee payment of rights to these workers! Just invoke the need for regulation to postpone payment of this supplement to the workers! This is a demand for workers from central government and local government workers. The PCP brings concrete solutions and is available to discuss them in the specialty. The CFP undertakes this commitment. It is a fundamental commitment to defending workers' rights and improving working conditions. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u93	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear that we cannot remain indifferent to the situation of that worker who, even in the morning, rains or suns, leaves home for the performance of his duties, so that, at dawn, our villages, towns and cities are clean and seated. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, that the PSD has some differences with the CFP, a party proposing this matter. We have mentioned a lot of aspects that distance us, especially in relation to these matters concerning employees of the Public Administration. The CFP proposes that wage increases be created, that holiday and rest days be increased, that the weekly working time be reduced and that certain specific features be created with regard to retirement and retirement schemes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are two reasons for us to distance ourselves from this CFP initiative. The first relates to the fact that this proposal creates serious and severe injustices and inequalities between workers, highlighting even more the gap between private and public workers. In fact, Mrs Rita Rato said that this initiative has a strong impact on local administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u95	Yeah, he does, but he shouldn't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u96	However, the local administration, as you know, with regard to cleaning services, for example, has this matter awarded to external companies and often coexist the same realities in the same space. It is this gap, these inequalities, these injustices, this discrimination that we do not want to exist in the same space and in the proximity of those who perform the same functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u97	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u98	This intervention will be very useful on YouTube!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u99	The second reason is not new in this House. I am talking about the issue of budgetary impacts. The PCP and the Left Block have recently presented initiatives that have no rigor or seriousness in relation to the accounts they present to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u100	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u101	It is strange to realize that, after two years of governance, the Socialist Party itself has not yet introduced a kind of law-work to the Left Block and the CFP in relation to these matters in which we have no guarantee that the rights granted today to workers are guaranteed in the future. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] This protection is being made at all costs to the Left Block and PCP without accounting for costs for Portuguese. I shall end, Madam President, because the time available for me is coming to an end, calling on the Government, as an employer of these workers, to monitor and pay more attention to these matters of hygiene, safety and health at work, so that these workers who are most at risk may be protected. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u102	For an intervention, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot but say that the Socialist Party has always had a vocation of freedom and not of repression, and here I am left with regard to that consideration of the labour law. We have under consideration two draft laws on the provision of work in conditions of risk, penosity and insanity. In addition, the two draft laws apply to local authorities, only one deals with remuneration and the other deals with a different type of compensation — and it has already been said — such as working time, overtime and retirement benefits. On this subject, I would like to make four comments. First comment: the two bills are generous, we do not deny it. Secondly, there are two central questions on this issue, which are the organization of work and the conditions of work. Today they have a spectrum, which is the increasing penosity, accelerated working rhythms, the invasion of private space, the galloping stress with the determination of objectives that have to be achieved. That is to say, more and more emotional and physical wear is part of the daily life of workers and workers and, dear Members and Members of Parliament, this is where the problem lies. Penosity and stress are closely linked to the concept of rapid wear. In fact, some of the measures proposed are based precisely on the legislation in force for the rapid wear and tear professions and not only on certain professions in local authorities. There are currently groups and sectors that claim this quality, such as police, drivers, call centers workers. And we asked, why not nurses? Why not the doctors? Why not the secretaries or the secretaries of the administration of a large company? Why not the stoneworkers? Third comment: our opinion has been consistent, and we repeat it again. The legislative amendments, in our view, do not gain in being punctual and much less immediate, although we grant, as has already been said, that some may even be considered minor. We have until the end of 2017 to do the analysis of the Green Paper on Labour Relations and to formulate the necessary amendments in due course during 2018. This is undoubtedly a subject to be addressed. Finally, Madam President, with the fourth and last comment: this area — and we would like to stress this point — is essentially linked to the negotiating space of trade union organisations, which should not be furnished from the process. For all these reasons, we will not follow these two measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u104	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings the debate in the plenary on the supplements and other compensation resulting from the provision of work under risk conditions, penosity and insanity, proposing to amend the General Law on Public Works. The CDS knows that there are several professions which, because of their special characteristics, place their workers in a risk situation greater than other public service workers. We have a deep respect for all these workers who, with their work, often at night and in an almost invisible way, ensure that our communities work with more quality of life. These workers were not forgotten, as evidenced by the General Law on Public Works, which the PSD/CDS Government approved. in the same way that they were not forgotten, we believe that these workers should not be used by any political force either. Today, the CFP proposes the increase in the value of the allowance, the decrease in working hours, the increase in additional vacation days, the early retirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u106	Do you think they're privileges? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u107	It was good for the PCP to clarify what's coming. Question: Have the CFP negotiated with the Socialist Party the approval of this bill? Did the CFP negotiate with the government to support the approval of this bill? It just doesn't seem, like, in fact, just realized by the Socialist Party's speech. It is proven: the State budget for 2018 has already been delivered and will begin to be discussed next week in this House. There is nothing in the State budget on this matter. What will the CFP do about the State budget? You're going to approve it, aren't you? You haven't been negotiating it? Why is it that none of these proposals are included in the proposal for a State Budget which the CFP has negotiated with the Socialist Party to approve? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u108	You say that you have been able to reduce public service hours by 35 hours, the integration of precariouss, the unlocking of career progression in public service, but the fact is that these workers, also by the PCP, have been forgotten, because otherwise they would have been able to achieve that commitment, which is not the case. So what are these bills actually? They're a PCP simulation! These workers continue and will continue to be forgotten by the left-wing majority, as indeed the CFP has an obligation to know, because it has not negotiated any prior agreement with the Socialist Party for the approval of these proposals. [[PCP protests.]] The CFP should have a little more seriousness and not use public service workers, especially those workers who provide a fundamental service to the community and which you are again using politically. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u109	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that all the rules and laws governing and determining work in public functions have recognized, over the years, the right to this type of supplement, or rights, whether they are employees or others, by the provision of such heavy work, risk or under conditions of insanity. In fact, all laws until today—for example, Law No. 12 -A / 2008 and Law No. 35 / 2014— were recognizing this right, but it has never been regulated. That is why we are not here — and that is certainly not the intention of the CFP when it presented this bill, which we welcome — neither to create nor to constitute any new right for workers who perform their duties in the Public Administration in these conditions with particular difficulties. What is being done is an attempt to regulate a right that is established. What is unbelievable is that the PSD, which is still today—it wasn't last month, it wasn't last year, but today! — brought to this House of the Republic a bill, saying that it did so because it always defended the workers of the Public Administration and that it has no other way of being, now it says that it has always defended the workers of the Public Administration, but at the time of regulating the supplements that the General Law on Public Works recognizes the right, they no longer want, because that means, in fact, realizing rights, and that is what the PSD does not accept. The other argument is equally false, because the PSD, which brought here today a bill so that the State, the public employer responsible for the training of its drivers—but only proposes it to the public, does not propose it to the private—, now accuse this bill for treating unequally public workers and private workers. However, none of these arguments make sense and only shows how the use of the PSD in relation to workers and workers' rights in public functions is false. It sounds fake! The Left Block, in 2005, faced with the lack of regulation of the 1998 decree, which continued to create a legal vacuum for the application of these supplements and rights, introduced a bill to tell the Government to regulate this matter. We know—and the PCP bill also recognises—that, in the allocation of these supplements by insanity, penosity and risk, which constitutes a worker's right, its application must be dependent on the effective performance of tasks or the exercise of functions under risk conditions. A default supplement is not being created; it is necessary to prove that those people in that concrete exercise of that function are in conditions of penosity, risk or insanity. That is why the Left Block, when proposing the regulation of this right, said that the law should be regulated for the central public administration and for the local administration, so that the services, the leaders of one or other administrations could identify the cases in which workers should be entitled to this supplement. It is this regulation, in the same way that we proposed in 2005, that the Left Block believes that it must now lead to speciality within the State budget and that is what we will do, without innovating rights, but only by realizing what is already a right recognized by the General Law on Public Works. What is expected is that if the PSD and the CDS have recognized this right in the Law of Labour in Public Functions, which is yours because they have approved it, then they also want to regulate it, as the Left Block will propose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u111	To conclude this debate, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: to the PSD, Mrs Carla Barros, we only suggest an incentive: a law-work to nonsense because, due to the lack of seriousness in the discussion, the PSD comes with nonsense. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u113	The CDS, which in this matter is very concerned, when Mr Mota Soares was Minister of Social Security what he told the workers about the early retirement age regime, already provided for in the law for workers in the event of penosity and insanity, was the following: - the sustainability factor is applied and these workers are forced to work longer to have access to retirement. Therefore, on the side of the PSD and the CDS we expected nothing more than this position of contempt for the situation of these workers, of deep contempt for workers maneuvering dangerous machines, by water workers, waste and sanitation workers, by urban cleaning workers, by workers who are subject to situations of insanity, risk and penosity, which are of little importance to the members of the PSD and the CDS, because, in relation to the working conditions of these workers, these parties live well with the absence of guarantee of a specific supplement that takes these situations into account. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, we are not satisfied with what you have been saying, invoking multiple situations of the private, because I am telling you, with great frankness, that for the CFP, the State has a first obligation in relation to the private: to recognise in the public first place, and also to serve as an example for the private. In fact, he entered this House, including a bill to discuss the specific conditions for stone workers. Therefore, it is not because of the absence of a proposal from the CFP that this supplement is not guaranteed for all workers who owe it. For this reason, the proposal we make here is very simple: today there are workers in the central public administration and in the local administration who have specific functions, who are subject to conditions of insanity, penosity and risk. Do we live well with this or do we think that this matter should be preserved in the specific supplement? Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, until tomorrow you have time to think more about this. from the PCP side, we know which side we are on! When it is defined in the law, it is defined in the law! in this case, there is an objective legal void. The PS, PSD and CDS lived well with the legal void in the General Law on Public Works because they do not want to pay this supplement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u114	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u115	I will finish, Madam President. See you tomorrow. Members may think better and understand whether they want to follow the CFP in guaranteeing this right to workers or whether they live well with the fact that this right is not safeguarded. We will continue to beat ourselves for this right, because it is fundamental to establish justice and to value the working conditions and living conditions of these workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-26.u116	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of the projects of lein. 561 and 589 / XIII ( 2 ) is thus concluded. ( a). The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda : from point one, there is the debate on the report of the Independent Technical Commission on the rapid analysis and resolution of the facts concerning the fires that occurred in Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertã between 17 and 24 June 2017. In point 2, the assessment of petition No 248/ XIII ( 2 ) is followed. ( a ) — They request the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic for the extension of the deadline for the application of the Transitional Conditions for the Allocation of Professional Certificates, in the professions of Non-Conventional Therapy, both for professionals who have started their professional activity after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September applying the same rules as laid down in Ordinance No 181 / 2014 of 12 September as well as for students who attend and complete their formations (Union of Non-Conventional Therapy Students) together in general with the projects of lein. 648 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September regulating Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 on the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities, amending the scheme for the allocation of professional ballot papers ( PAN), 650 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recognizes and defines the figure of specialist for integration into the teaching body and teaching in the cycles of studies leading the degree of undergraduate in non-conventional therapies ( makes the second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September) ( BE), and 652 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — extends the transitional period for the assignment of a certificate for the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities to whom it has completed its training after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September) ( BE) and draft resolution No 1093 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the Central Administration of Health Systems, IP ( ACSS ) open a new period for applications for the issue of professional ballots intended only for non-conventional therapy students who completed their courses after 2 October 2013 ( CDS-PP ). of point three is the assessment of petition No 257 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request discussion of the issue of chemtrails by the Assembly of the Republic and the adoption of the necessary measures by the Government ( James of Jesus Lopes and others). in point 4, the joint assessment of petition No 157 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They request the revision of Law No 98 / 2015 of 18 August and of Portaria No 403 - B / 2015 of 13 November ( Set up the new RJOC — Legal Regime da Ouribesaria e das Contrastarias) ( Association of Boards and Watches of Portugal and others) and draft resolution No 1099 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the review of the Legal Regime of Ourries and Contrastarias ( BE ). As a fifth and final point, we will have a legislative vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 3 minutes.]]
