ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours.]] I ask the officials of the Authority to open the galleries to the public. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 964 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by modernising the Silves water perimeter, for the benefit of creating conditions of competitiveness for algarvian agriculture ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 965 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a study on the impact of high-voltage lines on the health of populations and suspends the construction of the high-voltage line in Barcelos, studying the alternative possibility of underground placement of cables of the same ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. a and 9. the Commission, and 966 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee to the work of the XXI Constitutional Government in relation to the appointment and resignation of the Administration of Dr. António Domingues ( President of the Assembly of the Republic ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u3	Mrs. Members, the first point on our agenda today is the debate by CDS-PP marking of Bill No 565 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rights of end-of-life sick persons ( CDS-PP ). To present the bill, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality of people with chronic and end-of-life diseases, their right to health and to the best care is, for the CDS, a matter of greatest relevance and which has long mobilized us. We take pride in the way we have gone, of the contributions we have made with the Law of the Vital Testament, the Law of Bases of Palliative Care, the Paediatric Palliative Cares, the resolutions on the Caregiver Statute, all of them approved here. Without prejudice to responding to the most immediate problems that arise every day and the seriousness of which we do not ignore, we do not agree, in a planned and structured way, to make politics for the positive, presenting planned initiatives and measures aimed at problems that afflict the most Portuguese. This is the case with what we are dealing with today. with regard to support for end-of-life sick people, we have taken important steps, but we are still far from doing all that is possible and due in this matter. That is why, last February, we announced a legislative initiative and today we are fulfilling, in order to make our contribution, weighted and structured, responding to this real social premence, to this painful fracture that comes from the fact that thousands of Portuguese people with serious diseases and in the end of their lives may find themselves in unnecessary and avoidable suffering, because they do not have access to the health care they should be entitled to. Conscious of this painful reality is for these citizens, vulnerable and often voiceless, who cannot be ignored or marginalized, that the CDS wants today, in unquestionable respect for unmistakable constitutional values, to present a proposal with a set of measures that we have as decisive and essential. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The constitutional value of the inviolability of human life in any circumstance, a higher reference and true pillar of human rights, and other values arising from it, such as those of dignity and autonomy, guide our proposals. They are not values that assert themselves in opposition to the right to life and will always be higher values to be taken into account. It will never be too much to affirm, as we have done on other occasions in this House, that defending and promoting human dignity is to reaffirm that each human being has an intrinsic, heritage, unique value, not subject to transaction and not dependent on external circumstances, which can justify a lesser value for this human being. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Human life has equal value in all circumstances and therefore deserves protection in all of them. Accepting that undesirable circumstances such as disease, disability, unemployment or human suffering, whether physical or existential, take value from the human being, implies creating the idea that there are lives worth living and others not. The proposals we bring here today have as a backbone the need to intervene actively and in a humanized way in the suffering of thousands of Portuguese with serious and irreversible disease, to give them a dignified and structured response and to fight for their rights. We want to prevent, reduce and treat this suffering, never allowing it to become unbearable, maintained or disruptive. The response, by not exhausting itself, in health care, will always include active and clinical intervention in this suffering, palliative care, eliminating or reducing the problem to reasonable and sustainable levels, but not eliminating the person who experiences it. The provision of palliative care, which is done by specialized teams and regardless of the vital prognosis and diagnosis, includes structured support for the families of the sick, with particular relevance to situations of mourning and overload of caregivers. With this proposal, we would like to put into law a scientifically sound ethical option, supported by reference constitutional values, a proposal that reaffirms and condenses a set of recommendations already available, but dispersed in the Portuguese legal system. We are talking about aspects that are addressed in the European human rights policy itself and also in unquestionable national reference documents, ranging from the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the Basic Care Act, the Vital Testament Law, to the codes of ethics of health professionals to the latest Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care. We will also talk about some innovations that we have introduced, and, in our view, the whole document is an innovative way of looking at the right to good health, but not only, of the end-of-life people. It is in this context that the CDS, reaffirming itself for the protection of life, presents a legislative proposal that condenses and reaffirms a set of rights of sick people and their families, which, in its entirety, densify the consecration of a right not to suffer in a sustained and disruptive manner, when in the context of advanced disease and in the end of life, and also providing for measures to achieve their rights. It is not an alternative to another option, with a frame of possibly related arguments, but, in its essence, very distinct. This is, indeed, a first-line approach, essential for thousands of Portuguese, a set of rights to be guaranteed by the State, so that all citizens — I repeat, all citizens — may feel protected in relation to such a relevant phase of their lives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u6	What rights are we talking about? They are detailed in our proposal, but let us highlight some here. They are rights of informed consent, right to information, in particular on the nature of their disease and treatment options, knowing their objectives, benefits and harm, and the right to refuse disproportionate treatment. They are rights that aim to strengthen the realization of the vital will and the indication of a health care attorney. They are rights that, without prejudice to the competences of health professionals, aim at more active participation in the definition of the therapeutic plan. We are still talking about the right not to be target of diagnostic and therapeutic obstination, as, unfortunately, it is still happening. People in the context of advanced and end-of-life disease have the right not to be target of dysthanasia, through therapeutic and diagnostic obstination, in particular by the application of measures that disproportionately prolong or aggravate their suffering. in cases of suffering associated with advanced diseases and end-of-life situations, health professionals are neither ethical nor legally obliged to maintain life at the expense of more suffering for the patient and all interventions should be guided by this assumption, in an adequacy of the objectives of care and therapeutic effort, without neglect, and in respect for the laws of the arts and the inevitability of death, produced in these cases by a disease that is itself progressive, incurable and irreversible. The practice of therapeutic obstination is therefore condemnable and punishable, as it already occurs today from the deontological codes of health professionals, which emphasize that it should be avoided at all costs. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We also propose that people in the context of advanced disease and end of life should receive strict treatment of their symptoms. in this matter we want to highlight what we propose, because it is innovative, in cases where it is evident an acute confusing state or the sharpening of a previous state, with associated psychomotor agitation, so frequent in elderly people and in the end of life. We point out that the first measure is not physical restraint, which leads to the improper immobilization of patients who have been weakened by the use of appropriate drugs for the purpose and dependent on medical prescription. If our proposals are approved, as we hope, this will become a right. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We also highlight the right of people with an estimated life prognosis of weeks or days and who have symptoms of suffering not controlled by the first-line measures provided for in good palliative care practices receive palliative sedation. It will be done with duly titrated sedative drugs—i.e. increased, which does not include morphine, safe but intended for other purposes—and adjusted exclusively for the purpose of treating suffering, in accordance with the principles of good clinical practice and the laws of art. They are principles that show that this practice, if properly performed, is reversible, does not imply total loss of consciousness and does not shorten life. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. For the suffering of people in the end of life, demanding and constructive answers, dignified and humanizing answers are asked. There are subjects that transcend ideologies, there are subjects that, because of their relevance, appeal to consensus. That is what we are looking forward to here today: a broad consensus. Because the matter of suffering in the end of life so requires. Because it will have to be in consensus—and not only when encouraged by divergence—that we are able to mobilize the best of our energies. It is the society that asks for it that is thousands of people who ask for it and we have the responsibility to make it happen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] A first step will be the feasibility of the proposals presented by the CDS today on the rights of people in the end of life, but we will not be able to remain simply for an approval which later does not translate into concrete progress. These proposals are a challenge for health services and professionals, society and politicians. We must be bold and courageous, we must commit ourselves even more. As I said before here and today I want to repeat, it will be a duty of all to safeguard life, physical and spiritual integrity, freedom of thought, belief and expression and pluralism of opinion and organization. This is the humanist vision that the CDS defends for a modern society, the one that has in the protection of life the foundation of fundamental rights, a demanding society that does not rule out the most vulnerable or those who suffer and which expands their horizons. We won't abdicate this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u7	Six of them were registered. Members to ask for clarification, to which the honourable Member will respond, as you have forwarded to the Bureau, in groups of three. To that end, you have the floor, first of all, Mr António Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u8	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, the CDS-PP is presenting today a bill on the rights of end-of-life sick people as if it were something new and original. however, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has nothing new, nothing original. Palliative sedation is common practice in our hospitals. And the law already regulates informed consent, vital will, the health attorney, treatment options, privacy and confidentiality, refusal of therapeutic obstinacy and access to palliative care. Mrs. Member, where's the news? Where's the originality? [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also ask you, Madam Member, whether the CDS is prepared to discuss other end-of-life rights, such as the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u10	Or if, on the contrary, it intends, with this bill, to close the possibility to another discussion, stating as the only option palliative care and palliative sedation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: To recognize death and assign meaning and demand to the process of death are today the guidelines of anthropological and philosophical thought. If there is a universally accepted right to life, there is also a right to death in conditions of dignity without suffering and with affection. We agree that life is an inalienable right. We fully agree that palliative care should reach everyone through the SNS — we are, in fact, working to achieve this through the formation of human resources, properly prepared and accredited. We created the National Committee on Palliative Care ( CNCP ). We created the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care. We opened the first Iberian pediatric palliative care unit, The Kastelo, with 20 places. We will create 320 beds in palliative care in this year of 2017. We have retold the portal that regulates the participation to 90 % of opioid drugs in an outpatient regimen for the treatment of chronic disease. We introduced the consultation of palliative medicine in the Time and Time Consultation for specific palliative care teams. We include palliative care as a clinical justification for access to transport of non-emergency patients. I ask you, Madam Member : besides having created the Basics of Palliative Care Act, which we welcome, what did the previous PSD/CDS government do to implement initiatives in the area of palliative care? [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if he did nothing, of two, one: either he did not have the will, or he did not constitute a priority. Now that he has will, he understands that he can and must be a priority. I ask you, Madam Member: what did you do to change your opinion in so little time, in about a year and a half? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The discussion on end-of-life care cannot, nor should, be mixed with the discussion on euthanasia and/or assisted suicide. They are related matters, which, however, must be discussed in an isolated way, because, regardless of whether we are against or in favour of the possibility of our citizens being able to abdicate their rights to live, we can always discuss ways to improve the treatment or relief of disruptive suffering. On this subject, Mrs Deputies, we are therefore talking. In view of this, is the CDS prepared to evolve into another discussion of end-of-life rights? It is in this assumption that the values, beliefs and convictions of each one set our limits of action. We do not do what we do just because it is possible, but because we choose to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u11	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u12	I'm done now, Mr. President. Medical controversy and ethical controversy are projected on the universe of law. Finally, I ask you: what is the need to legislate in a matter where ethics and medicine are not controversial and where law alone can already give effect? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u13	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u14	Mr President, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, the bill that the CDS brings us does not recognize any new rights, because all those consecrated are already enshrined in the law. We need no more laws and much less 'condensate' — a word that is used in the explanatory statement of the CDS bill — to fill an empty bill of something new. What we all need is to strive to make them more and more respected and better comply with the laws we have on patients' rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u15	But more than that, the CDS bill reaffirms and condenses these rights to deny the right of choice of assisted death. That's your only goal. So this bill is a mess. It is that, under the cape of conferring rights, it does not deny rights, under the cape of consecrating choices, what it does is to keep the field of choices limited. A second point is this: in the urgency of imposing this debate now, the CDS even undermines respect for the time of public debate on assisted death, for which it has so much appealed to the President of the Republic and which has so far been taken over by all. The CDS today unleashed the debates promoted by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, and even ignored, with pride, the trajectory of petition No. 250 / XIII ( 2. a ) — All Life has dignity ( Portuguese Federation for Life ), which has been under examination in this House for a long time and which the CDS has, in fact, defended. So quickly, in the illusion that a trick will be enough to stop the decriminalization of assisted death! They do not agree with that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! A third observation is this: says the draft law of the CDS that «In a context of promoting dignity and the autonomy of the human being, the situations of suffering of the same justify multiple actions of the collective, which cannot ignore the cases in which human beings are experiencing situations that attack these same dignity and autonomy. And he adds: «... society is obliged not to be indifferent and, (...) find dignified answers in order to prevent, reduce and treat this suffering(...) ». But I ask you, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto: how do you and your parliamentary group promote dignity and autonomy by denying each one's right to choose as he will and how he does not want to respond to suffering, as he wants and how he does not want to respond to physical and moral degradation, as he wants and how he does not want to respond to the dependence of others or the irreversible loss of the standards of dignity that he has set for himself throughout his life? Madam Member, how does it promote dignity and autonomy, denying the autonomy that defends dignity?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u17	Finally, and more than anything else: this bill shows that the CDS strategy is even putting in alternative palliative care and decriminalization of assisted death. It contrasts palliative sedation with assisted death, making palliative sedation what it is, in fact, not because it is nothing new, it does not bring anything new, it is not new as a solution, it has been practiced in our hospitals for years. And, in practice, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto knows as well as I do — she has an obligation to know better than I and most of our Members — that palliative sedation is no more than slow death and agony. I therefore end with a second question, Mrs Deputies: what is more true and what is more wrong, and what is more respectable of humanist traditions? Is it to consecrate slow and unconscious death, as does the CDS bill, or is it to shorten agony and anticipate death at the request of itself? The difference between us, Madam Member, is that I want the law and society to allow, freely and responsibly, all these options, provided they are choices and not impositions, while the Member and her parliamentary group want to prevent the choice for all to be able to impose your choices. We see neither tolerance nor democracy in this position of the CDS. But, frankly, that no longer surprises us. [[Congratulations from BE and the deputies of PS Elza Pais and Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u18	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u19	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, the legislative initiative that the CDS presents to us today affects the area of health, more specifically the rights of end-of-life patients and the provision of palliative care. Now, we believe that in the area of health, there is much to do in palliative care, but not only. And there is much to be done, especially after all the government that the CDS-PP has integrated into this area. As the honourable Member will certainly be reminded, the previous government has set its policy for the health sector in four central vectors: first, in blind cuts in an area as sensitive as the health area is; second, in the closure of health services throughout the country; third, in a deliberate and intentional effort to attribute health costs to users; and fourth, but not least, in an attempt to benefit private groups with health interests. So, after all that the previous government has done in the field of health, there is indeed much to do and much to restore. First of all, there is a need for significant strengthening of public investment, an investment that allows the network of public equipment to be expanded both in continuous care and in palliative care. In particular, it is necessary to strengthen investment in available human resources, to create specialized teams and to strengthen the training of professionals in order to provide the health care that people need and thus to ensure compliance with the right to health with quality for all Portuguese and Portuguese. Specifically with regard to patients suffering from serious, advanced and incurable diseases, it is clear that these people should have access to palliative care, regardless of their estimated prognosis. On this matter, we have no doubt. In addition, patients suffering from severe, advanced or incurable disease should not only be entitled to palliative care such as this care should be provided by teams of properly qualified health professionals and using effective technical means for monitoring the patient but also for supporting their families. Moreover, Mrs Deputies — and here we certainly disagree — must, in our view, be public in order to ensure universal access to care, because the right to health cannot be just for some — that is, it must be for everyone. in this legislative initiative scheduled for today by the CDS-PP and now presented by Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, it aims to strengthen the rights of end-of-life patients with serious and irreversible disease and prognosis from 6 to 12 months of life. To this end, the CDS proposes the consecration of the right to palliative sedation as a way to avoid the suffering of patients in this situation. It also proposes the CDS for end-of-life patients to participate in decisions on their treatment. That is, in 11 articles that constitute the bill that the CDS presents to us today, we have not been able to see anything new, we have not been able to see anything new in addition to what already exists, no newity or any reinforcement of any right in this matter. But, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, when we discuss the bill that the CDS brings today for discussion and, above all, about the exhibition of reasons accompanying it, we have serious doubts about the real intentions of the CDS-PP on this legislative initiative. We do not know whether this legislative initiative has been built and thought to be of greater concern to end-of-life patients and palliative care or whether the initiative merely intends to anticipate the debate on assisted death. We don't know if the real recipients of the CDS bill are the end-of-life patients or the people who defend assisted death. We do not know whether the real concerns of the CDS in this agenda lie in the need to strengthen people's rights to palliative care or whether the concerns of the CDS are of another nature and another dimension. Therefore, Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, my request for clarification is very clear and objective: which are the true and real recipients of this legislative initiative that the CDS presents to us today?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u20	Mr. Deputy, I ask you to finish. It's been a long time since.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u21	I will finish, Mr. President. What was the real intention of the CDS-PP in presenting this bill? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u22	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies Antonio Sales, José Manuel Pureza and José Luís Ferreira. I think it will be at least not known to say that there is no kind of novelty in the project that we present— which is, in fact, cross-border to the three benches—because, as we have been careful to say, knowing that there are some recommendations that are dispersed in the Portuguese legal order, there is an innovation that stems from the fact that density. Mr. José Manuel Pureza spoke of condensing, I would say, of densifying and assigning to them such relevance that we believe that they should be looked at as a right. Therefore, we understand that the attitude not to look at these people, whose rights are not being guaranteed, as second persons, is innovative. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We understand and understand others who, fortunately, have worked with us in this matter. When all three of you are. Members say that there is no novelty, I say again that you have not read carefully. Above all, I would like to say that this concerns me, and very much, because when I hear you all three, particularly Mr.António Sales, it makes me think that everything is okay with the people who are in the situation of suffering and in the end of life. But at least he who is close to this reality, who accompanies him day by day—and our journey speaks for us—he knows that it is not true, that it is not all right. And what you have said — let me first of all tell you — is a challenge to the thousands of Portuguese people who, now without support and in difficult situations, know, first of all, that their rights are not properly guarded or protected. So, we're calm, backed up by who? That is why every day we are told that something else needs to be done and that needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u24	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u25	Indeed, this debate, with due intellectual and political honesty, cannot ignore reality. According to recent data from the Health Observatory, there is a large proportion of Portuguese people who do not have access to palliative care. And see, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not want to attribute any guilt to anyone. We really want to move to the second point of our project - to say that the focus of today's debate is on the set of measures that have to do with a response to suffering, which the CDS believes should not delay. It has nothing to do with the debate on euthanasia, as much as you want it to be the debate that must be held, which we do not steal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u26	That's not true! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u27	Are you going to let me finish, honourable Member? It is therefore wrong for those who think that only the question of euthanasia exists with regard to the lives of people at the end of their lives. There is, fortunately, much more life in the lives of people in the end of life than the debate of euthanasia The CDS will not steal from this debate. I repeat: the CDS will not steal from this debate! But this debate is not, in fact, about assisted death, which is what we are talking about today: assisted death with medical care, assisted death with social monitoring, with the legal follow-up these people lack. It's, in our understanding, narrow sights...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u28	Streaking sights? Oh, my God! Look what your government has done!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u29	... and lack of political vision do not consider these rights to such a large group of people that obviously are set in your eyes waiting for you, on a matter that is neither left nor right, you have the ability to be next to them, reaffirming a set of rights and establishing new rights that dignify them. This, yes, is to be with people who suffer, is to give an answer to the problem of suffering, is to give an answer to the problem of people who continue, unnecessarily, to be unprotected and this House today has the opportunity to do more and better on end-of-life rights. That is why we have put forward this proposal — in fact, as has recently happened in Spain and as has already happened in France last year — which, not being a set of exactly the same proposals, does not in any way embarrass the Portuguese Parliament. The CDS, I repeat, is proud of the group of proposals it presents today because indeed for the thousands of Portuguese who need more answers, despite all the progress that has already been made, these proposals represent a civilizational advance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u30	Madam Member, there are more entries for requests for clarification. The first is the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Isaura Pedro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, first of all, I begin by congratulating the CDS on this initiative. In fact, the bill presented here today is a balanced project in its solutions and strengthens, clarifys and systematizes the rights of patients in the end of life, provides a good service to society and means an appreciation of the person as a holder of a dignity that must be untouchable. Despite this, there are doubts about certain aspects and solutions contained in it, which I would very much like to thank the honourable Member for being clarified. From that point on, the question of why the CDS considers that a person can only benefit from rights now proposed when there is an estimated life forecast of 6 to 12 months. If it is true that in these cases a person has the right to access palliative care, in others, where the prognosis is even, unfortunately, less than half a year, would it not make sense for him to also apply the regime that his party now proposes? And as this question is discussed, as provided for in Article 2. the provisions of Article 7. the draft law on the short life forecast? On the other hand, this is an area where there is still much to be done and I, as a doctor, consider it to be of the greatest importance the comprehensive approach and follow-up carried out by multidisciplinary teams. We know that, unfortunately, these teams are scarce in health services. There are few multidisciplinary teams with adequate training in palliative care. So, I ask you what confidence you have in increasing medical, nursing and other professionals in palliative care in our health system and, in particular, in the National Health Service, and it is considered that this bill could make a good contribution to the awareness of health professionals for the very special condition of the patient at the end of life? In conclusion, it would be important for a consensus to be achieved in this House, because, overcoming ideological prejudices and realizing that any initiative aimed at improving the rights of patients, for the most part when in the end of life, is something that should unite us all and not divide by mere party sectarianism. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u32	To request clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS today called on Members to discuss existing laws and codes of ethics. It seems to indicate that this is a project aimed at the consecration of new rights for the sick in the end of life, it is only a compilation of rights already existing and legally enshrined. Let us see: the CDS provides for the patient's right to information about the disease, the prognosis and the treatments available, as well as the need for consent of the patient — it is already enshrined in the Code of Denotology of the Medical Order. The CDS defends the prohibition of dysthanasia, which is already very clearly provided for in the Code of the Dentological Order of the Physicians. The CDS also defends access to palliative care, which is already foreseen in the Palliative Care Bases Act. The CDS also provides for other clinical rights already regulated, including the possibility of performing a vital will and appointment of health care prosecutors, resulting from the Vontade Anticipated Directives ( VAD ). Thus, the comparison between this project and the legislation in force results in that there is no strengthening or extension of rights, only and only if it is intended to reaffirm a set of recommendations already available. So, and why does the CDS not bring substance to discuss, the question that arises is: what really is the objective of this project? Is the CDS outlining a new legislative technique that is to legislate on what already exists and on everything we already agree on? Or are we facing a number of illusionism? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This project aims to lead people to believe that new rights are being granted to those who are in advanced and end-of-life conditions, however not resulting in any measure that is innovative. The CDS scheduling is used to reaffirm the obvious and try to condition the debate around the decriminalization of assisted drug death. It is only in a way of the CDS to bring the issue, in the fulfilment of a castrative ideological agenda, without adding anything again, with the aim of disrupting the debate that is being held around this topic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u35	Without prejudice to these considerations, the NAP agrees with all the measures proposed by the CDS. As the CDS defends in its explanatory statement, we also defend and promote human dignity, we also defend that human beings have the right not to be in suffering, we also defend access to palliative care, whatever the prognosis estimated as an inalienable right of Portuguese, and we fight for the protection of all citizens, guaranteeing their rights at the end of their lives. What we also defend, Mrs Deputy, in addition to the rights listed by the CDS, is access to assisted drug death, a legitimate option of those who suffer, as an expression of autonomy and individual freedom. Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, I would like to ask you the following question: does the CDS really believe that, by repeating proposals with already planned rights, it will improve and strengthen the rights of people in the end of life? And besides palliative sedation, which defends, is or is it not time for the State to have an alternative and dignified response for those who suffer? [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u36	For the last requests for clarification, Mr João Ramos, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, the CFP will make an intervention where it will address the issue that the CDS here today brings to us and therefore I would like to focus on the speech of the honourable Member. The honourable Member has made an intervention focusing on palliative care, giving great emphasis to the question of the dignity of people. He even said that they are subjects of great relevance to the CDS and that long ago they mobilized this party. Before I put my question to him, I wanted to start with a statement. He said that people's rights were very important to the CDS, but the honourable Member forgot about them as she ruled, forgot about families and their dignity of life. He recalled reducing the country's deficit at the cost of family income and rights. He even forgot his family visa, which was so expensive to the CDS. The honourable Member may now speak in the dignity of the person, but what she has behind her and her party is a history of attacking people's rights and dignity. I would like to ask you the following question: in 2012, it was unanimously approved the Palliative Care Bases Act, based on and from a CDS project which was, however, discussed with a more expanded set of projects. And, therefore,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u38	At least the CDS did something!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u39	... it is from this discussion and this initiative that I would like to talk about what the CDS has been mobilising for a long time. at the time, and in the discussion of this project, the PCP remembered that palliative care was the essential aspect of health care, but also remembered that money was needed to do what was proposed in the project. It even said the PCP that there was a contradiction between the good principles that were included in the bill and the bad policies that the CDS, together with the PSD, applied in relation to the financial resources of health. Mrs. Deputy, Law No 52 / 2012, the Basics of Palliative Care Act, was based on a draft law of the authorship of the CDS and then needed to be executed. And to implement this law it took two things, including the first of the so-called BASE XXIX of the same law, which says there will be a specific budget allocation within the budget of the Ministry of Health. Now even today I have confirmed the maps of the Ministry of Health for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, and there is no specificity regarding palliative care. Secondly, another basis indicated that the necessary regulation was needed for the production of effects and that this regulation had to be made in 120 days. The law entered into force in January 2013 and therefore the regulation had to be ready until May 2013. in this period the PSD/CDS government has done nothing to regulate the Palliative Care Bases Act. So far five diplomas have been published, only one of them is the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS and has been published since the 4 October elections. In addition to the other decrees, this government has also made seven protocols between the Ministry of Health and several university institutions on this subject. So the CDS proposed the law, but forgot to do what was essential for that law to come into force. The honourable Member spoke in the face of the patients and those who need this care, but I would say that it was to make a law and not create the conditions for it to enter into force. She speaks in consensus today, and the PSD has also spoken in consensus, but they are of no use if there is no execution. On this particular law — the Basic Law on Palliative Care — there was a consensus, it was unanimously adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, but then you did not do what you needed to have done. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, being this matter which has so mobilized the CDS, which has long mobilized the CDS, why has the CDS, having ruled three years after the publication of the law, not created the conditions for it to enter into force and thus give these people dignity? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u40	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Isura Pedro and the Members for their questions. Mr André Silva and Mr João Ramos. I begin by clarifying that when we mention a life-threatening prognosis of 6 to 12 months is up to 6 or 12 months and this obviously includes people with less life expectancy, and therefore this question can be duly clarified. As far as training is concerned, for us, in the positive and constructive perspective with which we are putting these proposals, it is clear that everything that should strengthen, in terms of the relevance of end-of-life issues, calls for more steps to be taken. Already here, in this House, and on our own initiative, legislative proposals have been adopted in order to be mandated to strengthen the training of health professionals in geriatric and end-of-life issues. In fact, they are again accusing us that there is no novelty and I am telling you again that, indeed, it seems to us that we need to have reduced sights to ignore and not know the reality that goes beyond the provision of palliative care and that, indeed, concerns thousands of people — you cannot deny — that, because of the responsibility of all the entities involved, they could be in better condition at their end of life and are not. For us, Mr André Silva, this reality is enough — if I may say it — to resubmit initiatives, to present a set of initiatives, as rights that respond to suffering, because in fact, with regard to the suffering of people at the end of their lives, the agenda goes far beyond the question of euthanasia. Therefore, what we are concerned about is that in this House only one subject can be discussed, which is euthanasia, when, in relation to the suffering in the end of life, there is more life than euthanasia, there is more needs and that is why the CDS presents this bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For most of the people who are in the end of their lives, it should be said, Mr President, that it is not euthanasia the solution they are interested in,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u42	No new proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u43	...interests them to have more quality of life. You cannot say that there are no new proposals, because this reveals only ignorance of reality, ignorance of what is happening in our country and ignorance of the proposal that we have tabled, because there is indeed news. I am saying again that, in the matter of end-of-life suffering, to strengthen, to increase is not little. I don't know why they lower, why they are afraid to lower what concerns the reality of thousands of Portuguese. It cannot be minimized. Therefore, the CDS will insist that this agenda be discussed here, with courage, with capacity, and not in a reductive way. The focus of our debate today is on rights, it is not on the organisation of services, it is not on euthanasia, debate we have never stolen and we will be here to do so in our own time, but not today. They do not want to debate what we did not come here to debate today. I wanted to conclude by saying that we do not see that the proposal of palliative sedation is a minor thing, until, and again by ignorance, we can speak, as we have already mentioned, of slow death. The palliative sedation does not shorten life, it does not imply a loss of consciousness, and that Mr should know before he makes certain statements, which confuse and fight those who are listening to us. Indeed, palliative sedation is a treatment, not of the first line, does not serve to shorten people's lives, does not serve to give them a death in agony, as you want to make them believe. That's not serious, sir. In fact, it must be said that there are many other answers to situations of suffering, and palliative sedation is one of them, but never in the first line, and never in a slow death. You spoke — and well — about the value of autonomy and dignity, but you did not hear when I, from that rostrum, said that dignity and autonomy do not claim against the value of life. In fact, he will have to explain this to us, because I do not understand how he wants to affirm dignity and autonomy when he eliminates the subject who experiences dignity and autonomy. Carrying it, it does not strengthen autonomy by eliminating the subject who experiences it. This debate, Mr President, we will have huge opportunities to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u44	They're doing it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u45	As you see, so as not to confuse, because several times,... [[BE's protests.]] As I said several times — to be clear — they insisted that the debate was about palliative care and not about euthanasia, but then it was about euthanasia. I would like to make it clear here that the focus and intention of the CDS are: to strengthen rights, to increase the protection of people in the end of life. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u46	I don't know how you guys can be against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u47	He's hurrying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u48	The Portuguese won't understand. If you are in favour of all rights, why not be in favour of what we are densitying today, wanting to structure and want to improve? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u49	In fact, the Portuguese will not understand why, in terms of rights and protection of the most vulnerable, they do not follow the proposals we are making here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u50	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Rights of the sick people in the end of life. The announcement of the CDS initiative "The rights of sick people in the end of life" picked up the country of surprise. Public opinion was not waiting for the temporary priority given to this initiative by the party which submitted it, for the simple reason that a serious debate should take place in the country, based on the possibility of end-of-life patients, at their request and in a conscious and informed manner, to be able to opt for an assisted death. The CDS announced it as if it were a novelty, stressing the need to ensure a comprehensive, effective and effective intervention in the suffering of people in the end of life. What right would the bill add? Socially, our country has in the present Constitution the necessary guarantee of a general, universal and trendy health policy for free and, in addition, the guarantee of a set of rights, freedoms and personal guarantees which not only confirms all fundamental rights recognized by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as, to a large extent, goes further, even consecrated new generations of rights. After a detailed analysis of the project, we realize that the CDS has arranged a way of wasting time, from the very moment that it does not add any rights to the end-of-life sick people, it is limited to a statement of rights already enshrined in common medical practices — desirable to alleviate pain, it is true — where palliative sedation appears. As a well-known doctor and many of us know, Dr. João Semedo, «As a medical practice, palliative sedation is no longer that slow death, agony at slowing down, by medical decision, as happens in thousands of situations in our hospitals. e« (...) is common practice in our hospitals, either in units providing palliative care or in boarding services. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, being a modality of palliative treatment, which is what it seems to be—so the experts and Mrs. Isabel Galliça Neto say, that it is, honor be made to you, a highly recognized specialist— why was this treatment then brought to the bill? This, yes, is something new. Are we today discussing concrete treatments in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic? Oh, my God! Strangely, the only right that the CDS does not protect in its project is the right to self-determination of patients. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Living is a right and protecting life is a duty of the State. No one contests it, but we cannot prevent everyone from having the right to be treated as a singular citizen, in genuine individual authority, a unique architect of himself and not as an abstract model of treatment. It is obvious that patients need to be helped in times of anxiety or empty crises, and they have long been, helped and respected in health services and their professionals. And from now on, I would like to thank all the health professionals, who have been inexhaustible to those who are vulnerable and end-of-life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, novelty, Mrs. Member, as much as it costs you to hear, there is none. The title is good, the exhibition of motives is long and careful, but the articulate does not reflect either care, nor the novelties, nor the object of the project. Otherwise, let's see: the whole bill is indeed a set of redundancy. But I will tell you a little bit about this evidence, even though Mr. André Silva of the NAP has already done so. The rights referred to in Article 3. the ( Rights in Information and Treatment) are, in addition to being enshrined in an article of the Constitution, provided for in the Health Bases Act and also in the Personal Genetic Information and Health Information Act. as regards Article 4. the ( Therapeutic and Diagnostic Obstination), the Charter of the Rights and Duties of the Patients exhaustively lists the rights appropriate to the health status of each patient in particular. The care referred to in Article 6. o ( Palliative Care) are already framed in their own legislation, the Law of Bases of Palliative Care. To conclude, Articles 8. o, 9. a and 10. this non-project refers to non-clinical rights, which are already enshrined in the law that regulates the anticipated directives of will, the vital will, and the appointment of health care prosecutor and that creates the National Register of the Vital Testament. All this is redundancy, all this is already enshrined in our legal system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have arrived here, are confident that the advertiser party — as this initiative itself is not — will end up in itself, especially because it has reason to know that these non-proposals will have no other effect than a defiant debate for the image which it has built itself and for the end of our parliamentary session. in this Parliament, Mrs Deputies, and using her own words, there is no narrow view, no reduced view, there are rather different opinions which the honourable Member did not want to respect. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u52	Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u53	Mr President, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has known me a few years ago and will certainly confirm that I have the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party's role in the exercise of democracy is a huge respect. This is because I consider the Socialist Party a fundamental party for Portuguese democratic health. She also knows that I have particular respect for the one who has been the Member of Parliament in this House, in particular for the functions she performs in the Parliamentary Committee on Health, but I am sorry to tell you, with all due respect, that the Member of Parliament today is guilty of a defect which I have to point out to you and to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party : too much availability. That's because the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Committee on Health are indeed available for everything and, in this case, they have come here in an exercise of availability, they have made themselves available to confuse a serious debate on the quality of the network of continued care and palliative care with the rights at the end of life of people and with what is a discussion, which you want to bring to intoxicate this debate, the radical left trailer, about euthanasia, which is a completely different debate, Mrs Deputy, and this is an exercise that we do not let go side by side without being duly pointed out. If the honourable Member expresses her willingness here to exercise a change of theme or to try to take the subject that we are discussing for other ways, I am sorry, Madam Member, that I also have the same willingness as the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to ask you some questions that have to do with its availability. Now let us see: explain to me how the honourable Member and her parliamentary group can be available to defend the Minister of Health who has already increased the amount of late payments to hospitals by 44 % in two years! Tell me how the honourable Member is willing to do this! Indignant! Mrs Deputy, explain to me how it is available to defend a government that is already responsible for a brutal debt of the National Health Service ( SNS ) to suppliers around EUR 2000 million! Explain to me, because it's about the people we're talking about. We are just walking to the same place where we were walking in 2011 when the pharmaceutical industry rejected the sale of medicines to public hospitals, Mrs. Deputy! And in the end, it is the state that will fail with people, as, indeed, it has failed in other circumstances because of your incompetence. I ask you: is it available or is it not available to continue to defend this type of health policy in Portugal? But, and I am going further, your government, in view of the former government, has already cut public investment in health by 40 %. In fact, your government has done more, your government has cut itself, as far as its own position or investment forecast in the SNS is concerned. We are already in July and the government has only executed 20 % of what it planned to carry out for the whole year in health measures. Madam Member, are you or are you not available to continue to defend this type of health policy? I shall finish, Mr President, with one last question. A resolution of the Assembly of the Republic which enshrined the Statute of the Informal Caregiver was adopted in this House more than a year ago. Well, Mrs Deputy, more than a year later, the government you bear has done absolutely nothing. I repeat, more than a year later the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group did nothing, zero! I ask you, Madam Member: what is your availability? Is it to be with the Minister or is it to be with the people who need such care and that there is an urgent need for a response from the State, because unfortunately these people have no other means to do so? Thank you, Mr. President, for your tolerance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u54	In reply, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u55	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, I begin by thanking you for the kind words you spoke to me and telling you that after these kind words you accused me of confusing the debate, of bringing to the debate something that was not under discussion, of defending a debate that takes place in society. Well, the honourable Member fell into the same mistake,... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] ... because, in accusing me, you spoke of everything less palliative care or the rights of sick people in the end of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u56	What did you say about palliative care? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u57	Mr President, by answering you very specifically, I must say that my availability is complete to work — and we are already doing so — in the legislation of the informal caregiver. In the short term, the honourable Member will also be called upon to cooperate and to contribute, so we want it, for this leap, which has to do with home care. As you know, the government I stand for and I am available to continue to support — and I am very proud to support the government of'management' —... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] ... currently, in the area of health, still with problems, it is true, he has already executed 70% of the Programme that was borne by the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u58	Don't play with serious things!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u59	I no longer agree with the honourable Member when he tries, in a way that has turned against you, I apologize to him, to accuse me of something that you practice, which is to have no opinion, to say nothing, on the issue that is open. In fact, the project that is under discussion today, if it somehow reinforces the government's policy of palliative care, and this I take it here, because, in fact, it reinforces,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u60	It's a cobbler!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u61	... does not bring, nor does it add any rights. And, therefore, the honourable Member had no one to say: "It is true, there is no novelty! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, I must say, with the utmost frontality, that you know what my personal position is with regard to assisted death, but we are not talking about the right to legalization or decriminalization of euthanasia, that is not what we are talking about but, yes, about the rights of patients in the end of life, and about this, neither did you say a word. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u62	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are no pretenses in this debate. The bill presented today by the CDS is an anti-projet of law. The CDS did no more than come to mark its place in the debate that the country is doing about decriminalization of assisted death. Without having the courage to say expressly, this project is a project about assisted death to deny its decriminalization. This project is nothing other than that, an unequivocal statement from the CDS that he wants to keep in the law the prison penalty of 1 to 3 years for the health professional who in conscience understands that he must help to respect the serious and free will of an incurable patient and with an unbearable suffering that his death is anticipated, in the name of the dignity that he has set himself. The 11 articles of this project could be reduced to one with the following content: « the criminalization of assisted death remains in force ». The CDS does not want to enshrine any rights, it just denies a right. This project is absolutely redundant and therefore superfluous and even demagogic. Article to article, the project before us is limited to saying that they are legal rights that are contained in the law. The informed consent, the vital will, the information about the state of health and the different therapeutic possibilities, the prohibition of therapeutic obstination, access to palliative care, nothing of this is new, and still well! What's shocking, what's not serious is that the CDS presents us with a project that invents what's invented and wants us to accept that it's a great invention. It's not! It's pure political tactics! We respond consistently to this political tactic because we do not vote against the rights that we defend and that they are already — and well! — in the law, and we will be consistent with this position in voting on this draft. But our final vote will be the result of all the debate that is being done, in the specialty, and of the purge of conservative ideological tricks and obsessions that abound in this project. To fulfill the supreme art of presenting a project on euthanasia with four pages of exhibition of motifs and 11 articles without ever using the word « euthanasia», the CDS makes two insinuations. The first is the recurring insinuation that the opponents of their crusade against assisted death accept that disease, disability, unemployment or suffering take value from the human being. This is written in the explanatory statement of your bill. Among its various self-convention mantras, the CDS has to proclaim itself a party to life, against which they so much like to designate by culture of death. This insinuation is an insult and to her I answer that what takes value from the human being is to prohibit another human being from choosing the content of his life to the end, what takes value from the human being is to be afraid of the self-determination of another human being. The second insinuation of the CDS is that access to palliative care is alternative to the choice of death anticipation decision. To defend it, the CDS does not hesitate to make law the prescription in a specific way, among many others, of treatment: palliative sedation. In this way, it should be noted that the CDS drops the mask: there is no debate in which the CDS does not cry that palliative care is not the sleep of the patient in suffering, but, after all, it comes to recognize that this sleeping and inherent decharacterization of the person is at the heart of palliative care. That they have confessed so clearly is, after all, the main merit of this project, but this recognition brings to the law what should never occur: the apology of prescription in a specific form of treatment. It was the most important thing for Parliament to approve the prescription of aspirin for headaches or eyelashes for ophthalmological inflammations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for our part, we want to reaffirm in this debate two fundamental things: the first is that we will be firm in our struggle for the affirmation of the principle of the self-determination of all people, including, at the head, the people in the end of life and that we will do everything to bring together strengths and opinions that are recognized in the priority to give respect for this fundamental principle. We will not yield in this fight for respect for the decision that only each and every one can make about the choices essential to his life to the end, and the best way to do it is to regulate that decision in law, ensuring that he is serious, he is free, conscious and used for his own purpose, which is the affirmation of each person's autonomy. The second reaffirmation we want to make is that, being firm in defending the freedom of each one to decide how he wants to live his death, we will always reject the false alternative between palliative care and decriminalization of assisted death. We will always be in the struggle for the universal provision of maximum quality palliative care by the National Health Service. Palliative care, perhaps even more than other health care, cannot be a business because it is a right, but we will never accept that it is an alibi to resign from solidarity with those who, in unbearable suffering, do not want their end of life to be that. For the Left Block, the decriminalization of assisted death is an imperative without conditions or compensation! [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u64	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u65	Mr. President, Mr. José Manuel Pureza, ensuring the right of end-of-life patients is the duty of the rule of law, it is a requirement of the Constitution, arising from international commitments of the WHO (World Health Organization ) and also from European human rights policies. So far we all agree. The project that the CDS has just submitted comes, therefore, to ask, as has already been said, what is being done. But this is the moment — and allow me, Mr José Manuel Pureza, to address Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto — to ask where she was when the CDS declined pensions, when it decreased the solidarity complement for the elderly, when it did not support the creation of new continuing care units that were ready to operate. at that time, not a word! [[CDS-PP protests.]] The CDS has hampered access to health care for many and many people. Defending the rights of end-of-life patients is what has always been done, what continues to be done, as well as relieving pain, creating and extending this network of continuous care and palliative care. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] This has never been at stake, all this is being done. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr José Manuel Pureza, if you do not mind, I am going back to Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto : there is a right that they do not speak in your project and that right has to do with dignity and respect for human suffering, with dignity and respect for the choices of each human being, is the right to self-determination. Medicine solves a lot of things, yes! Medicine relieves pain, yes! We have the responsibility to increase and extend continuous and palliative care units, yes, and we are doing so! But there is a limit that medicine does not solve: in certain circumstances, it cannot restore a life with autonomy, which, for many people, is the same as saying a life with dignity. Now, these people, in certain circumstances, in consciousness and on a repeated basis, may want to give up and, therefore, we cannot, we must not withdraw this right from them. in this line, Mr President, we accompany you in your concerns, because defending this right is to defend a life with dignity, not to respect that right is to feed a culture of taxation, and that is never to abdicate. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u66	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u67	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, the rights of people in the end of life is the subject we are discussing. In fact, we have seen this debate in the public square over the past few months and many have defended these rights in newspapers, but finally we have a concrete proposal to discuss here, so I congratulate the CDS and Mrs Galriza Neto on bringing us a concrete proposal on which we can talk. This debate that we are starting brings us something very positive and even rare in the Assembly of the Republic, which is a general consensus on the terms in which this bill is presented. I have not heard from the Left Block to the Democratic Social Party any opposition to the set of rights enshrined here. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, who has complied with the intervention he has made, said that this initiative, despite agreeing with all the proposals present, is merely seeking to deny access to assisted death. In addition to this being a subject that is not the one we are discussing here, consider that the set of laws that exist today guarantee that the Portuguese in the end of life are not suffering or wanting to deceive us, to ourselves, or is an act of profound ignorance, because in reality it does not work. The set of laws that exist today is not enough and the legislative reinforcement proposed here is precisely intended to guarantee a set of rights in order to ensure that those who need access to those rights have it. And we have failed as a society, do not deny it, sir. All of us, inside and outside Parliament, from palliative care to continued care, should do more, including those who were before but also those who are in power today. You, too, have co-responsibility. I am very curious to see your position in the next State budget on these matters. In conscience, I ask Mr. José Manuel Pureza : do you think that today's assisted death would be carried out in a full manner, in the sense that whoever is in suffering today had access to all possible and imaginary means so that he would not be suffering? This is the basic issue that, as a society, we have to question. The truth is this: we are not doing everything to avoid the suffering of those who are suffering in our country. Without solving the basic issues in our country, without ensuring the basic issues that prevent the suffering of our patients, we cannot have a serious discussion about other options other than those that are being discussed today. Therefore, it would be important to know what the position of the Left Block is and this will be translated through your vote. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u68	To reply, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions that have been put to me. I cannot help but make a repair: this insistence on the part of the CDS Parliamentary Group and now on the part of the PSD Parliamentary Group to throw on this side of Parliament the accusation of ignorance is proof of a spirit of arrogance and a spirit of intellectual superiority which I do not accept. I don't accept! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PAN.]] We are, as someone said, well in the face of a democratic confrontation from the point of view and this democratic confrontation is not compatible with any accusation of this nature in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] In reply to Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, to whom I thank once again for the question he raised, I should like to say that he belongs to a political family which, at some points, had the disappointment of participating in important struggles for opening horizons and opening rights, so we wanted to believe that, once again, it would be as important as those of the individual rights of people in Portugal. He knows as well as I do — and not the accusation of ignorance — or better than I, that there is no conquest of freedoms when all the necessary, possible and imaginary conditions are not met. That is why I want to tell you that the affirmation of each person's right to choose how he wants to live his death is something that must be done at all times, in parallel with the struggle for offering and providing palliative care.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u70	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u71	I will finish, Mr. President. These are not questions that are opposed — they will not bring us into this trap! — these are complementary issues. [[PSD protests.]] As long as you defend openness to the decriminalization of assisted death only when there is palliative care of universal supply, we say: these are complementary issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u72	That's not the question I asked! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u73	Mrs Elza Pais, I do not want to finish — and, Mr President, I am asking for minimal tolerance — without telling you that you are quite right. This debate cannot be polluted by any manifestation of tax culture, and that is exactly what distinguishes us. We are on the side of those who defend a culture of tolerance, and that is what is at stake, while others defend a culture of denial of tolerance and a culture of imposition. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u74	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela Guerra has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the CDS Parliamentary Group for bringing to this Parliament a bill on the rights of the sick in the end of life. This is a subject that is not easy and therefore little talked about in the political space and not always in the best way, but it is a subject of the greatest importance and perhaps one of the ones that requires the greatest humanity by whom it is addressed. After all, the progress of science and the tremendous evolution that our modern societies have achieved in recent centuries and, above all, in recent decades have not freed us, nor could they release us, from the inexorable law of life and death. The subject under discussion today must therefore be seriously discussed, without demagogy, without miraculous solutions, nor misleading facilities, without ideological prejudices instrumentalizing human beings, because what is at stake is too serious. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the proposing party recognises that its legislative initiative is not essentially innovative, it aims to boost a set of rights of the sick people at the end of their lives, which, in part, are already enshrined in national and international legal texts, as well as ethical standards relating to various health professions. But this feature of the bill does not diminish, in the perspective of the PSD, the objective that it essentially has in mind, which is to serve as a Magna Charter of the rights of sick people and in the end of life. We have sought, in our view, to bring together in a single diploma the whole of the rights of people who are in a situation of particular vulnerability and who therefore deserve the recognition of the legislator, the support and the comfort of society. It is true that some of the solutions proposed by the CDS may justify clarification of the personal scope of the beneficiaries of this law in accordance with Article 2. the, and its necessary articulation with the constant in Article 7. the question referred to in Article 3 ( 4 ). o. It will also be important to consider, with the greatest care, the terms, how and how any information about the life forecast of the sick person who occupies us here should be given and by whom. This means that, in such special cases, the form of communication is as important as the information itself, especially since it must be borne in mind that each person is a unique case and therefore lacks a specific approach that respects his/her idiosyncrasy and his/her particular condition. The training of health professionals in palliative care is thus an essential aspect that does not go unnoticed and that has not yet merited sufficient attention. In other words, the aspects of therapeutic decisions, as well as the solutions proposed in the event of discrepancy in wills and decisions between patients or their legal representatives and health professionals, will lack careful reflection, which should integrate knowledge of scientific schools and thinking. A clear example of what has just been stated can be found in the Opinion on Ethical Aspects of Health Care Relating to the End of Life, 1995, of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, which continues to provide an important basis for serious and reasoned reflection on the topic we are discussing today. in this opinion, which was rapporteur Dr. Daniel Serrão, supports — and I quote — the following: "When there is no reasonable hope of healing and the alleged improvements depend on heavy physical sacrifices, imposed on the patient by the treatment to be performed, the rules of follow-up medicine must prevail. The primary objective of this form of medical care is to achieve the greatest comfort and well-being, both physical and psychological and emotional, for the sick person in a stage of insecurity." Now, this ethical dimension cannot be diminished and much less forgotten when the sick person is at stake in the end of life. That said, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is now necessary to frame this legislative initiative in the broader context of the health care provided to the sick and in the end of life, and here we basically talk about palliative care. in this field, it is important to remember Law No 52 / 2012, which approved the Basics of Palliative Care Act, and also approved in the previous Legislation, Law No 25 / 2012, which regulates the early directives of will, known as the "law of the vital will". But in the previous legislation, the work done in favour of human dignity in situations of serious and irreversible disease was not limited to the approval of the aforementioned diplomas. In fact, the previous government created a national commission with the aim of coordinating the National Palliative Care Network in 2014, and also determined the establishment of intra-hospital support teams in palliative care in the hospitals of the SNS, having been created 27 of these teams in 2014. The previous governments also contracted more than 2100 beds in integrated continuous care and opened more than 200 beds in palliative care, creating also 11 Community Support Teams in Palliative Care ( ECSCP ). The aim was to provide support to about 60 000 patients directly and to over 180 000 people indirectly, and this is a task that is still being carried out. The fact is that the work done between 2011 and 2015 was recognized even by the current Minister of Health, when he said he had to recognize that, in the financial restriction framework, if there was an area where the previous government made a good effort was in this area, in continuous and palliative care. He said that the numbers showed the work and, therefore, recognized it. [[PSD applause.]] It was therefore hoped that the circumstances that the country had experienced in the recent past would still be overcome in 2015, that the current government would be more committed to the development of this palliative care network, continuing and reinforcing the efforts of the former Executives. It is true that the opening of the number of beds is still insufficient, especially if we bear in mind that many of them were already launched by the former Executive, particularly at the level of continuous care and pediatric palliatives, as is the case with the Kastelo Unit. In addition, intra-hospital support teams are still lacking in palliative care, as is the case with new beds and community palliative care teams. In fact, it is estimated that there are currently little more than 350 palliative care beds when more than 1000 would be needed, and the SNS only has to operate dozens of home palliative care teams, specifically 19. The insufficiency of this response becomes particularly evident when it is estimated that between us every year about 80 000 need this palliative care. in this context, we regret the reversal of the return of hospitals to the Mercy, since some of these units included types of convalescence and palliative care. The social sector could be an important partner of the State in the development of this network, which not only happened because of the political blindness of a radical left that sacrificed the patients at the altar of their ideological prejudice. There are, in fact, situations of lack and delays in payments to social sector entities, which have palliative care units and teams. But this blindness, which I have just mentioned, is also quite clear in the lead by the left gathered from draft resolution No 487 / XIII ( 2. a ), which the PSD presented a few months ago in this Chamber, whereby the Government was recommended to approve and implement a national action plan for active and positive ageing. Furthermore, it should be recalled here that Parliament approved Resolution No 129 / 2016 about a year ago, recommending to the Government the creation of the status of informal caregivers, aimed at protecting those who deal with chronic diseases in their homes. After a year, not only has the government not yet created this status, although the Minister has already promised it last year, as the situation gets worse if we bear in mind that Portugal has the highest rate of informal home care in Europe and one of the lowest rates of formal care coverage. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live today a unique time. to the enchanting discourse of the government succeeds the harsh reality; to the unfulfilled promises follow the strikes of doctors, nurses, nurses specialists, pharmacists, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and other professionals of the SNS ; to the tomorrows who sang - the increase of the claims of users of the SNS ; to the facilitating discourse occurs - a brutal increase of the debts of the SNS, which are already dangerously close to the 2000 million euros, with the inherent strangulation of the activity of hospitals and financial asphyxia of many hundreds of companies providing clinical and pharmaceutical material. The PSD has consistently and repeatedly warned about the problem of increasing debt in the SNS. We're seriously worried. Without sustainability and responsibility there is no public system that sustains and rights of citizens who resist, and without payments to our valuable firefighters for the transport of patients there is no operationality on the ground that resists. This is evidence that also applies to the SNS, either in its systemic aspect, or in the more concrete perspective of the rights of patients, which we are discussing today. It is not always easy to legislate, but it is not difficult for us today. For this reason, what really matters is that the Government will implement the proposals and recommendations of this House, ensuring that, today, basic and palliative care is in sufficient condition, because only then will the country begin to respect the dignity of the person at the end of life. Therefore, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, we agree when you say: "Human life has equal value in all circumstances and therefore deserves protection in all of them. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u76	Madam Member, the Bureau has a request for clarification. To that end, Mr Luís Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today presented a draft law on the definition of a set of rights of patients with second intentions, because what it presented was only the compilation of rights that already exist and objectives that are already being pursued by the government. There's no new right. In fact, we heard Mrs.Deputy of the CDS, Isabel Galriza Neto, and Mrs. Deputy of the PSD, Angela Guerra, who, not being able here to announce any new rights, just reminding that melody of someone who thought he had sent to paint the sky in blue to be original and then realized that after all, someone had already painted the sky of blue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD Member here wanted to confront us with the reality. For I also want to confront it with reality: we can, in this debate, ask the Government to do more for the sick people in a very serious state, in a terminal state, we can ask the Government to create a palliative care network with more vigor and more force, but we cannot say what Mrs. Angela Guerra just said, because, for example, in Faro, Mrs. Deputy, it was completed, paid and mounted a unit with 15 beds for palliative care at the Faro Hospital and her Government used that space for another service, dismounting those beds and making that unit not meet the initial goal. Therefore, I ask: which network supports the PSD? A public network, in the SNS, or a private palliative care network? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u78	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Angela War.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I have heard incredible things here in this debate,... [[Ah...!]] Ms. Angela Guerra ( PSD ). —... in particular that this bill, submitted by the CDS, is superfluous, is demagogic, and now Mr Luís Graça even said it was a melody. In fact, what we saw here during the debate was on the left to try to divert people's interest in this very important issue from their rights to end-of-life care to the subject of euthanasia. And see: that being your perspective, that being your right to think so, it is legitimate, it is the right, because of course, but if it is ours, it is demagogic or, then, it is all done and the previous government has done nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u80	So we couldn't understand you. But also those who won't be able to understand, at home, are the people. People at home just can't understand you. With regard to the question which you have put to me, I must say that I did not understand your question very well, because the PSD has evidence given in the implementation of the continuing care network and the palliative care network, moreover, of the rostrum, I quoted the numbers and the facts and you only have to consult the elements. Our position is clear; the position which is unclear, is seen on certain matters, in particular as regards the health sector, is yours, that of the PCP and that of the Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u81	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u82	And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just my perspective. In addition to the perspective of the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems, which Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto quoted earlier today, the truth is that there appeared a letter signed by 25 people from the left, among whom people known to VV. e.g. the President of the Association of Communist Renewal, Paulo Fidelgo, doctors, nurses, political and trade union leaders, former carpenters linked to the PCP, the Bloc and the PS, names such as Cyprian Justo, Jaime Mendes, João Proença, José Manuel Boavida, Mário Jorge Neves, Sérgio Esperanza, and many others that I could mention, who come to say such amazing things as this way of treating health and health care, such as this: «The health government is becoming a grain in the engineering of management. We are in the middle of the mandate and management has not reached health, an area that remained outside».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u83	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u84	« There is no health policy, only one-off measures and a clear backwardness is noted. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u85	They're just swallowing frogs!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u86	« The government has committed itself to four pillars and none has yet produced results with practical effects on the ground ». Or, finally, I confess that these two are fantastic: « The inefficiencies of the SNS have allowed to increase the private industry and the inequalities between the Portuguese people ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u87	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u88	How is it possible that the left parliament is boosting the private industry? And, moreover, these 25 personalities say, «that the Portuguese are becoming more ill to have a controlled deficit». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if I did not say that this was truly worrying, I would say, without a doubt, that it is a shame! You may be VV. For example, these are the opinions of these 25 personalities. They're not! These are also the views of the Portuguese Health Systems Observatory, which says that « the sector's under-financing persists, pushes citizens for increasing direct payments and those who cannot afford to postpone treatment, unfortunately, and a large majority of Portuguese do not have access to palliative care».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u90	And why would it be, I ask, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, to the honourable Members. PS Members? on Monday we were informed of the General State Account, which shows that the Government has asked Parliament to authorize it to spend EUR 10, EUR 48 million in the area of health and in the end it seems that it has spent less than EUR 331 million. And we thought: Is this the captivating? They're not! This is beyond captivating... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u91	It is that the Directorate-General for Budget comes to say that captivating is about 80 million and this General State Account says that the total captivating reaches a record value of 1000 million euros, a historical value says some of the PS,... [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u92	... which served the government to achieve the deficit of which you boast so much. I'm ashamed! And the left-wing companions who support you now come to say something unbelievable: you have abused a public account management tool to achieve the purposes of this propaganda. These seizures, see, adopted here in Parliament by the PS, the Bloc and the Greens, signed on the cross in this standard that allows this, allow now—and complains the Block, and much! — that the Minister of Finance has a discretionary power to change the funds allocated to the Ministry of Health without the House being duly voting on this. How is it possible, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Don't you have anything to say about this? Oh, my God! The continued care bill is very important. You should be ashamed and follow up on what the previous government has done. Do it there, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u93	The Bureau did not interrupt the honourable Member during the reply period because, looking at the time left, it hesitated to use this time properly still available. For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to the legislation in force, palliative care is defined as "active, coordinated and global care provided by specific units and teams, at home or at home, patients suffering from incurable or serious illness, at an advanced and progressive stage, as well as their families, with the main objective of promoting their well-being and quality of life through the prevention and relief of physical, psychological, social and spiritual suffering, based on early identification and strict treatment of pain and other physical symptoms, but also psychosocial and spiritual symptoms" and are intended for people with serious and/or advanced and progressive diseases. Palliative care, according to the World Health Organization, should, among other things, promote relief from pain and other disruptive symptoms, help the patient to live as actively as possible to death, help the family cope with the disease and accompany her in mourning. To pursue such desires, teamwork is essential to meet the needs of patients and their families. However, reality is far from consistent with what is stipulated. According to the data recently published by the Spring Report, the authorship of the Portuguese Health Systems Observatory, there is a small response, especially from the public response. In fact, the public response that the PSD did not want to give, and we know why, because the PSD did not invest in the public response to this level of care. According to the source mentioned above, the « national coverage rate of community support teams in palliative care was 21 %, » and there is still a huge asymmetry in the distribution of the territory, with districts in which there are no teams, as is the case in Aveiro, Braga, Castelo Branco, Guarda, Leiria, Portalegre, Santarém, Vila Real and Viseu. The asymmetric distribution also occurs at the level of palliative care units. In 2016 there were 26 palliative care units—it is true, more than in the time of the PSD government / CDS-PP—and were distributed in this way: North - 5 ; Centre - 5 ; Lisbon and Tejo Valley — 12 ; Alentejo - 3 and Algarve - 1, and also in this level of care there are districts that do not have any unit. The above report confirms what the PCP has been saying for a long time: there is a crying shortage of beds in the National Health Service. And it goes further saying: « a low rate of national and regional coverage of acute palliative care units, with total absence in university hospitals and almost total in district capital hospitals». In addition to bed insufficiency there is a « low number of professionals in all professional groups ». Finally, a worrying fact: « the time of post-admission survival is low, revealing that the patient is admitted very close or already in the stage of imminent death». This cannot be disconnected from the diagnosis described above, from the difficulties of access to health care in general and palliative care in particular, but, above all, from the policies followed by successive governments and, in particular, by PSD and CDS, which today once again wanted to whiten. in this debate, the CDS also attempted to circumvent its responsibilities in the lack and insufficiency of response in palliative care, which adds the fact that it has not even created the regulation of the law that sponsored it. In fact, it did not respond to the wish and question addressed to it by the CFP. We recall the low levels of investment and, above all, the cuts that were made in the National Health Service. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Palliative care, such as the other health care provision, for the CFP, is a responsibility of the State and should be ensured to all citizens who need it, including children and adolescents. The Government must strengthen the public investment and funding of the National Health Service. The CFP now defends, as in the past, the strengthening of public investment to expand the network of public palliative care equipment in the country, a network that responds to existing needs. Patients need answers, and for this reason public investment, which is contracted, which is created specialized teams, which strengthens the training of professionals, which ensures working conditions, that careers and workers' rights are respected. These are essential conditions for providing the health care that the population needs and ensuring compliance with the right to quality health. All of this is not covered by the initiative presented here by the CDS. Nor do we miss it, because public investment, the defense of public response and the National Health Service is something that is not compatible with CDS policies. However, the commitment of the CFP is the same, it is with the public response, it is with the strengthening of palliative care and the rights of patients, all of them, including chronic patients who need such support. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u95	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS bill has as its sole purpose to pass the message that the ongoing discussion on assisted death, which will take place in this secular Parliament, has expired. It is the old trick to counter the necessary palliative care and good quality to any other choice, as if an alternative were to be treated. I won't waste any more time with the fun maneuver.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u98	Yes, it is worth taking the portrait of the CDS from the preamble of its diploma, all of it the confession of a vision of society that does not have fit in the 21st century, which finds no comfort in our Constitution, happily has paternalism and therefore does not admit moral supremacys and state mistrusts regarding the personal and necessarily plural choices of each human being. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] That is how, even if these life choices did not fall into the CDS absolute values cartridge. The CDS insists on an absolute reading of human life, non-legal and, before, implicit delegation to the divine, so women who resort to IVG (voluntary termination of pregnancy) should continue to go to jail.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u99	Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u100	It is the obvious consequence of reading the constitutional values that forgets that none of them is absolute and that the dignity of the human person, especially in the context of his autonomy, as well as the right to the free development of personality, enable the legislator to find solutions for those who are at every moment and not, as the CDS proposes, for those who should be, in a kind of construction of a single behavioral model, of a citizen-type, which brings us to memory the worst of the darkness of the twentieth century. The « morale of the CDS », disguised as a (non) bill, is placed in the preamble, which is the preventive apology of refusal of an insubstituted reduction of the autonomous dignity of each person, which anticipates the trench of the good and the trench of the bad, such followers of the culture of death, that slogan. Thus, before there is the debate that the CDS wants to end, Manichaeism is drawn up, it is outlined in an expropriative reading of the Basic Law. This is why the CDS bill (not) serves. It is a sand for the eyes of the patients at the end of their lives, with a preamble that characterizes those who, unlike the CDS, have a word to say about the right to self-determination of the patients and respect for their will, values and decision, such as, and I quote the preamble, “reductors”, « archaics”, « poor» and « inhumane ». It's an insult, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] They are those who want to « eliminate people », to use the lexicon of the People's Party. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not have an official position on assisted death but will not steal from its discussion in a Parliament subject to an open constitution to the legislator's democratic choices. The issue is too serious, the end-of-life patients deserve too much respect to pretend that we are talking about the creation of rights, when what the CDS wants is to anticipate the conclusions of a delicate discussion that we will have to have. After all, CDS, why is an articulate with what is already in the law and is old in good clinical practice? Oh, my God! It's reading the preambular to understand the disembarkation. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u101	Mrs Fatima Ramos has signed up to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u102	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira, first of all, I would like to congratulate everyone. Today, we are witnessing a debate that should have been very serious, a debate in which what was being sought was to increase the protection of people in the end of life, to increase the protection of people and families who suffer. Instead of watching the measures and suggestions that improve the state of life of these people, we saw a true climate of guerrillas, guerrillas who spoke of the past, guerrillas who, instead of talking about the present and what we want for the future, hid behind what was done in the past. We know that, in the past, this matter has not been resolved, we know that we still have a great need for palliative care. We know that, but we are here to talk and think about the future and the present, and that is the challenge I leave you with, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, this has not been accomplished, but I hope that in the future it will be, indeed, because what we want is for people to have a good National Health Service, be careful, be calm and have hope. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u103	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u104	Mr. President, Mrs. Fatima Ramos, was the PSD itself, by the voice of Mrs. Angela Guerra, who sank the CDS, not saying a single word about the CDS bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u105	O Mrs. Member, leave the PSD there! Look at your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u106	It is precisely because you know that the CDS bill does not add a single right to what is in the law and medical practices. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Therefore, Mrs Fatima Ramos, where she sees guerrillas, we see authenticity, where she sees guerrillas, we see respect for the patients who are attending this debate and who know that, on this side, we do not stand still and that while some throw sand for the eyes with these rights, others explain what is truly behind the intention of the CDS. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u107	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u108	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u109	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u110	About...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u111	To request the distribution of a document, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u112	Please indicate which document is concerned, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u113	Mr President, I would like to ask that Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira be able to be distributed to Ms Isabel Alves the intervention that the PSD has just made in the rostrum, which I have here on paper, where there is an express reference to numbers and concrete proposals on articles of the bill that the CDS presents to us today, which, in fact, the PS, in its intervention, has not done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u114	The request is made, Mrs. Member. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, you now have the floor, to close the appreciation of Bill No. 565 / XIII ( 2. ( a) Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the rights of people in the end of life, density and strengthening will always be added value and, for us, this is necessary, it will never be less, it will never be redundant. The focus of our debate today is the answers to suffering. And despite the many recommendations that already exist on this matter, and we have also said so, in practice, they do not come true for thousands of Portuguese. That is why everything, because these people continue to suffer, what we do in this matter will never be superfluous or tactical. For us, the response to suffering is being cared for, and not being afraid of words or using euphemisms, it is not done by eliminating what suffers. In fact, that is what this is about. And it is true that we defend rights and values, it is true that we affirm, like many who think like us, that there is a right to life, that life is a good inviolable, but there is no right to be killed by another or a duty arising there, which will be the duty to kill. So what I would like to make clear here is that we do not steal from any debate, either this or the other. We can do it and we do it around values, thinking different. The gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the Socialist Party understand that one should respect the healthy divergence of ideas but then, because our ideas are different from yours, they already ridicule them, devalue them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u117	... speaking of « cross », « tricks », « falling from mask », « displanting », « arrogance » or « traps ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u119	Where we are, after all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Democracy, yes, but if we all think the same way? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u121	Let's be serious! Let's be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u123	Today we have done this debate, as others will do, in the certainty that we defend dignity, autonomy, freedom, self-determination, never doing so in opposition to the greater value of the defense of human life, pillar of human rights which, 150 years after the abolition of the death penalty, we are proud to continue to defend in this country. This is a matter that is not left or right; it requires courage and commitment; it requires that we mobilize our energy not by the trickling of the picards but by the greatness of the cause. And because it's not all right, we will continue to beat ourselves for the protection of people who suffer and are in the end of life. The CDS will not fail to give them a voice, because this debate is now in place. We are proud to have made these proposals, we are proud to have been in this debate. We will be in this, as in others, always in favor of the most vulnerable, saying that there are no unworthy lives, that all lives deserve protection. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no further requests for speech, so this item on our agenda is now closed. I draw the attention to the fact that this was a marking of the CDS, which therefore has the right to vote on its initiative, to vote on what will happen at the end of the proceedings, which is equivalent to saying after the following point. The next point is the assessment of the 2015 State General Account, which will be presented by Mr. Secretary of State for the Budget, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What brings us here today is the discussion of the 2015 General State Account. The assessment of the General State Account, which is held annually in this House, is part of the political oversight exercise to which governments have democratically to subject themselves. Today we are appreciating the 2015 General State Account, which is not largely the responsibility of the current government. The budget deficit in 2015 was above the initially planned 4, 4 % when a deficit of 2, 7 % was expected. As can be seen in the 2015 State General Account, and as is also seen in many other fiscal years, revenue and expenditure were well below the ceiling initially set in the State Budget. What is, to some extent, natural, because they are forecasts of expenditure, which are always done with the strike necessary to accommodate the circumstances of execution throughout the year. In particular in the case of central administration in 2015, the expenditure remained about EUR 1580 million below the budget. These deviations can be the result of either revenue not collected or administrative procedures, public procurement procedures, which have not been completed. The important thing is not only how much is spent on each area of governance but how it is spent. Thus, during the implementation of the budget, one of the central objectives of our work is to carry out a thorough analysis of expenditure, trying to ensure rationality and efficiency in the management of financial resources and its allocation to the areas considered priority. In conclusion, the Government expects from the analysis of the 2015 General Account, that the teachings of this Account should be taken into account in the preparation of future budgets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u126	Mrs. Members, the Bureau has not yet heard requests for consideration by the General Account of the State of 2015. [[Pause.]] Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u127	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: It is customary to affirm the need to analyze the provision of accounts, which is the General State Account, which is as close to reality as possible. 2015 is an exception, Mr. Secretary of State. It is an exception because it closes a decisive period that the country has lived, not because of itself, but because of previous socialist governments. Therefore, 2015 presents a balance that we can take pride in as Country. In 2015, the Government inherited a country under excessive deficit in financial ruin of the State, the financial system and the private sector. It is in the light of this framework that we are proud that this assessment can be said that the year 2015 has been marked by the continuation of the recovery of economic activity. Who says so, and writes, is not the PSD, is the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support, of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. Secretary of State, the same cannot be said of 2016, compared to 2015. Therefore, it is important that we are now discussing the 2015 General State Account when the 2016 General State Account has already been submitted, because we can make the comparison and, by the way, both have been prepared by the current government. At a time when they tell us that there is no more austerity or cuts, what do we verify? They now call themselves sectoral savings, a more elaborate way of trying to hide permanent captivating. The government does not want to tell us where, but it realizes where they are in civil protection, national security, health and education they are more than obvious. I repeat: in civil protection, national security, health and education, the sectoral savings, or permanent captivating, are very evident and the results also begin to be clear, hard, dramatic and violent to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u128	Well they can the Left Block and the PCP is indignant because this is crocodile tears from who approved and validated the Budgets for 2016 and 2017. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u129	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we were here to discuss the 2015 budget policy, obviously the Socialist Party's vote could only be unfavourable. It is because if we remember what was 2015, this was the year in which the pay cuts in public service were almost intact, the overtax of the IRS (tax on income of natural people) remained the cuts in social benefits and all the measures which, contrary to what Mr Crespo has just mentioned, basically realized an idea of expansionist austerity, which the PSD, during its governance, tried to print to budgetary policy. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court reversed this budgetary policy. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] But the General State Account is not the budgetary policy of the PSD Government / CDS-PP, it is an account, i.e. the record of revenue and expenditure and how they were executed. We are not going to anticipate the discussion of the General Account of the State of 2016, because what matters to the Portuguese, more than the captivations we will talk about tomorrow with all the will, is to know what happened to health, what happened to education and, indeed, in these items, the General Account of the State gives a good indicator of what was reality. The Socialist Party, in its assessment of the General State Account, obviously takes into account the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, and more than half of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors have been accepted in this General State Account, which is clearly positive. Unfortunately we do not have time to discuss in detail here, and we should have more time to discuss in detail these recommendations from the Court of Auditors. in the background, and we have already said so in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization ( COFMA ) but it has not been here in plenary, the Socialist Party believes that it should be given more attention to the General Account of the State, either at the headquarters of COFMA or at the headquarters of plenary, and will propose — indeed, it has already done so in the seat of COFMA — that there is greater capacity and greater rationality in the parliamentary assessment of the General Account of the State in this Parliament. I end only with this note: we have hundreds of pages, positively, in the opinions of the Court of Auditors and the Economic and Social Council. Within this House, we have sectoral opinions, which are repeated in the analysis of the macro scenario, in the analysis of policies, all committees send the opinions to COFMA, which, in turn, makes a new opinion. However, this does not seem to be anything efficient, nothing effective, and what is most important, which is to identify relevant recommendations from the Court of Auditors and see how they can be implemented, is not done. The Socialist Party is committed to improving the budgetary process and in this sense we will vote in favour of this General State Account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u131	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : It is a recurrent situation in the General Accounts of the State that the Court of Auditors makes recommendations in order to correct the problems and successive governments do not implement these recommendations, or implement them partially and late. For example, the previous PSD Government / CDS-PP does not apply the tax benefit recommendations, presenting in successive General Accounts of the State incorrect or incomplete data, where a gross omission, denounced by the Court of Auditors, of more than EUR 1 billion of tax benefits to large companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u133	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u134	This situation of disregard of the Court of Auditors' recommendations should be overcome. The current Government must make an effort to implement all the recommendations, presenting General Accounts of the State that accurately translate the reality of public accounts. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In 2015 the former PSD Government / CDS-PP continued its policy of exploitation and impoverishment, of liquidation of labour and social rights, of confiscation of workers' incomes, of deepening the offensive against the social functions of the State, of fiscal promotion of large capital at the expense of workers, reformed and micro and small entrepreneurs, and of selling to the destruction of strategic public enterprises for national development. But since 2015 was a year of legislative elections, the previous PSD/CDS-PP government also developed an intense campaign of mystery and lie, designed to hide the dramatic consequences of its policy for workers and the people. It was the mistification of the clean output of the troika program, hiding from the Portuguese the real problems of the banking system; it was the lie of the return of the overtax of IRS, a promise that disappeared the day after the elections; it was still the lie that the country was better, even when the lives of the Portuguese were worse. But the Portuguese didn't let themselves be deceived by these lies and mistifications... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... and, on October 4, 2015, they said no to the policy of exploitation and impoverishment of PSD and CDS and expressed their desire for change. Despite the desperate attempt by the former President of the Republic to impose a PSD/CDS-PP government, in the wake of popular will, it was possible, with the decisive contribution of the CFP, to start a new stage in national political life and adopt a set of measures that have responded to some of the most urgent problems of the workers and the people. We value the measures for the replacement of rights and incomes adopted in the last year and a half, but we also point to its limited and insufficient character. In order not to undermine the legitimate expectations of workers and the people, created with the defeat and removal of the PSD/CDS-PP government, it is imperative to continue and deepen these measures of valorisation of rights and incomes, a path that calls for rupture with the interests of monopolistic capital and with submission to the European Union's taxes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u135	The Bureau does not know whether to speak to Mrs Cecilia Meireles or to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, or vice versa, or neither to one or the other. Do you want to leave, ladies and gentlemen, or do you want to leave Mesa? Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u136	Mr. President, if the Left Block is embarrassed by the latest budgetary options you've made, what I understand... [[PSD laughter.]] ...and even, charitablely, I'm going to help.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u137	It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u138	There is often a difference between our discussion of the General State Account and the period in which we are. This year is no exception. I would also like to say, as a personal position, that Parliament actually spends a lot of time drawing up reports with very little practical effectiveness and, therefore, I think this should be reconsidered, until this account is one of the times in which we have made more reports, with very little consequences. With regard to the 2015 State General Account, and it is still curious to be discussing the 2015 Account when we have known recently the 2016 Account, this is in fact the Account of a government and several Budgets that received a deficit of more than 11 % and left a deficit of 3 % of GDP without the effect of BANIF. It is indeed the Account of the first year which was known after the adjustment programme, without the troika, and in which many said that the economy grew little, but still grew more than it would grow the following year. But it is also the Account of a year in which, contrary to what we know now that happened in 2016, there were two different things, the first being the absence of captivations of almost EUR 1000 million, in a true parallel and hidden budget. It is that, basically, a budget is discussed here, for several days, with a complete process in the discussion in the field of specialty, and then, in practice, something quite different happens. On the other hand, this Account has authors and it is important that we say so. It's just that what I've been watching yesterday, with the PCP and the Block pretending to be a huge surprise with the captivating, I say: Mrs. Members, the accounts are the result of the budgets and the budgets are the result of what is approved. Captives, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are the result of the approval and of the votes that they make here in the plenary. As far as the article on captivity is concerned, the Bloc voted in favour and, therefore, it can now say that it did not know anything and that it is very surprised but, Mr President, it is very surprising. Members, these captivations, which we know of 2016, of almost EUR 1000 million, have authors. And the authors are not only those who are sitting there, of the Socialist Party,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... are also those who are sitting there, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens. There are authors for these cuts and there are authors for the degradation of the public services they have provoked and these authors are the ones who are sitting there. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u139	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the analysis of the general accounts of the State of the last years and also of 2015, which closes a period of austerity, shows us and allows us to conclude that ironically the Government that has made the most budgetary control and that has been most obsessed with controlling the deficit was the one that most often failed its forecasts. It has consistently failed to predict budgetary consolidation, economic growth, unemployment, revenue and expenditure. [[Protests by PSD MP José Pedro Aguiar Branco.]] It doesn't exist, sirs. Members, above all, there is no comparison in recent times for the radicalism of budgetary choices in the period ended in 2015, i.e. for the brutal increase in taxes, for the overtax, for the steps of IRS, for the increase in VAT of restoration and electricity, for wage cuts, for the permanent attacks on the Constitution, for cuts without comparison in public services — EUR 500 million accumulated in education, EUR 1000 million in health only in 2013, in what preserves democracy and the country most needed at the time of the crisis. [[Protests by PSD MP José Pedro Aguiar Branco.]] And all of this happened with little rigour in the allocation of tax benefits and while trying to reduce taxes on large companies. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Today it is simpler—because we have the accounts—look back and see how counterproductive this policy was. Every time hundreds of millions of euros were cut in public expenditure or taxes increased in hundreds of millions of euros, only a small part of this adjustment was that it reached the deficit, because everything else was lost for the recession, everything else was lost for unemployment, everything was lost for emigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u141	You have to change your chip!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u142	The truth is that austerity was much more the cause of the prolongation of the crisis in Portugal than the consequence of the same crisis. The country will need years to recover the lost investment, to recover the people who have left, to recover the degradation of public services. And all this without being able to solve other problems in the country. The truth is, the bank's problem has not been solved. on the contrary, in the name of the deficit, an electoral agenda and a clean exit propaganda, pushed the real problem of the country, which was its banking system, under the carpet, leaving the problems for those who would come later.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u143	You have to change your chip!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u144	This without the slightest concern about what the future would be or what the public accounts would be about in the future. It is true that budgetary policy today is not perfect, it has faults and that much will have to be done to improve it, but the country has been able to break up with self-punishing austerity. Mrs. Members, the truth is that the economic and social results are far from the destruction that has been caused by the budgetary choices of PSD and CDS. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable. when we discussed today the 2015 State General Account, I think it would be an opportunity for Mrs. Members of the PSD and CDS-PP, for once and finally, assume that their budgetary choices... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u145	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u146	I will finish, Mr. President. I was saying, it would be an opportunity for the gentlemen. PSD and CDS members assumed that their budgetary choices destroyed the country's economy, destroyed social rights, but did not solve any of the structural problems that Portugal was facing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u147	Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, by 2015, we had a drastic cut in expenditure, a brutal increase in taxes, the continuation of the excessive deficit procedure and the sanctions process. From 2016 onwards, we left the Excessive deficit procedure, there was a drop in the tax burden and the start of strengthening public agencies and services, even excluding staff costs. One example: there were no captives in the SNS, nor in schools, health and education increased 4 % and expenditure 3 % this year, contrary to what happened in the last few years in which the opposite happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u149	Although you have entered to intervene after you have given the floor to Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor Mr. Cristovão Crespo, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, very strange of his intervention, when it was the Member himself who wrote—he did not say, he wrote—that, if the Court of Auditors did not define the rules for courts in public service, there was no possibility of anyone who could play the role of Minister of Finance content. Therefore, we are very surprised at your intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira. But it also highlights another important aspect of Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Both Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira and Mr. Paulo Sá came to talk about the issue of recommendations, which are important. But they fled to the results! Reporting means results! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the 2016 State General Account that gives us results! Give us the results of the economy in 2015 and 2016, by the way, much better in 2015 than in 2016. Gives us results on exports that accelerated in 2015 and slowed down in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u152	It gives us results in relation to the debt of the Public Administration in Maastricht, with less than 1, 2 percentage points in debt, a decrease, which amounted to 129 % of GDP, rising again in 2016 to 130, 4 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u154	There was therefore an increase of 1, 4 percentage points.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u155	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to run away to account. It is very clear today, comparing with what was in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u157	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u158	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is also important to quote what the INE ( National Institute of Statistics) wrote. INE says PSD reforms have reduced social exclusion...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u159	Mr. Deputies, you really have to finish! I ask you to take seriously what the Bureau is telling you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u160	... and increased income since 2013. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-06.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate, and there is now a vote. First, however, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 204 presences, to which are added those of Deputies Helena Roseta and Jorge Gouveia, PS, Pedro Pinto, PSD, and Cecilia Meireles, CDS-PP, making 208 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We then generally vote for Bill No. 565 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rights of people in the end of life ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We are thus at the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda : The first item is an up-to-date discussion under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the lack of transparency in the cuts of expenditure in public services. Second, Law No 91 / XIII ( 2 ) will be considered. ( a ) — establishes the programme for the extraordinary regularisation of precarious links. Thirdly, Bill No 80 / XIII ( 2 ) will be approved. ( a ) — Amend the Single Circulation Tax Code, the Municipal Property Tax Code and extend the validity of the tax benefits relating to scientific mecenate. Fourthly, we will appreciate Bill No 76 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Alter the Law on the Basics of Public Land Policy, Land Planning and Urbanism. Fifthly, the debate shall be held with the presence of the Government, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( a ) and ( b ). the Act No 43 / 2006 of 25 August with the amendments introduced by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May on the monitoring, assessment and pronunciation of Portuguese participation in the construction process of the European Union, together with the discussion of draft resolution No 963 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2016 ( Commission on European Affairs ). of point six are the votes at the end of the debate. I wish you all a good afternoon and until tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 28 minutes.]]
