ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda is the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 903 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation, the debate on the implementation of the leave without extraordinary remuneration and the evaluation and in-depth evaluation of the Cheque-Training measure ( CDS-PP ), 904 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, within the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, a debate with a view to recognizing and implementing the right to lay-off of workers and to include new situations which may be admissible for the exercise of telework, as well as regulating the exercise of telework in public service ( CDS-PP ) and 905 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, at the social level, a debate with a view to improving collective bargaining, in particular to resume the 2014 conciliation agreement providing for the reduction of expiry and survival of collective labour contracts ( CDS-PP ). To present these draft resolutions, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the duty of the policy and the Assembly of the Republic to improve, as far as possible, the policies viable for people in particular and it is in this context, and not in another context, that the subjects of labour legislation should be considered and discussed. in the CDS, we pay attention to the world of work and we defend that this is done in a balanced and modern way, reconciling the desire for investment attraction, caressing the purpose of those who risk their heritage in projects that give jobs and share wealth, but not neglecting what are the real aspirations of improving working conditions, the qualification of workers and the reconciliation of their professional life with their family life. Meeting last May, on parliamentary days, we chose this as one of the priority themes and, after that, we went to the field: we talked to workers and their representatives, visited companies and entrepreneurs, heard complaints and shared aspirations. What we present today to this House is intended to innovate, humanize and reform. Innovation requires attention to the reality and to the new challenges that we face, and the effort that is required is to meet the aspirations of concrete people. We know that the world of work has evolved very rapidly. On the one hand, professional careers are longer, as a result of workers' longevity and the postponement of reforms, but the idea of a job for life is also increasingly passed, for which several institutions, such as the International Labour Organization, have called attention. Many workers therefore feel the need to rethink their careers within organizations and within the framework of the evaluation of their careers in the future. They wish to gain new skills and deepen their training. This effort may even require a period of one semester or one year for this purpose. The system of unpaid leave has not had much application, because we know that it becomes very difficult for workers to stop work without taking up income. That is why we put forward this proposal so that it is studied and implemented by the Government. By means of a scheme in which the company hires a subsidized worker to replace the worker who asks for the licence, at the same time we are able to combat unemployment, grant a financial incentive to the worker who makes the training, because it is still taking the amount of the unemployment allowance of the worker who replaces it, and does not call into question an increase in expenditure on social security. It's a good proposal, it's a serious proposal, it's a consistent proposal. It will therefore be up to this House to put it down and we hope it can be approved, because it certainly goes against the workers, meets the needs of companies and does not question the interests and accounts of social security. We propose that this incentive join the Cheque-Training, which, with creativity and standing alongside the workers, respond to problems of people in particular with viable solutions. in fact, the Cheque-Formation was introduced into our system in the previous government, but we know that there is still much way to go because many more workers will want to adopt it. They are today looking for the training and the study plan that interests them the most. Therefore, if we deepen freedom of choice in this area too, we will be sure to find innovative solutions that are imposed by reality. But the CDS is also attentive to new challenges resulting from the use of new technologies. The requirement to always be online, to always be on-line, with the use of computer platforms, leads to the work being often extended beyond the reasonable, taking time that should be for rest, times that should be for the worker, times that should be for his family. It is therefore necessary to enshrine the right to disconnect, which is already enshrined in some of the regulations and which makes every sense that is also introduced into our order. And if it is true that this matter is of the greatest importance and responds to a need for humanism, it cannot be opposed to another measure that we, in the CDS, have already promoted in the past, and in which we insist, which is the use and use of telework. If created under strict conditions, if created with a clear legal framework in which there is no abuse, telework actually allows the worker to reconcile more efficiently his/her professional life and time for his/her family, not often requiring him/her to travel to the company. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u3	These are approaches like those that introduce a humanism that is within the reach of all of us, of all parties, if we have the ability not to see politics in a sectarian way and, above all, we do not flood reality with ideologies that help nothing and do not favor workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But if it is necessary to innovate, if it is necessary to deepen humanism, it is also necessary to reform. in recent times, the debate we have had in the Assembly of the Republic and within the majority that this government supports is in the past, is whether we are going back in time of pre-2009 or pre-2012. We need to get through this conversation, a conversation that no one else understands out there. The country is not in the past and will not be in the present either, because, if it is not in the future, the present will be passed and will not be of interest to the Portuguese. For this reason, the CDS presents a proposal on collective bargaining that meets a concrete assessment, which meets what reality tells us. And if it is true today that the measures introduced on collective bargaining are contributing — and much — to the dynamism of this mechanism, if it is true that, between 2014 and 2015, there is an increase, by more than 100 %, of the number of workers covered by collective contracts, if between 2015 and 2016, this increase was 50% and if yesterday the Minister Vieira da Silva said that this year this increase is 65 %, what we have to do is not think whether we keep the framework of the past, but rather take a step forward and deepen these reforms, so that these increases can be multiplied and we can serve collective bargaining and the future of work dynamism. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the duty of the policy to improve, as far as possible, the policies that are viable for people in particular. That's what the CDS wants, that's what the CDS proposes. We hope this House will be able to follow us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u4	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to request clarification, having Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia informed the Bureau that he would respond to the two-member groups. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u5	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, says the popular saying that « From Spain, neither wind nor marriage». However, from the agenda of the CDS on labour, we can say that "no good proposal, no good wager". This for the rights of workers, of course, is from the perspective that we are discussing here. And we don't claim this by any embarrassment with the CDS,... [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u6	... but because in fact this is the foundation and practice of the CDS. The difference is that if we were to say this out of concern, and if we were to discuss and evaluate the proposals, we could conclude that these proposals will be translated into improving living conditions. Unfortunately, no. And we affirm that on the part of the CDS, in labour matters, « neither good proposal nor good wager », taking into account the practice and heritage of the CDS. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the practice and heritage of the CDS in relation to workers' rights, has only two expressions: liquidation and destruction. The CDS has never contributed to measures to strengthen workers' rights. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It was in 2004 that by the hand of a PSD Government and the CDS, the expiry of the collective contract was introduced in the Labour Code. In 2004, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! We well know that, at that time, the Deputy Assumption Cristals didn't even walk here on CDS, but the CDS was already making its way, a way to introduce expiry into collective bargaining. And it wasn't by chance, nor was it by embarrassment. It was because the CDS and PSD, in 2004, when they introduced expiry into collective bargaining, they knew who they were defending and who they were attacking. That's why this CDS schedule is very symptomatic of what the CDS wants for the country. It is that in 2012 a PSD and CDS government deepened, and much, the very serious standards of the 2009 Labour Code. And so it was because he facilitated and embarrassed the dismissals; so it was because he generalized the precariousness; so it was because he imposed cuts on the payment of extraordinary work; so it was because he stole a week's holiday to the workers, between four holidays and three days' vacation. Tell me, then, honourable Member: where is this good for workers' rights? That is why what we are discussing today is more than that. The honourable Member spoke slowly, and well, so that we could really understand what is being discussed here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u7	But he's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u8	in fact, what is being discussed here today is nothing new. It is just that, Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, what the CDS proposes today is so much more to insist on a pilgrimage idea that a young person, simply because he is young in search of a first job, should be entitled to precariousness through the Cheque-Training.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u9	I should have spoken even more slowly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u10	Now, Mr President, this is unacceptable because, if you respond to a permanent need, there must be an effective contract. It proposes the CDS, in another pilgrimage idea, which is also nothing new, that the money of workers' discounts be transferred directly through social security and the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formation Professional), for companies to pay what is an obligation of them. Vocational training is a right of workers and a responsibility of companies. Therefore, this is a misuse of social security money and worker discounts. But the CDS proposes something else, Mr. It proposes telework, which Mr Mota Soares, then Minister of Labour, said was an opportunity for women. In fact, telework was not an opportunity for workers, it was in particular an opportunity for women, who were well placed in the home and away from the labour market. Mr President, we reject this idea at all, because this represents a step back and not an advance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u11	Mrs. Deputy, it's been over four minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u12	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Filipe Anacoreta that the CFP believes that there are matters which the Assembly of the Republic has all the legitimacy to decide. Social dialogue must be heard, but the political decision lies with the Assembly of the Republic, it is up to the parliamentary groups represented here. What the country really needs is the opposite of everything the CDS proposes: it is employment with rights, it is reducing working hours, it is the end of the lapse of collective bargaining and the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle. But in these matters, as in others, we know that we cannot count on the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u13	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, today we discuss, by agenda of the CDS, three draft resolutions on different issues: one on the implementation of the leave without extraordinary remuneration and the evaluation of the Cheque-Training, another on the right to disconnect workers and to the inclusion of new situations for the exercise of telework and one third, to improve collective bargaining, which, in the perspective of the CDS, cannot in any way be devalued. Despite the diversity of matters, initiatives have a common purpose, which is to recommend to the Government that, in the context of social dialogue, start the debate on these matters, i.e. what the CDS proposes to us is that the Assembly of the Republic recommends to the Government that it promote the debate in the social dialogue on matters in which this House is in perfect condition to decide. What we think is that there is an attempt to reverse the premises, not to say an attempt to adulterate the rules of the democratic game. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u15	That's coming from The Greens! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u16	It seems until this House, now, can only legislate after the debate in social consultation. But, Mr President, any effort to replace this House with social consultation, in addition to having no constitutional culture, is unacceptable to all titles. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Social consultation should be heard, yes, but the decision lies with the Assembly of the Republic. The honourable Member says that collective bargaining cannot, in any case, be devalued, and I stress the expression « in any case». And I put it up to her, why? Because, of course, it is not new to anyone who had a problem with our constitution in terms of collective bargaining. In fact, contrary to what our Constitution establishes, the former Government promoted the appearance of empty contracts, when what it should have done, in constitutional terms, was to ensure the effectiveness of the rules of collective bargaining. More: the previous Government has also made an effort to amend, by legislation, the rules freely agreed by the parties in the context of collective bargaining. Today, the CDS says that collective bargaining cannot, in any case, be devalued, but what is true is that, with the help of the CDS-PP, the changes that labour law has suffered in recent years have brought very negative elements to those who work and have come to accentuate imbalance in labour relations, with serious damage, of course, to those who work. In fact, the 2003 Labour Code has weakened fundamental aspects of the right to collective bargaining, especially with the introduction of the expiry of collective agreements, but also with the faculty of collective conventions, may lay down less favourable rules than those laid down in the law, thus jeopardizing the principle of more favourable treatment for workers and contrary to the very nature of collective labour agreements. As if that were not enough, revisions to the Labour Code were aggravated, in particular 2014, when the government that the CDS was part of, in addition to other attacks to which it was working, decided to facilitate dismissal and make the compensation cheaper in case of dismissal. Mr President, we believe that it is fair — and therefore it is necessary — to restore some balance in labour relations, and it is precisely on this subject that our questions are raised. It was important to know what the CDS-PP's openness or willingness to restore a minimum balance in working relationships and return some dignity to those who work. However, since the CDS today says that collective bargaining cannot be devalued in any case — as is also stated in the draft resolution — I believe it would be interesting to know whether we can count on the CDS-PP in terms of collective bargaining, in particular as regards the expiry of collective labour conventions, their automatic renewal and, above all, the principle of the most favourable treatment for workers. I think it was important to know what we can count on with the CDS on this matter, because, as the people say, "when alms is a lot, the poor distrust" and, when we see the CDS concerned about collective bargaining, especially looking at its past, we have more reasons than enough and objectives to distrust this CDS claim. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u17	What poverty of spirit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u18	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Rita Rato and Mr José Luís Ferreira for their questions. I note some cleavages within the coalition — which has nothing wrong, seems to be quite healthy enough — because, in fact, the CFP says that our proposals no longer do but question the rights of workers and Mr. José Luís Ferreira says, on the contrary, that we are giving great alms.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u20	They're, they're, they're, they're,
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u21	The part of the alms was ironic!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u22	Therefore, if alms is great, it is because it is not against the workers and it is because, after all, it is noted that, in fact, the CDS is presenting proposals that are going against the workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in fact, the CFP cannot hide its discomfort because it is against these proposals — and that is what needs to be emphasized — because what the CFP is telling us, with the intervention that Mrs Deputy has made, is that it is against the existence of licences for the qualification of workers, licences for workers to be able to stop their work, to deepen their training and to have a financial incentive to do so. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs Rita Rato is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u23	As far as telework for women is concerned, yes, I am against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u24	Who are you against? It is against the workers, it is against the concrete people who can benefit from this proposal. PCP's against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u25	It's true! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u26	And you know why you're against it, Mrs. Rita Rato? The honourable Member said that I spoke very slowly, trying to be understood, but I already realized that, for the honourable Member to understand me, it is not enough to speak slowly, it is necessary to speak from the back forward, because the honourable Member is just looking back, she is always looking at the past. But we know where his economic model led us, we know where they took, not only in Portugal, but in the world, the collectivisation of goods and the lack of guarantee of rights—... [[PCP protests.]] ...the rights which Mrs. Deputies says she guarantees when, in fact, she does not guarantee anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u27	You are already running away from the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u28	What guarantees the interests of workers, what guarantees the rights of workers... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mrs. Deputy knows this and talks about it because you don't want to hear it, it bothers you to hear it. What guarantees the right of workers is to look at reality, to look at the needs of individuals, concrete workers, and to find viable solutions. And that's what the CDS is doing. I propose what?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u29	I'm not proposing anything, actually!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u30	I propose that there be financial incentives for anyone who wishes to draw an unpaid leave, for example, by proposing the right to lay-off, for which the honourable Member has gone off. And why did he step aside? Because it bothers you to recognize that the CDS has made a proposal that goes against the workers and the interests of the workers. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Madam Member, we have already realized — and the Portuguese are increasingly aware — that we cannot expect much from the CFP, we cannot expect attention to people's specific problems. The only thing we can expect from the CFP is an ideological cassette which may comfort them in their effort of coherence, but which does not tell the Portuguese, does not say anything to the workers and does not contribute at all to the debate, which is imposed on the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u31	Now the CDS is talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u32	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I wanted to say that I noticed that I said these proposals deserve to be considered - I saw them even as a smola, as I said - which means that you really understood them in the sense that they are going: actually, they are going to meet the workers, but not as a smola, because workers do not need alms,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u33	Now it's no longer a big smolice!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u34	... they need, yes, to meet their needs and find innovative solutions that respond precisely to what is important, which is the dynamism of the labour market. The honourable Member has talked about collective bargaining and it is hard to say that what he criticized in the legislation is what he is contributing to the dynamism of collective bargaining. Minister Vieira da Silva himself said yesterday that if the increase in the number of workers covered by collective contracts was 100 % in 2014 and 2015, 50 % in 2015 by 2016 and is already 65 % by this time of year, this means that the legislation that was implemented is contributing to the dynamism of collective bargaining. We, as honourable Members, must be aware of this, we must evaluate the situation and be consistent, taking more steps forward — taking more steps forward. This is what the CDS proposes and we hope to be able to count on the benches that are often at odds with us, but which recognize when the CDS presents solutions that go to the workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u35	Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, we will move on to the second block of requests for clarification. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Oliveira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that the CDS brings us here today refers us to matters that actually move with all the Portuguese who are active and who want to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u38	But when we talk about these matters, there is a widespread amnesia on the side of the government and the benches that support it — or then an attempt to hide much evidence. It is true that we are living a good time in the labour market. But what work was done for these results to happen?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u39	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u40	Two months ago they said the devil was coming...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u41	We have to be realistic, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The previous government, in the face of an unprecedented crisis and with the signing of the Socialist Party, has done a serious and responsible work on changes in labour law and the flexibility of the labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u43	We cannot ignore what has been done, we cannot simply ignore such important facts that influence the results that are taking place, such as the reduction in the unemployment rate. But we must continue to pay attention to problem solving, such as high youth unemployment and long-term unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u44	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u45	Therefore, the PSD will continue to fight so that all Portuguese have conditions for decent work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u47	The PSD will continue with this position, always available for serious debate, in order to improve and achieve a balance between workers' rights and the development of enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u49	As I have already said, there will still be much to do, but there is a big difference between the PSD and the CDS and the power bow benches. If, on the one hand, the Socialist Party is conditioned by the benches on the left and tries to ignore the obvious, on the other hand, the PCP and the Left Block are stuck to an ideological argument. The world has changed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u50	Well remembered! He's always changing, always changing! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u51	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you need to calm down. I know they don't want to hear us, but this is democracy. [[PSD applause.]] There are increasingly new technologies, we are increasingly in a vortex of technical and technological developments that brings new challenges and the PSD does not give up these new realities. We want a country with innovative and competitive companies and we want workers to see their protected rights, have training and differentiation and feel motivated and realized. in this context, the measures taken by the PSD/CDS Government are now bearing fruit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u52	Really! Is that what you're
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u53	Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, we know that in this battle we can count on the CDS, but I ask: how does it assess the purposes of the reversal of labour laws made by the previous government, PSD / CDS, what good results are they giving? I also ask, how does it assess the ambiguous position that the PS and the government have been showing, while seeking to be and not be with their radical left-wing partners in relation to labour laws? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u54	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, first of all, would like to thank the CDS for this opportunity to have another debate in the Assembly of the Republic on labour issues, precisely because the Block on the Left considers that labour issues and labour changes need to be discussed here in Parliament. however, what the CDS presents to us today is actually a shot of dry powder. Why? in the explanatory statement of each of the three draft resolutions, we are given some of the proposals or ideas that the CDS will have for solving certain problems – and we will go there – but the consequence of these explanatory statements is null. The only consequence the CDS takes is that Parliament does not have the legitimacy to decide on collective bargaining or telework, it only has the legitimacy to say to the social consultation which it then debates for Parliament to ratify or not. in recent times, I am afraid we are used to hearing from the right that Parliament is the resonance box of social consultation and, in this context, the position of the Left Block is clear: Parliament is the place par excellence to debate and legislate the labour issues and also the matters in question here. On the CDS project on collective bargaining, he spoke about modernising printed by changes made during the PSD/CDS government. I don't know what the concept of modernization the CDS has, but what happened to the changes made in the previous government was a complete destruction of collective labour relations, a reduction in the number of workers covered by collective bargaining. On the other hand, it is important to know how the CDS is in this debate, whether it is serious or not, when a few weeks ago it voted against, in particular, Left Block projects that have set out essential principles for relaunching collective bargaining. You voted against, Mr President, and what, after all, is the seriousness with which the CDS is in these debates, particularly on labour issues? in fact, these are not concrete proposals. He spoke on concrete proposals, but they are not. They are only proposals to say « we even have some ideas, but we do not want them to be discussed here and we do not want them to be voted on». That, Mr President, is not to have a serious debate on labour issues. If they want a serious debate, we have to debate and vote here, and the CDS has voted against all the amendments that have been proposed and which favour workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u56	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u57	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Members Ana Oliveira and Isabel Pires for their questions. I begin by replying to Mrs Isabel Pires. Madam Member, I have heard serious talk, I have heard of shots of dry powder and I confess, with all the respect I have for you — which is a lot — that I have had difficulty not laughing. Dry powder shots? Seriously? Yesterday, we discussed a proposal from the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u58	Last night!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u59	... and today, again, what we have seen on the part of the Socialist Party is silence and a government that is based on the support, in particular, of the Left Block, which is pleased to present proposals here and to make a lot of noise, but, Madam Member, as a result of the policy of the Left Block I do not see any. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u60	Don't you? Oh, my God! The minimum wage, for example!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u61	Therefore, shots of dry powder, little seriousness and no political consequences I only see on the side of the Left Block and the PCP, which make a lot of noise and, as the other says, « they speak, they speak, they speak, they do nothing».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u62	Mr. Deputy is very funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u63	That is what we have seen from the Left Block and that is what has basically been the debate that the Left Block here has brought us. [[Protests from the Member of the Left Block Isabel Pires.]] Madam Member, I have also noticed that you have made no reference to the right to lay-off by the workers, to the possibility that there will be unpaid leave with financial incentive.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u64	Here we go!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u65	... and what I expect from the Left Block, since it says it is for the workers, is that it is consistent with what it says and that it is next to whoever submits proposals, regardless of how often they agree or disagree. In replying now to Mrs Ana Oliveira, I must say that you have every reason to be what you have said. in fact, the Left Block and the PCP have not contributed to a debate other than to talk about the past, the regression. They just want to argue if it's more or if it's less past. And the PS is very upset about this and little talks about the debates, which are added to this. We see more Members looking down and to the screen than watching the discussion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u66	The honourable Member is very short of attention!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u67	...because, in fact, they don't really like anything about this discussion. The PS's gone, and that's what the country's problem is. On labour issues, the Socialist Party lost its opinion, disappeared and not only stops in the past as it fears the present and is totally unable to look forward. That is the drama of our country and the workers. [[PS protests.]] The PS had only one solution: to say whether it is on the side of whoever wants the past or on the side of who is discussing the problems of the future, to look at the country we want to build. The PS, as it is so attached, by sight, to the government and to power,... [[PS protests.]] ... it is more uncomfortable, it does not want to compromise the majority who supports it, who speaks but is inconsequential, but also does not want to recognize the truth and the future in the proposals which, in particular, the CDS once again presents and which are going to meet the interests of the country and the workers. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u68	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The day we make this debate is the same when a study has been revealed that addresses the discrepancy between the obvious improvement of employment indicators in Portugal and the objective conditions on which the new contracts are located, the people who are now hired. According to the study conducted by the Centre for Social Studies and which was released today, of the total contracts concluded since November 2013 and registered in the Labour Compensation Fund and the Labour Compensation Guarantee Fund, 83 % correspond to precarious contracts. That is to say, there was a policy for the recovery of income from this majority which allowed the creation of 150 000 jobs, but the law that exists, the labour code that exists to frame the work that has been created by the income recovery policy is still the PSD and CDS Labour Code, which provides for the possibility of places, even for permanent functions - and many of these jobs that have been created correspond to permanent functions - may be occupied by precarious, non-permanent employment contracts. In fact, this was the debate we had two days ago, that is, about the articles of the law that allow a young person, only because he is young, even if he is performing a permanent function, to have a term contract, or one unemployed, only because he is unemployed long-term, to see his amputated protection with regard to labour rights and to have a precarious contract for a permanent function, or an undertaking, only because he is starting an activity or opening up a new establishment, can hire 100 % of his workers, even though he obviously has permanent needs. It was this discussion that we had two days ago and, before going into detail to the CDS proposals, I would like to draw attention, in particular, to the Members of the Socialist Party, to the fact that the good results of the current majority in job creation should not make us critical about the type of job being created. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, 83 % of contracts that have been made in the last two years are non-permanent contracts, are long-term contracts, and 68 % of young people in Portugal have long-term contracts. That is why it is important to change the rules on the right in the labour code, which allow this situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u71	... and we will have the opportunity to make that vote here in Parliament. That is what is in the Government's programme and we hope that the Socialist Party will still come to this debate and take a stand. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On the CDS, it is already known that it is in favour of maintaining these and other rules and today it brings three proposals for debate, all of them to the detriment of what is needed, all of them next to it, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia. The CDS — on whose bench is also sitting, in this debate, former Minister Pedro Mota Soares — who was responsible for the degradation of working conditions at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ) ; the CDS who was responsible for disarticulation of vocational training and for the provision of short-term training, without any meaning to most of the unemployed, who did these trainings only to be removed from unemployment statistics;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u72	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u73	... the CDS that dealt with the adult education and training policy, which proposals today bring about training? Increase the public training offer? Provide more resources for the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training? Regularize the precarious situation of IEFP trainers? To bet on the recognition and validation of competences to do justice to those who have a life of work and learning, but do not have these skills formally recognized? Exempting workers-students from propines? Are you bringing any of these measures? Nothing! No action! No measures in the field of training, other than a training check, to allow public resources to be delivered to private institutions that train. It doesn't make any sense, sir. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u74	It was exactly the opposite that we needed: strengthening the PSI, strengthening and giving working conditions to trainers, having training plans that make sense to those who are unemployed or workers who want to value their skills, strengthening recognition and validation of competence, strengthening adult education and training.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u75	It's all bad, but you guys haven't done anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u76	But there's another CDS project on collective bargaining. Where did we need to end the expiry of collective conventions—which are the employer's blackmail weapon to reduce rights and to have the new conventions include less favourable rules than the law and less favourable than the previous conventions—what does the CDS propose? That collective conventions may expire more quickly, in fact corresponding to the CDS proposal that was already in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u77	The proposal is for social consultation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u78	Where did we need to restore the most favourable treatment principle to ensure that collective hiring is to pull the working conditions up, what does the CDS propose? The possibility of a collective convention to have less favourable rules than the law, i.e., to be maintained in the field of collective bargaining, is maintained by the law of the strongest. Finally, Mr President, on a subject which the CDS brought to debate, seeking to give a certain luxury of innovation and which, from our point of view, is an important matter and which raises new questions, what the CDS does is a draft resolution that is dumbfounded, superficial and that raises the questions to the contrary. I am talking about the so-called 'right to turn off'. There is already a definition in Portugal of what should be a working time and we well know that the CDS has put everything in the law, made everything possible to facilitate and unschedule working hours. But the law also defines rules on supplementary work. What was the contribution of the CDS, in addition to disrupting working hours, with changes to the Labour Code? It was to cut by half the value of additional work, i.e. to reduce by half the price paid for extraordinary work, encouraging overtime, through a policy which, above all, is contrary to job creation, because it is a policy of embarrassing the prolongation of hours. So we know what the proposal is and what the CDS' contributions were at this level. But today we have a problem: that, apart from the deregulation of schedules and the embarrassment of additional work, promoted by the right hand, we have a situation in Portugal where workers are doing many extraordinary hours and often unpaid hours and, with new information and communication technologies, there have also been new forms of abuse, i.e. new forms of informal extension of working hours — either by telephone or by e-mail — through which workers are constantly requested and, in a logic of hyperconnectivity, they are constantly being asked to be connected to the demands of employers. Now, our law already guarantees the right to shut down, because it guarantees the limitation of working hours. But we know — and this concerns us — that this right is not being fully exercised because employers do not respect their duty not to request and not to contact workers outside their working hours. And this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to put the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u80	It is not to say that workers have the right to turn off, because that is what they already have. It must be enshrined in the law—as the Left Block defends and will present a project to be voted on in this Parliament—the duty of professional disconnection by employers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u81	Furthermore, Mr President, it is not only necessary to enshrine in the law the duty of professional disconnection on the part of companies, i.e. the obligation not to contact workers outside the working hours, such as to consider that, when companies fail to fulfil that duty, which is a duty of employers, we are faced with a phenomenon of moral harassment, which must be punished as such.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u83	Therefore, we do not have enough recommendations or plead on what the law already says. We need to know where the root of the problem is, attack it in the law and define not only an effective legislative formulation, but also ways of suppressing the abusive behaviour of companies, which are now colonizing the working time of workers, especially those who live more dependent and with greater connection to information and communication technologies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u84	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today the debate three recommendations to the Government, ranging from the subjects of vocational training, with a focus on Cheque-Training, to the new modalities of performance of work, with a focus on telework, and also adds to this discussion collective recruitment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD welcomes the proposing party to this debate on these labour issues and wishes to make it clear that, for us, the most important common denominator in this debate is the well expressed appeal that these matters should be discussed in social dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u87	The Left Block and the Communist Party will not say the same, but the conciliation has two underlying principles that the PSD values very much: social dialogue and social peace. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u88	Social consultation, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a true decompression chamber, in which the parties of the extreme left do not revere.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u89	What about the extreme right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u90	For these minorities, the society of racism, revolution and conflicts in labor relations are their guarantee of survival, with whom the Socialist Party — see there! — decided to find a government solution for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u91	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u92	It's true! Again, sir! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in this ideological contradiction, which is inadequate to the present times, that this Government of the Socialist Party supports its governance and that it is obliged to adopt proposals which have never, at any time, found an opening in the Labour Code, having always been plunged into this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u93	What about the Constitutional Court? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u94	Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, times are different. We all know that labour laws are the most obvious borders between the right and the left and, if this wall falls, if this border breaks down, the country will no longer progress and we will become committed to the destruction of everything we have recovered so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u95	It's the devil!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u96	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD does not waive its responsibility and, therefore, we have always appealed to a new level of growth, I repeat, a new level of growth, always reporting, I repeat, always denouncing the signs of an postponed country. And that is what: the government and its coalition partners have no desire to continue the reforms of the previous government, PSD / CDS. Reject them! Work reforms will be postponed and those made by the previous Government are being reversed. This is not new, it's what the Portuguese have been watching. The government is deaf to the opposition and to the international institutions, which constantly call on us to pursue the reformist path that the country has had so far. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are pleased with the confirmation that the country is growing, but we are disappointed because this government constantly reveals a lack of capacity to consolidate these growth prospects. Otherwise, let's see: GDP is growing, but the previous government, ruling under the adverse conditions it had, from 2014 to 2015 almost doubled its growth. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we demand action from the Government. We also call for government action in the capacity to generate jobs, which must follow the same impulse as the fall in unemployment. It should be remembered that the large drop in unemployment, 75%, occurred between 2014 and 2015, when 282,000 unemployed people came out of this scourge.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u97	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u98	We therefore have the legitimacy to demand action from this government. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we demand more action from this government to create more and better jobs. Why? — they will ask me, of course. Because precarious employment is increasing. Combating precariousness is central to PSD, but this government has turned it into a populist announcement to please its coalition partners. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD calls for measures to be taken to increase productivity, to follow the recommendations of the OECD report this week, which refers to « giving priority to vocations ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, because we speak in vocations, we speak in vocational training, also today in debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u100	Our country has a government that has hardly taken possession of it, has immediately pressed itself to criticise and announce such a revolution in the active policies of employment and vocational training carried out by the previous Government, PSD / CDS, always criticizing the tax and financial implementation rates presented in these measures. It is a fact: this Government of the Socialist Party denied any contribution to these measures in the anemic force that companies and assets employed and unemployed have obtained in this way. Today, the Cheque-Training, a measure created by the previous Government, on which at the time we left the recommendation that months after its implementation should be reassessed, also suffered criticism from this Government. But to our admiration, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the continued active measure, its beneficiaries continue to be able to compete, presenting their candidatures, but employers, employees and the unemployed, bring us the information that, after applications have been submitted, there are no answers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Czech-Training measure, we also demand action from this Government. Will the government continue this measure or will it not? Workers need active vocational training measures to enable them to acquire new skills and improve acquired skills. More and more, the working world will require vocational retraining plans, allowing the worker to adapt to the new needs of the labour market, where the State must have a very important role as facilitator and regulator of vocational training, and this government has simply had a paralysing effect. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u101	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for all this, and much more so that there will be to say, the PSD has the legitimacy to continue demanding the action of this government. We demand action from this government! The Socialist Party and this Government must define whether they remain hostage to the left — the Left Block and the CFP — which aim to destroy labour laws and, consequently, the development and growth of the country, or whether they are hostage, but well anchored — in this case, it would be well anchored — to the highest values of a just, balanced society, of workers and businesses, of families and individuals, where well-being prevails for all. [[All right!]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u102	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if for the Socialist Party and for this government it is a question, for the PSD it is a certainty. Whether we are in power or opposition, our mission is to serve the country with patriotism, always with patriotism, as we did in the four years that we were in government and that we rescued the country from the crisis. Be sure, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that we would do much better than what is being done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u103	It is not certain, it is « nin»!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u104	For an intervention, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, given the obvious lack of imagination on the right, the tone of the debate here has been stopped. But I like it, because I think you always learn something. Even if you learn some tricks a little bit cheated, but we'll take note. What the ladies are talking about. Members of the bench on the right have used us to an old trick: always speaking on behalf of someone who cannot be present and therefore cannot manifest itself, not even his displeasure. I'm talking about the Portuguese people. That is why you have filled your ears to speak of the Portuguese people, who are now your hero, but for four years they have not been tired of whipping. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The second trick, swindled, is to always appeal to the cleavage between the PS and the other parties with which we have established an agreement. I have already said here — and I am stating again with all clarity — the following: neither I nor the Socialist Party have complex positions we take. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u106	We agree with the objectives that the left here has brought — we have no problems saying it — and often we do not agree with the way or timing it presents. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the right, don't get tired, because we don't have any moves! They are not trying to cleavage on issues with which, in fact, there are differences between us, but they are public and notorious differences. I also realize that this causes you some inconvenience, but we, the Socialist Party, live well with the differences, think that the differences are healthy, enriching and that is how a society can develop. We are not by unanimity!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u108	In fact, a third important point is that this debate has confirmed an excellent thing: not only is the government governing how it should be, supported by a solid left majority, how it is able to stimulate some of the creative park of the direct,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... that, for four years, he was able only to sell public companies to waste, impoverish workers, withdraw their rights, cut wages and pensions and — excuse me the term — other such barbarities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, it has shown that there is a gap in the right and such a distortion of reality that you already see as the authors of measures and policies that—you can imagine! — they have not been tired of rejecting until a few months ago, calling them harmful, inconsequential, accusing the PS government, who had the courage to implement, the worker of the country's misfortune, predicting the worst catastrophes and even the coming of the devil! For now, the so-called "Cinderella pumpkin" has become a sumptuous car, catastrophes have turned into precious pearls...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u109	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u110	And who owes all this to? Well, then, who would it be? To the sublime initiative of the previous government! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they have a little decorum. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What has changed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the rise of the national minimum wage, which you voted against; it was the reversal of 35 working hours, which you voted against... What's changed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the rise of the national minimum wage, which you voted against; it was the reversal of 35 hours, which you voted against; it was the repeal of the so-called'requalification', which you voted against; it was the replacement of wages, eliminating cuts, which you voted against; it was the increase of pensions, which you voted against. And I refrain from continuing. Who does not understand, in fact, the Portuguese are you. You cannot face reality and, above all, do not bear this evidence, do not endure condemning a people to a situation of poverty and hopelessness and thus not attaining a single goal — a single goal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In just 18 months, the management, that VV. They both despise, succeeded in restoring democratic normality or, as Mr Prime Minister said yesterday, "democratic tranquillity" and giving the Portuguese people a new hope, fulfilling all the goals they have proposed and even improving them significantly in some cases. That is why, contrary to what you say, the Portuguese and Portuguese are understanding us perfectly and are also understanding you perfectly. So much so that the left has a majority stable and the PSD is falling free. [[PSD protests.]] I know the truth hurts, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It hurts a lot! There is even a well-known phrase that says “it’s mostly the truth that hurts”, that is, it’s especially the truth that hurts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u111	Magic, but it only hurts in French!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u112	And I'm telling you one thing: it hurt even more the Portuguese between 2011 and 2015. in this forum, each parliamentary group presents what it means to be better...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u113	Ask Socrates what's best!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u114	Here you are, Mr. José de Matos Rosa. Come here and ask the question! Be a Democrat! I'm not always giving suggestions to others! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I was saying in this forum, each parliamentary group presents what it means to be the best solution to the problems, but, attention, only expresses one of the many possible points of view, because there are no absolute truths. We remember, however, that the right has been fertile in various inconsistencies, triggered only by a galloping ideological drift, coming to propose materials that neither the bosses nor the workers received. In fact, take the cup!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u116	As far as working matters — allow me to be immodesty, I am not a lawyer, but I have been employed on behalf of someone else, I know perfectly well what it is to work in a company and sometimes listening to certain people, it seems to me that they have no notion of what a company is and what work is on behalf of someone else. They believe that we should not, in our view, move towards legislative production or allow what we call 'ritton laws', i.e. laws which can be passed on to successive amendments, as a result of the occasion, without having time for due weighting. Nor should the lives of people depend solely on a kind of legislative competition. from our point of view, there is no greater guarantee for workers, workers and their families than the agreements laid down in collective bargaining processes, up to a simple reason: a law may be amended by a certain government or by this Parliament, but an agreement always needs the agreement of the parties to be changed. Francisco Sá Carneiro stated that « it doesn't matter to people to know that they have recognised rights in principle if their exercise is denied in practice».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u117	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u118	Let us therefore examine the three draft resolutions submitted by the CDS-PP, since they represent the best example of the lack of right-wing creativity. Let's keep track of your content. The CDS then presents to us draft resolution No 903 / XIII, which recommends to the Government that it promote a debate within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation ( CPCS ), draft resolution No 904 / XIII, which recommends that the Government initiate a debate within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation and, third and lastly, draft resolution No 905 / XIII — guess the objective! — recommending that the Government initiate a debate within the Standing Committee on Social Affairs. That is to say, the CDS-PP proposes that the Government debate what is being debated and, indeed, proposes even in the case of draft resolution No 905/ XIII, which concerns expiry and survival, a point which has already been included in the last social agreement—and is not an old one year, because it was signed in December and put into force at the beginning of January this year—and which provides for an 18-year period in which the parties intend not to invoke the expiry of the contracts, thus appealing to the failure to comply with that social agreement of which they wish to set up in Palladins and do not, in practice, have any reason for this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] As for respect for the CDS for social consultation, we are talking. On the other hand, I am also reminded of the comitious state to which the collective negotiation with the previous Government has reached and I would like to stress — yes, that is what matters — the recent measure adopted by the Council of Ministers setting the maximum time limit of 35 working days for the analysis of the extension gates. That, yes, is an intelligent measure, it is an active measure and it is a measure that will have its results, and that is how it is done with regard to collective bargaining. I also recommend reading the Green Paper, which was published last March. I agree that reading more than 400 pages is not always very stimulating, but it has the advantage of elucidating us on the strength lines that will exist throughout 2017 in the discussion between the social partners. Centre - me, now, in the analysis of draft resolution No 903 / XIII, which, in fact, forms the same habit, since the cheque-training measure will be widely discussed, both by employers' confederations and trade unions, at the head of CPCS. One of the issues that should be discussed is that of violating both the existing legislation and the conditions laid down for initial training and lifelong training enshrined in collective labour conventions, in addition, they apologize for the term, but I do not find another — for putting entrepreneurs and workers into work as well as for the occupations to be carried out, professional categories, the withdrawal of one of the parties, the failure of the companies and, even more seriously, I do not see how they can articulate this with the principles of social security, in which only unemployment benefits are allocated when unemployment is involuntary. As regards the measure of the training check, it should be noted that the implementation in April gave a different reading than what we have today. In fact, in April, the physical execution of the measure was 27 % and the financial execution was 17 4 %. Therefore, the measure records an expected execution against the defined targets, and it cannot be concluded by its low execution and much less substantiated in this fact, as the CDS does, the need for possible revision. Recognizing the importance of reflecting on the profile of the setting up and implementation of active employment and vocational training measures—so far as this Government has been practised—as well as the indisputable role of the social partners in the evaluation and possible revision of the measures, we believe that the measure under consideration, having only come into effect at the end of 2015 — listen well — has not yet reached the necessary consolidation and a serious assessment of the effectiveness of its configuration. Finally, draft resolution No 904 / XIII, on the so-called « right to disconnect », is treated in a very small way and, we would say, without great rigour and whose explanatory statement shows the real intent of the CDS. I didn't want to be unpleasant, but I would say that people don't understand much about it either, because one of the most obvious mistakes is to connect telework only to the situation of a work being done at home. Telework can also be carried out within the company or its facilities and it is even more serious to consider that this type of work reduces stress, while since the 1990s it has been studied its negative impact on teleworkers, and this is in this sense referred to in International Labour Organization ( ILO ) Convention C177. It's this leviana way...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u119	Huh? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u120	... that only the advantages are listed for the worker as a teleworker, ignoring, or not wanting to see, that the "right to disconnect" in the French labour code is not restricted to telework but to the abuse of the use of electronic instruments, and that the worker must attend his phone or read the emails sent by his superior hierarchical or even by a customer on a holiday or off a working day. This is at the heart of the question: it is not so much for workers at home who have the « right to disconnect », it is for workers who are permanently violated in their rights in relation to working hours, rest periods and other related matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Members should know that there are sectors in Portugal in which their conventions provide for a kind of reserve of their workers, called, for example, on call service, as exists in the TAP business agreement ( AE ), but which also exists in other sectors in conventions, in fact signed by either of the two confederations. On the other hand, the project completely forgets to list the disadvantages — which I refrain from listing, although it is available to clarify whether questions have been asked to me — which, even at the level of telework alone, are far too unknown to those who really know the subject. In addition, I would like to remind you that the normal daily working period, rest, and I have already referred to this issue, and other related matters to which workers are entitled, such as telework, are matters already enshrined in the Labour Code. Finally, I do not refuse to mention the Minister of Labour in an interview he gave yesterday: "We are not in favour of small changes in labour law, we are in a process of evaluating a set of areas: collective bargaining, precariousness, organization of working time. They are structural aspects of labour relations. And we want a joint proposal." following this interview, Mr. Minister referred to an issue already addressed here by Mr. Anacoreta Correia, which is that of the increase of collective bargaining to 65 %, not forgetting that between 2013 and 2014 in the years of governance of the PSD only 249 000 workers had, in fact, covered by collective conventions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Minister concludes by saying: "It is easier to move when there is a negotiating dynamism and integrate in this dynamism some changes that are needed". This is the spirit we have, and this is essentially our position. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u121	Mrs Wanda Guimarães, the Bureau registered two Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u122	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u123	Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u124	Mr President, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, after a deafening silence of the Socialist Party... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u125	... Mrs. Deputy had an interview for 19 minutes to speak. [[PS Protests and laughter.]] He spoke in a lack of imagination, spoke in trickery, in Portuguese people absent from this debate and even quotes in French we were entitled. Mr Member, are the Portuguese people absent from this debate? I noticed that Mrs Deputy mentioned twice Mr Prime Minister once the Minister of Labour... Well, we already realize that Mrs Deputy is representing the government, not representing the Portuguese people. [[PS protests.]] But I am here representing the Portuguese people, Your Honor! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Do you call me swindled? Oh, my God! ...Mrs. Member, what you presented to us here was a swindled speech, that is,... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ... because the debate we have here is the debate between those who are living in the past and those who want to look to the future, Mrs Deputies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u126	It is the debate between those who respect and consider social dialogue, where employers and trade unions are represented, the workers, and those who do not respect it, Mrs Deputie! It is the debate between those who even have a deep disregard for social dialogue, as we have seen the Left Block and the PCP manifest here in this Chamber still in this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u127	Wait till you hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u128	For us, for the CDS, that the PCP and that the Left Block have this deep contempt we do not strange; that the PS has now decided to do like the ostrich, put his head on the sand, because it depends on the PCP and the Left Block to be in power and is not able to take a free and loose debate in this Chamber,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u130	...that and what a shame, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u132	The CDS proposals are innovative. [[They're, they're, they're, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u133	More: the CDS proposals are proposals that respect social consultation and the principle that they should go to social dialogue. Madam Member, do not take refuge in silence again, do not say that the problem is timing; we want to hear what the PS thinks about this, because we have not heard a single idea about what the Socialist Party thinks. Is the honourable Member in favour of or against the extraordinary license with remuneration, as proposed by the CDS? We don't understand! Is the Member in favour of or against this license linked to the training check? We didn't know whether it was in favor or against. Is the honourable Member in favour or against the right to disconnect, as proposed by the CDS? We didn't know whether it was for or against. Regarding telework and how it reconciles with shutdown, we also failed to understand whether the PS was for or against. Madam Member, it is not worth saying that it is in favour and then to arrive here and vote against, because the proposal is not yours or the government, it is ours! Because this, with all honesty, reveals the limitation that the Socialist Party currently has in these debates. What are you afraid of? Are you afraid that the CDS proposals, to be approved in this Chamber, will be considered positive in social consultation and will be approved in social consultation? Is that what you're afraid of? Mr Member, I understand the difficulty and juggling of those who are hostage to their support on the left in these debates, but with all honesty, I think the Socialist Party's time has come to tell what is coming. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u134	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u135	Mr. President, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, we have noted in this House your disappointment. But, Madam Member, the PSD Parliamentary Group defends, as it has always defended, social dialogue without radical ideologies and always for the highest national interest. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u136	We look at collective bargaining with pragmatism, an environment of social peace and a sense of responsibility that has always supported our Parliamentary Group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u137	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this debate, it is important to see whether or not the Socialist Party is prepared to discuss these matters in Parliament and also in social dialogue. The Socialist Party, which today presents itself in this Chamber, has tried to take off, but it cannot, is dependent on the cyclonic winds that now blow the Left Block, with the issues of precariousness, the PCP's now with old claims of the CGTP... [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u138	in our case it's norted!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen! I know it's annoying. As I said, the PS is dependent on the cyclical winds that blow now from the Left Block, with the issues of precariousness, or PCP with old CGTP claims, with changes to the labor laws where what matters is to revert and is to revoke what has been done in the past. In response to the coalition partners, the Socialist Party in the Government, particularly the Minister of Labour and Social Security, says: "We must do everything with good sense and prudence. Do not keep on seeking. ” from this government we demand more action. We regret that no measures are being taken to increase productivity and improve the competitiveness of the labour market. Members, with this government productivity does not show signs of improvement and the country has not achieved the perfect binomy of more growth and better productivity. If today we see a significant improvement in employment and unemployment data, it is never too much to remember, Mrs and Mrs. Members, that we owe it to the former PSD Government / CDS. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u140	You are saying that the measures have been excessive. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was the measures necessary to withdraw the Father from the decline and from the marasmo to which he was subjected during the period of socialist governance, but the same one that signed the Memorandum of Understanding with the troika and which today rules the country. [[Exactly!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u141	You may not want to hear our opinion, as they said last Wednesday in the debate on similar matters, but if we are watching a recovery today it was because the previous PSD/CDS Government was able to take the right measures, bringing together the essential consensus to carry out the necessary reforms that allowed the recovery of employment and the withdrawal of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are defending today in this House as we stand in the past, and always a serious social dialogue, a fruitful social dialogue, a dialogue where the parties — workers and employers — are represented and respected. We do not, nor do we, like the parties on the left, defend ourselves in a policy based on the three rs: the r of abrogation, the r of a reversal and the r of a return to labour reforms by pure demagogy or political ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u142	The recycling r!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u143	I know it hurts to hear you, Mrs. Deputy! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I now address to Mrs Wanda Guimarães the following questions: it is important to know, Mrs Deputy, what the Socialist Party's opinion on this matter, because the honourable Member has talked a lot about the rostrum, but we have not been able to understand. Is the Socialist Party with social dialogue, with social dialogue? Or is the Socialist Party with its Left Block and PCP coalition partners in Parliament and with the CGTP stage on the street? Please clarify us, Your Honor. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u144	In response to the two requests for clarification, Mrs Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u145	Mr. President, thank you very much. I would like to thank the honourable Members in particular. Deputies Antonio Carlos Monteiro and Helga Correia who did not ask any questions, practically, but who made just a few political statements...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u146	I didn't ask questions! Is that what you're talking about? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u147	I would just say that Mr António Carlos Monteiro has, in fact, any problem, because he always personalizes, that is, always asks what my position is, asks what I will decide...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u148	O PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u149	So you always have this difficulty. I will clarify the honourable Member, but sometimes I feel a bit, I confess, powerless, I think I need until I bring a dictionary of Portuguese to see if you understand anything! On the other hand, I spoke for 19 minutes, if you think I didn't say anything, that is an illusion that you can withdraw and are free to do, but in fact, you didn't ask any questions. As for Mrs Helga Correia, I would say that I did not do so, and you are certainly wrong. That's what I do in the family... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u150	You just made the rostrum!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u151	I expressed the position of the Socialist Party. And you know what, Mrs. Member? It is that your pragmatism has led the people to misery and the workers to deprotection. That's what the PSD pragmatism does! It's pragmatism! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u152	That's what you guys left!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u153	After all, I can't see if we have results or not, if we revert or if we don't revert... Sometimes we have results and you get the results; sometimes, after all, we don't have any results. But now I congratulate him: they discovered the binomy. Make good use of him! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u154	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to the Assembly of the Republic to decide. It is the Assembly of the Republic which has the power to decide and to legislate on labour matters. In addition, although this speech by the PSD and the CDS, recently, the last agreement of social consultation was the subject of a decision of the Assembly of the Republic with the contribution of the PSD and the CDS. So, Mrs. Helga Correia, how is it that social consultation is always heard? The last agreement of the social consultation, which provided for the reduction of the TSU as an exchange currency for the increase of the national minimum wage, was the subject of a backlog by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u156	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u157	And we say 'well', because this has resulted in the safeguard of social security. We therefore believe that it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to decide because, in fact, it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to ensure the legislative amendment and, I would say, it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to ensure the improvement of the living conditions of the workers and the people. Having said that, I would like to point out that we do not, at all, follow this view that labour law matters should be subject to the veto of employers in social consultation. This could indeed be the will of the PSD and the CDS, but that is not what is in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It is up to the Assembly of the Republic to legislate and it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that measures have been taken to improve living conditions. It is important to remember this: at all times when the replacement of rights was decided in the recent past, what was the position of the patronate on this matter, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen? When the replacement of two religious holidays and two civil holidays was decided here in the Assembly of the Republic, what did the patronage decide? The employer decided that this measure should not be taken. The PSD and the CDS voted against the replacement of the four holidays that were stolen from the workers and the people. This decision of the PSD and CDS makes it clear why workers' rights and the CDS are like water and oil: do not mix! It is that the CDS does not mix with workers' rights because, in fact, the only heritage of the CDS in relation to workers' rights is the liquidation of workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, if the CDS is in fact concerned with respect for the link between family life and working life, if the CDS is in fact concerned, effectively, with the need for reduced working hours, then, Mr President, in just over 30 minutes we shall vote on a proposal from the CFP which repeals the hour banks, why does the CSD not make such a contribution to improving living conditions, to the articulation of family life and working life? The CDS that makes this contribution, but it does not, Mr! You know why? Because the CDS is on the side of there, it is on the side of the patronage veto, it is not on the side of defending workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, I would also like to ask you a question, I would say, even, of asking the PS some questions about the PS position taken in this debate. The honourable Member said here that the PS follows many of the CFP's proposals in the field of work, only does not agree with the form and timing. Madam Member, it is not the schedule or agenda of the CFP that requires the repeal of the most serious standards of the Labour Code; it is not the agenda of the CFP that requires the revocation of the group and individual hourly banks; it is not the agenda of the CFP that requires the increase of wages and pensions; it is not the agenda of the CFP that requires the effective fight against precariousness, the end of outsourcing and the temporary work for permanent needs; it is not the agenda of the CFP that requires the end of the expiry of the collective contract, that leaves thousands of workers of fundamental rights; it is not the agenda of the CFP that requires the replacement of the principle of the most favourable treatment. What requires action now is not the agenda of the CFP, it is the lives of workers, it is their dignity, it is the urgent need to restore rights,... [[PCP applause.]] ... is the need to ensure, now and now, the replacement of fundamental rights, because we are dealing with people's lives. We're not talking about party agendas, we're talking about people's lives. For this reason, on the part of the CFP, we will continue to present proposals which have resulted in improving the living conditions of workers and the people. It's just, sirs. Members, on these matters of labour law, the CFP is very proud to defend, here, the most fragile part of the working relationship, which are the workers, and that the Labour Code and the Constitution enshrine as the part that needs greater protection. The CFP will continue to hit these issues, because at the end of this debate, Mr President, it is very easy to conclude which side will be the CFP. As far as interests are concerned, workers know that they can expect both the CDS and the bankers in this country to expect the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u158	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes had expressed interest in applying for clarification, but that would no longer be possible, since Mrs Rita Rato had used up her time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u159	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u160	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u161	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that, since we like the debate to be productive and constructive, we will give one minute of our time so that Mrs Rita Rato can respond to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u162	That'll be it. I ask the services to do the favor of transferring time to the PCP. Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u163	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, in fact, it seems important to me to hear the opinion of the honourable Member and his party on what has been said by your Government and which was still said yesterday by your Minister Vieira da Silva. Mr Vieira da Silva said about collective bargaining, that there is indeed a dynamisation of collective bargaining. However, this dynamisation of collective bargaining — which your Minister has acknowledged — has not yet made any changes to work, clearly results from the amendments introduced by the PSD/CDS to the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u164	All right! It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u165	Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u166	I would therefore like to hear the honourable Member's opinion on this fact that you have been denied by your Minister. I also have another question, Mrs Deputies, regarding the expiry of collective agreements. The honourable Member continues to demand the expiry of collective agreements. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, clarify to Parliament what will be the position you will adopt after the Minister once again said in yesterday's interview that it did not advocate the end of expiry. It is important that the honourable Member clarify this position, especially because the Portuguese want to know exactly what they can count on. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u167	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u168	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I thank the question and the extra minute of time, even more because this allows me to make here an exercise of remembrance of a present memory. It is that, just over two weeks ago, at the initiative of the CFP, matters relating to the expiry of the collective contract have been discussed in this Chamber. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u169	We've been here 15 days to answer the question that you put. That is what the honourable Member says is that the Minister Vieira da Silva, Minister of the PS and a Government of the PS, has a historic divergence with the CFP on matters of collective bargaining. Well, Mrs. Member, that's life too. I would say that it is life, unfortunately, because if Mr Vieira da Silva does not have the view that the CFP has on collective bargaining, that is not just a problem for the Minister, it is also for the thousands of workers who are away from the application of collective bargaining, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u170	And? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u171	Therefore, we would very much like the end of the expiry of the collective contract, which was introduced into the Labour Code by a PSD/CDS government, which was aggravated in 2009 and 2012, to be repealed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u172	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. This meant that many workers would become covered by rights that exist only in collective bargaining. But do you know that the CGTP has filed a petition with more than 76,000 signatures on this subject? ' We'll talk about it again. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u174	Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The debate is coming to an end...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u176	The debate has not yet come to an end, this is a lot of presumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u177	... in which three draft resolutions submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP were discussed, which irrespective of the intrinsic merits that they close, certainly have the virtue of valuing social dialogue in our country. The enhancement of social consultation is a priority matter for the PSD, as a personalist, reformist and social-democrat political party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u179	Ever since, in government or opposition, the PSD has believed in social consultation, which has valued as a privileged space of institutionalized dialogue and cooperation between the social partners, recognizing also the importance of its role in seeking and solidifying commitments and balances between the legitimate aspirations of workers and the challenges of the world of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u181	We do not belong to those radical segments of the extreme left that continue to believe, although they rarely have the hombity of assuming, in revolutionary legitimacy and in class struggle.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u182	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u183	If we are extreme-left, you are extreme-right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u184	That is why it is worth recalling some very enlightening steps in this regard, published in recent years, for example, by prominent leaders of the CFP, in the magazine of that party, which gives by the name of The Militant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u185	Have a good study!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u186	Any true democrat is at least scandalized—not to qualify him with another adjective— by reading this manual of the thought and tactics of the Portuguese Communist Party. Let us look at a few examples. The theses defended there shudder and reveal well that only through calculus do the far-left parties pretend to accept the rules of representative and pluralist democracy, of which social dialogue is an important tool to achieve platforms of understanding between relevant economic and social segments of Portuguese society. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] And what does the magazine say, for example? in an article entitled Social Concertation — Instrument for capitalist recovery, it is said, and I quote: ‘The ‘discovery’ of social dialogue by social-democracy in the post-war had the same objectives that it has today:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u187	There's nothing like insulting others!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u188	Mrs Rita Rato, not always the tallest one is right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u189	All right! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u190	Not always who shouts taller is right. Continuing to quote: ‘The ‘discovery’ of social dialogue by the social-democracy in the post-war had the same objectives that you have today: to paralyze the demanding action of masses, to integrate the unions into the system, at a stage of the rise of the workers’ movement. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u192	It is also said that — and I continue to quote —: « The ‘institutionalized social consultation’ is an integral part of the policies and mechanisms for the liquidation of the major social and economic achievements achieved with the April Revolution, (...)’.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u193	It's true! [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u194	in a last quote of this magazine, it is said: « In Portugal, except for a better opinion, since it was created in 1984, social consultation has never gone through an ambush to support the exploitation of workers. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u195	Are you still quoting? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: does anyone really expect Marxist-Leninist and Trotskyist parties, as is the case with the PCP and the Left Block, to have a spirit of social dialogue and believe that it is for the commitment that we will all make progress, socially and economically, the country? If this illusion only credulous or foolish has it, it is sad to note, unfortunately, that the Socialist Party, while continuing to proclaim the virtues of social consultation, has, in important matters, relegated this space to a nearly deposit of previous decisions, thus disrespecting the open and frank dialogue, without taboos or previous impositions, which should take place there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u198	It is appropriate to say that demagogy is, by nature, sectarian and intolerant. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are not, in this Chamber, pamphlet speeches, with ironies and unpleasant jokes, enlarged by hysterical screams, which will hide that the PS and its government have put the social concert in the drawer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u200	The Socialist Party should therefore revisit its best exponents of the past, beginning with its welcoming former Secretary-General, Mário Soares, who created the Permanent Council of Social Concertation in 1984.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u202	The Socialist Party will therefore have, in the vote on these initiatives today under discussion, an excellent opportunity to show whether it is in favour or not and social dialogue is appreciated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u204	In fact, what is proposed is the adoption of recommendations to the Government, in order for it to promote, within the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue, the debate on relevant matters such as the deepening of the training check measure created by the former Executive ; telework in public service or the improvement of collective bargaining. It is therefore proposed to discuss new ways and to seek a maximum common denominator in socio-working issues. E, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the doors are not closed. And those who are democratized by conviction, not by convenience, are not afraid to open the positive discussion with economic and social actors.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u206	The PSD will therefore vote in favour of these recommendations, because we have always been — and we will, as I said at the outset — be on the side of solving problems and on the side of social dialogue. The governmental and parliamentary majority that is still here today in this Parliament has the opportunity to show the country is also believed in the social dialogue, in the field of the country's economic and social policy, or whether it chooses the path of political radicalism and the face-to-face with the social partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u207	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u208	It is that in these matters, as in others, not always who shouts more is right. On the other hand, it is curious to see that those who, for decades, have always devalued Parliament, exchanging it on the street, now, for convenience, have put the street in the bag and, after so many decades of democracy, have a sudden love for this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] It is that being left-handed or extreme-left is not a certificate of virtue, rather. As we have unfortunately seen today, it is often a statement of inconsistency, convenience and lack of memory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u209	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are coming to the end of this debate. A debate which the CDS has proposed and which has guided around a discussion I repeat, as is the custom of making Mrs Cristian Assunção, a « little boy». It was a little bit of a debate in the proposals they made, because we were waiting a little longer. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy. You have made a marking on labour policies, we were waiting for some work proposals and are presenting three draft resolutions which basically recommend debates, which basically recommend that the Government debate, that the Socialist Party recommend that the Government debate; that the parties of the Assembly of the Republic recommend that the Government debate in social consultation. They are proposals « little ones ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating. In fact, we do what you have not done, when you have decided, more than once, to take up workers' rights, to make these proposals without going to social dialogue. And, as Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte pointed out here, and very well, social dialogue exists in the country at the initiative of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we have not received lessons from anyone in social dialogue, nor have we excluded — as you usually do — none of this social dialogue, including the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers. It happens that, after our debate in social dialogue, we arrive at proposals, we arrive at projects. We often have signed solutions, signed solutions. What happens when these solutions are signed and signed? They see this Assembly of the Republic, the CDS is absent and the PSD votes against the social dialogue, which will be discussed here. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Therefore, lead PSD and CDS are absent: this is the enhancement that make social dialogue and social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They also talk a lot about reforms, reformism. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not done any reform of labour legislation — cutting holidays and cutting extra work is not doing any job reform. In fact, Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte spoke in social-democracy — I am glad that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho was not on the bench at that time because he was sorry to hear about social-democracy! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] You do not only have a political problem, you also have a logical problem. About a year ago they accused the current government of promoting the destruction of employment between the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016. Therefore, the current government, which had just taken over, was responsible for the destruction of jobs in the country and for the coming — it became famous — of the famous devil who apparently continues to fail. Now that employment grows, fires, net job creation has increased and unemployment has fallen, whose responsibility is it? It's from you, of course! Two years after your work reforms, we don't know exactly what they were until today. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, you do not submit proposals for the layoff of workers. You are left out of the reality of the country and the reality of Portuguese workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u211	If we were in your position, we would also prefer to turn off this reality. Why? Investment has grown the highest since 1998 ; social security is over EUR 1500 million ; 136 000 unemployed have stopped cutting their subsidies since June 1 ; GDP has grown at a rate that has not been seen for many years; low unemployment ; we have confidence in consumers at maximum levels since 1997 ; we have a reduction in the tax burden ; we have the lowest deficit in the history of democracy and we have achieved all this by increasing the income of families, increasing the minimum wage and protecting workers. The workers and the Portuguese who see us know that we can only have these results because we reverse the policies that you wanted to pursue for the country and that you apparently want to continue. So I am sure that the Portuguese want to continue to follow the course that we have seen over the past 2 years and not the political communication course that you want to do around these 2 years, and that is why the Socialist Party today, in this House, will suck down the legislative simulation that the CDS has tried to make. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u212	To close this item on our agenda, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have reached the end of this debate and it is important to remember what was and is at stake. The CDS asked Parliament and Portuguese questions. The first question is: is it possible for a worker to take a break in his professional career to gain qualifications, to engage in training, a course, and to have some financial support for this project? Is that possible? Is it possible to do this and have some financial support without such a burden too much for social security and without this measure being populist and inconsistent? Is that possible? Is it possible to present a measure of this and, at the same time, to combat unemployment? Is a worker undertaking this training project given the opportunity to at the same time hire a worker who is unemployed and to receive unemployment benefit? Is it possible to measure these measures, by combating unemployment, by training and qualifying workers, at no cost for social security? It's possible, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Do not look to the side or down, because this is the question that the Portuguese ask: is it possible? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u214	In view of this, the CDS responds: it is possible, it is desirable, it is necessary! But if this measure is not going forward—as, apparently by the interventions we have unfortunately heard here, it will not — the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party are against this, which many Portuguese want and which could reach and do not achieve, because the left, which today is clearly radical and insensitive to the desire of the workers, did not want to follow this proposal of the CDS-PP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u215	The Portuguese, who often go home and have e-mails and messages from customers and employees of the company and who often find it difficult to disconnect from their relationship with work, ask whether it is possible or not to consider in labour law a right to be disconnected. It is possible and desirable. The CDS presented proposals to think about these Portuguese, but unfortunately the left, which is now radical, is not available for this proposal either.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u216	Hello, hello, hello! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u217	Is it possible or not to view the renewal of social consultation, promoting what was agreed in 2014, making an assessment that has to be good in relation to the data we have? Is it possible or not? It is possible, but not with this majority which supports this government, which is insensitive, closed and does not want any kind of contribution that does not come from the radicality that today is this left, that is not by the Portuguese side, but that has to cook the understandings they want to maintain power. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the CDS brought here was not even wanting it to be another embarrassment to this majority. We live one more day in Parliament today: when the PS speaks, the PCP and the Left Block do not ask questions; when they are talking, the PS does not talk to them either. They seem to be very upset whenever they talk about labour legislation, they have great difficulty and reveal this in this House. That's not what we wanted to bring, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is a matter for us to understand. You understand, speak, settle, I believe that this is of little interest to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u218	That's why you're wasting time!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u219	But one thing is certain: the CDS, being in opposition and being responsible, does not enter the petition of the Left Block and the PCP, which clearly wants to achieve social consultation. We do not do this because, for us, social consultation is a place where workers, employers and those who really have to be involved in work change projects are represented. That is not what we do, we are in favour of social consultation. That is why we make a contribution by adding subjects to social consultation, but of course we will not give up our place of assessment and we will naturally, after this process of social consultation, take our decisions and vote as we wish. One thing is right, and the Socialist Party must be aware of it: the Socialist Party cannot rely on a left that is against social consultation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u220	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u221	... but then don't look at this bench when it's time to evaluate whatever it is that's going to negotiate in social consultation, knowing well that you can't count on them. You only have to count on the Socialist Party. They solve this problem, which concerns the Portuguese and we regret that the Socialist Party has dealt with so irresponsibly. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u222	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the second item on our agenda, which is the assessment of Bill No 60 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary housing support for all families affected by the August 2016 fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ). For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year after the fires that claimed lives and destroyed houses on Madeira Island, there has not yet been a single state tote for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of homes. In the face of this catastrophe and under normal circumstances, we would not have the discussion of this initiative, which provides for the creation of an exception scheme to cover all families affected, regardless of their incomes, because, under normal circumstances, this matter would already be resolved. But he's not. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I repeat, the situation is not yet resolved, because, a year later, the State's support has not yet reached the region so that families can return and rebuild their homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u224	Madam Member, I would like to ask you to take a break. I wanted to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are in favour of being properly accommodated, so that the speech of the honourable Member may be heard in due respect. I thank everyone and everyone. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u225	I repeat, a year later, the situation has not yet been resolved, and the support of the State for the reconstruction of the houses and for families to return has not yet arrived. One year later, 30 % of the affected continue to receive support and it was due to the situation that the Legislative Assembly, with its own power and legitimacy, decided to create this mechanism of exception, by law, of the Assembly of the Republic. This initiative did not raise any major doubts in the regional Parliament and brought together a broad consensus. This initiative did not vote against any of the regional political forces, which are also represented in this Parliament. And because the Members of the Legislative Assembly considered this to be an absolutely necessary and urgent instrument, we believe that this initiative will continue to have the agreement of all party forces in this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u226	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I must confess that for a short time I thought there was seriousness and sense of responsibility on the part of the PSD, in particular the Madeira PSD, on this matter. Contrary to what I have heard here, it seems that it is also the knowledge of the Madeira PSD and of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa which are agreed with the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic 80 % of all the support needed to respond to those who have been harmed by the fires. Repeat: 80%! These agreements are closed, signed, and, with regard to housing, there is an agreement concluded on 19 December 2016, with an eligible expenditure of EUR 15, 5 million, and are already provided for in the State Budget, EUR 5 million, whose transfer to the regional budget has already been given by the Ministry of Finance. But more: this agreement concluded between the PSD Government of Madeira and the Government of the Republic provided that such implementation was made between 2017 and 2019. So it's natural that it's not all closed. But as far as housing is concerned, I would also like to remind you that, of the approximately 116 houses designated as being the support target of the Regional Government, only 27 were nominated by the Regional Government, i.e. 23%. It is up to the Regional Government to explain why it took so long to bring the information to the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana) on this subject. But more: in relation to the 30 % left out of these support, I remember that, after the agreement of 19 December, the Government of the Republic sent a letter to the Regional Government, which basically says: « Any expenditure not elected to PROHABITA ( Financing Programme for Access to Housing) referred to in that Agreement shall be borne by additional funds to be entered in the State budget so that no affected family is excluded from support ». Moreover, this letter resulted in a government resolution in January 2017. In other words, in January 2017, this matter which the honourable Member referred to had already been resolved. Four months have passed and the honourable Member has not yet realized that the Regional Government has already settled this subject with transfers from the State budget and what the resolution says is very simple: considering that an agreement has been concluded, considering that 30 % are outside, then, the Regional Government regulates this matter and ensures that the State budget sends almost EUR 2 million to the regional budget to finance this issue. That is, everything that's going on here is a political chicana made by the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u228	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Left Block, first of all there is solidarity with the victims of the disaster that fell on the city of Funchal, in August last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u231	Solidarity cannot be lacking when human lives are lost and many families have lost their homes. This initiative responds to this need for solidarity. But solidarity has been expressed by the Republic since the first hour, particularly with the presence of the rulers on the ground and support in the fight against fires with human and material resources, despite the reluctance of the President of the Regional Government to accept that aid—after all, he said, while the fires set the centre of Funchal. What is not understood is the political use of the disaster situation for political blackmail and the tone of the intervention of Mrs Sara Madruga of the PSD, in order to use the suffering of people and increase her anxiety, raise doubts and the threat that they will not have to support the recovery of their homes, saying that the blame is for Lisbon, as if the Regional Government, the first government body itself, had no responsibilities. They have been spreading these doubts when there was already a compromise — as has already been mentioned here, and very well — recognised by the Government through the Resolution published in January, and they have been riding this lie for weeks, saying that there was no money. But at the same time, there was money to continue the works in the stadiums, for the houses of the people, the armed arms of the PSD, to make electoral propaganda, to throw down the banks in useless works that destroy centenary heritage, to complete the megalomanies that Jardim left unfinished, that is, to feed the concrete lobby. There is no money for what is fundamental, but for what is accessory there is always money in Madeira. The Regional Government was not at the height of the situation and there is a mark of a certain boyotic from the very first moment: the denial of reality, the gravity of the situation, saying that it was all controlled, the desire to appear in the photographs, the rocambolish episode of keeping a group of families in the barracks where they were temporarily housed, when their houses were already fit to receive them back, only to the next day will they appear in the photograph next to the President of the Republic. But what matters now is what is being done in terms of prevention. The forest scaffolding body that was promised was abandoned because it would cost EUR 4 million a year and there is no money, but for football there is money. With regard to the investment in reforestation with native plants, the fight against infestants, the removal of the rocks from the shorebeds, landfills in risk areas, forest planning, what is being done? Nothing! There is no need for prevention because, when there are losses, Lisbon pays and the regional government does not have to worry about caring for the future of people. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u232	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us refer to exactly what is proposed, what is contained in this proposal for a law submitted by the Regional Legislative Assembly to the Assembly of the Republic, and let us leave for the region the debate that is of the region, and which is perfectly legitimate, as is evident. I wanted to say that we see this bill with good eye. in fact, knowing the contours of the disaster that fell on families who lost their homes when the severe fires struck the high part of the city of Funchal, we understand that the support that these families need to be able to rebuild their homes should not be denied, taking into account, of course, not only the costs of rebuilding these homes but also the burdens that have resulted from these families being evicted and having to continue, of course, honoring their commitments, their personal and family expenses. Therefore, all support should be provided to them. In fact, it is not understandable that the threshold provided for the support of Pro Habitat, a household income of € 1500, is imposed as a limit for this purpose. To a family with a income of 1500 € but who has lost their home, obviously, should not be denied support so that they can rebuild their home and thus restore their life. We therefore believe that the proposal which is brought here to the Assembly of the Republic by the Legislative Assembly of the Region is fully justified. It has already been mentioned that there will be an agreement between the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic for this problem to be solved. We believe that there is such an agreement, but we also believe that this does not prejudice the fact that the Assembly of the Republic approves this bill and that, in the context of the debate on the subject - obviously, in dialogue with the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Government of the Republic - whether or not things are going and the necessary legislative provisions are being made so that, in fact, this agreement will go forward, if it aims, as we believe, to solve, in fact, people's problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u235	Obviously, what moves us is not that the issue of fires is used as a weapon of political bombing against each other. The only thing that moves us is that the families who had this very serious problem see their problem solved. That is our commitment, either in the Autonomous Region of Madeira or here in the Assembly of the Republic. in this sense, we will not deny support for this bill, which, in fact, has had broad support in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in which the Members of the CFP represented there voted in favour. That is the sense of vote we also have here, in the Assembly of the Republic, and we express our commitment to ensure that the problem of these families is effectively solved, with the necessary support. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u236	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year after the terrible scourge that has hit Madeira and the fires that have caused considerable personal and property damage, this debate must be done—as Mr.António Filipe has just done, say in passing—with a sense of responsibility, with the notion that we are talking about people who have lost nothing, or very little, in the face of that same scourge. Therefore, more than entering into a logic of regional or national guilt, more than entering here, on the continent, in a kind of debate that can and should be done in the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira, more than taking advantage of to carry out electoral campaign—which is legitimate, of course—for the elections that are approaching, it is important to discuss what we are actually discussing, which is the bill. And what is it that this bill — which, moreover, deserved the support of the CDS in Madeira and which, therefore, will deserve the support of the CDS in this House — does it say? What this bill says is to strengthen support for this reconstruction, particularly for those who have not yet had any support. I have heard here with some satisfaction that 80 % of the people who have been left with nothing have already received support, but one year later I confess that, being these 80 % important, of course, it is surprising, I would say more, it does not stop being embarrassing to all of us that 20 % have not yet received any support. It is in this sense that this proposal will, precisely in order to allow such support for this reconstruction, in particular by removing limits from the point of view of the remuneration of the family member, which we believe, in fact, to be totally excessive. So, as was also said here, if there is agreement between the Government and the Regional Government, great. But does this mean that the Assembly of the Republic discharges its responsibilities, in particular its responsibility to monitor, strengthen and monitor? Don't! And that is why the CDS will vote favourably, I repeat, as you did in Madeira. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u238	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to stress that the Socialist Party does not oppose this proposal but, having agreed between the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government in December 2016 and having spent almost six months—of course, the proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is prior to this agreement— seems to me that it would be of greater good sense... [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u240	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u241	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, it seems to me that it would be more appropriate for the Madeirans to have an agreement in this House so that this process could be discussed in the field of expertise and dealt with appropriately. However, it seems clear to me that there is a misuse — from our point of view — of this situation that harms the Macedonians, particularly those who have been affected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u242	To conclude this debate, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are limits to demagogy and indecency. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you can say what you want, you can talk about the numbers you want, the truth is that, a year later, no money has yet arrived for housing in Madeira. [[PSD applause.]] This matter is not settled and that is why the will expressed here is not the will of the Government, it is the will of the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, that which had the favourable votes of the majority of the parties, including the Left Block. But it seems that the Members of Madeira, when they arrive in Lisbon, make the table of autonomy and their institutions and take advantage of the opportunity to make politicism. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, it is good to say that a lot of the money that has arrived so far in Madeira, curiously, has gone to the Funchal City Hall — EUR 3 million — and we still don't know what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u244	But isn't Funchal in Madeira? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u245	But in advance, I would say, Mr. Carlos Pereira, that I understand your discomfort. Mr. Carlos Pereira has the mania of the ads, he has the mania of the outdoors, he has the mania of the posters. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u246	There are those who do posters only for the campaign, but Mr Carlos Pereira does not resist putting posters "the wrong and the right" and then it goes wrong. He's had a bad time with the announcement of funding to the hospital, and now he's had a bad time with the fires and this poster. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a poster.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u247	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u248	This poster was placed last year but still not reached the money to support people affected by fires. That is why Mr. Carlos Pereira is forced to insist on this narrative that the situation is already resolved, because he said and announced in the letter that he was resolved, when, a year later, he is not yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u249	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u250	I'm done, Mr. President. Mr President, it would be good for you to acknowledge the mistake, rather than persisting in the lie, because a lie, despite being said 1001 times, is always a lie. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u251	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u252	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u253	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u254	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u255	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will send information to the various parliamentary groups on the two tenders approved by the Republic, amounting to EUR 9 million, in addition to the transfer authorization to the regional budget of EUR 5 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u256	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u257	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u258	To make an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u259	I had decided that the conclusion was in charge of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u260	PSD doesn't care!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u261	Aren't you? Oh, my God! That's recorded!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u262	So Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Except for this last speech by Mr Carlos Pereira, I believe that the debate has in fact been conducted with a lot of sense of state. Mr. Carlos Pereira, now in the process of questioning, comes to say that he will be aware of what he is going to do, allegedly. It is good to say, for those who are listening to me, particularly in Madeira, but also on the continent, that Mr Carlos Pereira has now announced what he was going to do, but he has already posted on an outsider what he says he has done and has not done. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a poster.]] I'm going to read: "We finance reconstruction. Together, we got it. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] 'We have succeeded together' and Mr Carlos Pereira is with his thumb raised. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u264	It's an outlaw! There's no decoration!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u265	Mr President, there is indeed no better example of what is going on with this majority: they speak, they speak, but I see them doing very little. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u266	Mrs. Members, if there is no silence in the Chamber, we cannot continue with the work. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members of the next item on the agenda, with no time allocated for discussion, Bill No. 421 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Parada do Bouro » in the municipality of Vieira do Minho, to « Parada de Bouro » ( PSD ). of the fourth point is scheduled, also without time allocated for discussion, draft resolution No 853 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2017 work programme (the European Committee on European Affairs ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 204 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members Ascenso Simões and Odete João, of PS, Cristovão Norte, of PSD, and Jorge Campos, of BE, making 208 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting No 326 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Maria Helena Rodrigues Sequeira Serras Gago ( PS ). Mrs Idália Serrão has the floor to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the motion for a resolution is as follows: « Born in Lisbon, in the parish of Socorro, died on May 30, Maria Helena Serras Gago, exactly two days after having celebrated its 74. the anniversary. A great and courageous woman died whose frontality, firmness and argúcia will greatly miss all those who do not believe in absolute truths and who, on the contrary, defend that the differences are healthy and enriching. at the age of 24 he graduated in Economics at the Higher Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences, followed by a postgraduate degree in Transport Economics by ACTIM, in 1971, in Paris, and a master's degree in European Studies at the University of Paris, in 1999. His professional course proved to be diverse, vibrant and even unexpected, marking the presence of Portuguese women in the sectors he devoted himself to. Between 1968 and 1997 and 2003 and 2010 he occupied several positions in the Directorate-General of the National Civil Aviation Institute, leading the negotiations of air agreements between Portugal and several countries of different continents: Europe, Africa, Central America and the Near and Far East. The end of this first period of collaboration was marked by his stay in Paris, where he corresponded to the agency Lusa, economic adviser of the Embassy of Portugal and also representative of Portugal in the European Space Agency ( ESA ). Their clear human and professional qualities could not stay away from intense civic and political participation. Helena Serras Gago took her enthusiasm and strength to the local plan, to the Municipal Assembly of Cascais, where she was a recognized and esteemed Member, also occupying the role of Secretary of the Bureau of the Municipal Assembly, as well as to the Bureau of Studies of the Socialist Party, to whom she offered her prestigious collaboration. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on June 9, 2017, expresses its regret at the death of Maria Helena Serras Gago and sends to his family and friends his most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u268	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] They are present in the family galleries of Maria Helena Serras Gago, to whom I personally extend my condolences. We turn to vote No 327 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of José Alberto Pires ( PCP ). I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the motion for a resolution is as follows: « José Alberto Pires died on June 4, at the age of 92. He was a technician and designer of machinery, an official of the Board of Emigration and later a parliamentary official — between May 1955 and February 1993 — having been responsible for the creation of the Centre for Public Relations and subsequently the Head of Division of Public Relations from 1971 until his retirement in 1993. He took part in the presidential campaign of Humberto Delgado, at which time he considered himself politically determined against the regime. following its positioning and contacts with the Liberal Wing, he was subject to disciplinary investigation. He entered the office of Sá Carneiro during the two months of the first provisional government and then returned to his office as a parliamentary official. In December 1974, he joined the CFP, in what he considered to have been a natural step. He was a member of the Committee of Workers of the Assembly of the Republic and was recognized by the rigor and demands he placed in his work, but also by his ease, enjoying enormous prestige between Members and Workers of the Assembly of the Republic. It has supported the CFP Parliamentary Group since it retired until its last days and has in recent years assumed responsibility for disseminating parliamentary interventions on the CFP page on the Internet. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of José Alberto Pires and addresses his condolences to his family and to the PCP. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u270	Let us then proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] They are also present in the family galleries of our former colleague José Alberto Pires, to whom I personally extend my condolences. We proceed with vote No 329 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Jack O ` Neil ( PAN ). Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last June 2, he died at 94 years of age at his home in Santa Cruz, California, Jack O’ Neill, founder of the O’ Neill brand and a worldwide surf reference. He grew up in southern California and started doing body surfing at the age of seven. Already in San Francisco, he worked as a fisherman, among other activities. Whenever he could, he took refuge in the sea. Facing the cold sea of northern California, he experimented with several materials to build a fact that allowed him to face the low temperatures of the water, and ended up creating the first neoprene fact, allowing all surfers to enjoy the waves in the coldest times and thus revolutionizing the practice of the modality. in recent years, the surfer was dedicated to environmental causes, including the protection of the Californian coast. Jack O' Neil loved nature, the sea. He worked to safeguard the great white shark, threatened with extinction, and created with his son Tim in 1996 O' Neil Sea Odyssey, a marine and environmental education organization. at a time when we live the age of unconscious voracity and oriented towards profit and growth at any cost, we honor the life of a citizen who looked at the sea not as a mere resource for profitability but for its intrinsic value and who used as its influence to protect and preserve the sea and marine resources. at a time when we legislate and plan the unsustainable and when the economic model of extractivism extends to the seas and oceans through the exploitation of hydrocarbons, mining, industrial fisheries, which exterminates marine species and reserves, or aquaculture, one of the most destructive fishing industries in the world, we appreciate the contribution that Jack O ’ Neil leaves us, by example of simplicity and a life lived by deep respect for nature, which made him this legendary entrepreneur. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, marks its death, transmitting to its family, to its friends, to the surf world and to all those who defend the planet most painfully. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u272	We shall now proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] We then proceed to vote No 333 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning and regrets the attacks of London and Tehran ( President of RA, CDS-PP, PSD, BE, PCP, The Greens, PS and PAN ). I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Terrorism again attacked in the capital of the United Kingdom last Saturday night a few days before yesterday's elections. The attacks in London Bridge and Borough Market victimized eight people and injured 48 others last Saturday night. On Wednesday it was Iran's turn to be hit by Daesh's terrorism, with attacks inside Parliament and with the Khomeini Mausoleum, which made 13 dead and at least 46 wounded. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deepest condemnation of the attacks and conveys its greatest significance to the families of the victims, the authorities of the United Kingdom and Iran and their peoples. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u274	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 325/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulating the centenary of Almanaque Campoez ( PSD ). Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Almanaque Camponez was first published in 1917 by Manuel Joaquim de Andrade, owner of Typography and Bookstore Andrade ( one of the oldest of the Azores ), then located on the right street of the city of Angra do Heroism. Typography and Bookstore Andrade was, for years, the meeting point of English intellectuals, assuming its owner the role of editor, as happened with Almanaque Camponez and with other books, notably poetry, of the authorship of poets such as Vitorino Nemésio and Emanuel Félix, among others. Almanaque Camponez was the most emblematic project out of Andrade Typography, coming to our day, for 100 years, without any interruption, although, with the closure of the Typography, in 1984, it became printed in the Graphs of Angra. With the modernization of the equipment, Almanaque Camponez became composed and printed using the new techniques, but maintaining the same format and graphic apparatus. These are the formative, informative, sociocultural and entertainment content that have ensured the continuity of Almanaque Camponez. The meteorological information that, over the year, advises its consultants about the state of time and advises farmers about seed and crops. It is noted that in times of almost general iliteracy in the Azores, Almanaque Camponez was one of the few publications that aroused interest in reading. Thus, it is not surprising that you have known traces of 9000 copies, distributed and sold on all islands of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, as well as in mainland Portugal, where over the years you have known and efemerized similar publications. It is also noted that, despite the distances, time zones and climate conditions, the Azorian communities in the United States of America and Canada continue to acquire, in considerable number, Almanac Camponez, probably as a process of maintaining roots and experiences that are still dear to them. by the persistence and success of Manuel Joaquim de Andrade in the publication of AlmanaqueCamponez, he was granted the insignia of Cavalleiro of the Order of Agricultural and Industrial Merit. After the death of Manuel Joaquim de Andrade, Almanaque Camponez began to be edited by his son Elvino Lonett Andrade, who followed his grandson Luís Lester Fagundes Andrade, and is currently responsible for his great-grandfather Luís Filipe de Matos Andrade, fulfilling this task. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the role played by Almanac Camponez as an element of training, information and socio-cultural in these 100 years of existence. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u276	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] On the same subject, we have vote No 332 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations for the 100 years of Almanaque do Camponez ( PS ), which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira. in this title it refers to "Almanaque do Camponez" and in the other it refers to "Almanaque Camponez". It's probably two Germans... Please, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In 1917, Manuel Joaquim de Andrade, owner of Typography and Bookstore Andrade, one of the oldest of the Azores, located in the city of Angra do Heroísmo, edited for the first time the Almanac do Camponez. throughout its 100 years of uninterrupted publication have been its formative, informative, socio-cultural and entertainment content that have ensured the continuity of Almanac do Camponez. The meteorological information that, throughout the year, advises its consultants about the state of time, advising farmers when the seeds and crops are also important. The Almanaque do Camponez was the most emblematic project that came out of the Andrade Typography, which, due to the closure, in 1984, began to be printed in the Graphs of Angra, maintaining, until today, the same formats and graphic apparatus. In times of almost general iliteracy in the Azores, it was one of the publications that aroused interest in reading, being known traces of 9000 copies distributed and sold on all the islands of the Azores, Madeira and the Portuguese continent. Diaspora communities living in the United States of America and Canada continue to acquire it, probably as a link link and a means of maintaining roots and experiences. The persistence and success of Manuel Joaquim de Andrade in the publication of Almanac led to his being granted the insignia of Cavalleiro of the Order of Agricultural and Industrial Merit. After his death, the guarantee of publication was assured by his son Elvino Lonett Andrade, followed by his grandson Luís Lester Fagundes Andrade, currently responsible for the great-grandfather Luís Filipe de Matos Andrade maintaining and fulfilling the publication of Almanaque do Camponez. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 8 June 2017, welcomes the 100 years of the uninterrupted publication of the Almanac of the Camponez. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u278	We shall now proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] So that no doubt remains, it is of course the same Almanac, which is called Almanac do Camponez. The following are votes 328 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Disengagement by the decision of the United States of America of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change ( CDS-PP, PSD and PS ), 330 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by the formal announcement of the departure from the Paris Climate Agreement ( PAN and PS ), 334 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the abandonment of the United States of America of the Paris Agreement ( PCP and PS ), 335 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the intention of the Trump Administration to delink the United States of America from the Paris Agreement ( BE and PS ), 337 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Disengagement by the United States of America of the Paris Agreement ( The Greens and PS ) and 331 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the formation of the United States Atlantic Alliance and the « We are Still In ( PAN and PS ). Having requested time for interventions, 2 minutes are allocated to each parliamentary group for this purpose. Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presented this conviction because it believes that it is a decision of administration of a particular State that has serious consequences at the international level. The issue underlying the Paris Climate Change Agreement, following the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, has an international consensus component which is the only way to combat externality, such as the result of pollution associated with greenhouse gas emissions, carbon emissions, and which can only be effectively combated if such a consultation takes place. It is of no use that one part of the world has a policy in this regard if another — and, in this case, another relevant part — does not have the same policy because of the weight of industry and emissions from the United States of America. That is why many States and many administrations, including Portuguese, had moderate positions to build a consensus. That is why for years this consensus was difficult and it was reasserted of fanaticisms that were detrimental to this progress. This progress has been achieved on a basis of trust and therefore it does not make sense for a State, now so soon thereafter, to frustrate that mutual trust which has been built up. That is why we believe that this decision by the American Administration is a wrong decision, that the consequences for the international order are negative and that this decision therefore deserves to be censured. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u280	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The breach of the Paris Agreement by Trump Administration is a declaration of war on the sustainability of human life on earth. It is a declaration of war on a future based on clean energy and 100 % renewables. It is a declaration of war to a new social and economic paradigm desired by millions of citizens and supported by the scientific and international community. And in order to counter this declaration of fratricidal, genocide and ecocidal war, civil disobedience must be strengthened in all facets of everyday life. We need less consumption, less waste, more activism and more civic participation. We are part of this current of social transformation and strengthen the urgency of rejecting the extractive and productive cultural and economic paradigm, which everything quantifies and which everything attributes a price. As an American Indian proverb says: "When the last river dries, the last tree is cut and the last fish is fished, they will understand that money is not eaten. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u282	Mr Renato Sampaio of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies : Paris was the successful corollary at the end of decades of persistence of many States, including Portugal, which has always and at all times been on the front line in the fight against climate change. Not to continue this fight is to question the planet and the future of all of us. Mr Trump, in deciding to break the agreement that the United States had signed and ratified, sets a position of deep irresponsibility because the fight against climate change must be a fight against all of us and in which all States should be involved and take up their commitments. This is a position that demonstrates that the United States, with Mr Trump as President, is not a reliable ally, because they break a signed agreement that compromises the United States in what are the most priority policies we are facing today, because many factors are at stake: health, food security and disasters, and many of them are the consequences of climate change. It is, above all, a position that configures emerging egoisms, because it aims to defend, only and only, the polluting industries of the United States to the detriment of the preservation of the planet. So today, we believe that Mr Trump's strategy to abandon the Paris Agreement is a suicide strategy for the future of all of us and of future generations, including those of the United States. And, therefore, this conviction vote is signed by the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u284	I give the floor to Mr Jorge Duarte Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decision of the President of the United States of America to announce the withdrawal of the Paris Agreement is an appeal to the world, an appeal to the action of the various countries, an appeal to the action of citizens and global citizenship for a culture of affirmation of the fight against climate change, a culture of affirmation of the energy transition and the decision to respond to the urgency of climate change and what they impose. It also confirms a dangerous presidency: Donald Trump's presidency is the power project of a fossil elite, an oil lobby that has the negationism of climate change in the heart of his speech. The refusal and denial of the existence of climate change are the official discourse of the greatest global economic power and therefore this unilateralism and this affirmation of the oil industry's selfishness is the main feature of Trump's presidency, which we will have to face. The Paris targets were and are certainly insufficient to respond to the pace of changes that climate change imposes, the pace at which they need to be answered. But they certainly also correspond to a level of demand that the oil lobby is not willing to accept. That is why all countries and all governments have an obligation today to set an example and create a counter-responsive response, a counter-responsive demand and a counter-responsive commitment to the fight against climate change. We have recently voted here in Parliament for a proposal from the Left Block and the PAN which was intended to end and terminate the Portuguese soil concessions for the exploration of hydrocarbons in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u286	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u287	This proposal could not have happened, but it would have been a positive sign that all political forces could have given a deep commitment that what is on the ground, the reserves to be explored, should continue on the ground and should continue without being exploited. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u288	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: President Donald Trump announced at the beginning of this month the departure of the United States from the Paris Agreement. It did so unilaterally, based on two fallacies: the denial of the already visible consequences and impacts of climate change and the claim that the decision is in the best interests of the future of the United States of America, denying the advantages that a green economy based on innovation and clean technologies can bring to American society. Several states, companies and U.S. citizens have already come to the public to note the opposition to this measure by the President, forming a new informal climate alliance committed to the Paris commitments and rejecting the stance of non-compliance with commitments and discretionary reversals, so typical of fragile leaderships that need to demarcate from their predecessors in order to justify their political existence. Although previously announced, this position is still seen by all those who are committed to combating climate change as a major disappointment. The PSD undoubtedly condemns this position of the US President, although it does not align itself with the political use and pretext to attack a country, patented in parts of the texts of the votes presented here today. at a time when world challenges call all to take constructive positions and act, the Paris Agreement was a historic compromise. This is, therefore, the time to build, not the time to go back, not the time to lukewarm, not the time to hesitate. The United States, with this position, is on the wrong side of history. Portugal, which, between 2012 and 2015, years of final preparation of the Paris agreement, has played a leading role, and which, since it is of the European countries most exposed to the effects of climate change, has given the example and has demanded more ambition from its partners, should now, with Europe, give strength to the Agreement and refuse any backwardness in the pursuit of its objectives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u290	Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Paris Agreement, with worthy objectives, also has numerous inadequacies, leading to doubts and concerns. But the disengagement of the United States of America from the Paris Agreement does not aim to overcome these inadequacies, doubts and concerns. It aims, yes, to strengthen the position of the US Administration in promoting specific economic interests within the framework of imperialist conditions and competition, conditioning developing countries and treating them unequally in the face of developed countries, eliminating the responsibilities of the United States as a contributing country, and has contributed significantly to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere. There is an emphasis on the road to environmental marketing, particularly through the maintenance of the carbon market, which has proved ineffective in reducing emissions. The sale of CO2 licences only allows the most polluting countries — the richest and most developed — to be irresponsible for their own pollution, buying the right to pollute. The concept of emissions neutrality, wagered in CO2 sinks, risks being a mechanism that does not combat greenhouse gas emissions by shutting down the potential of destroying the native forest in developing countries by the action of the large multinationals. None of these concerns is considered by the U.S. Administration, which, on the contrary, seeks to insist on its position contrary to a logic of sustainable development and respect for the rights of developing countries. That is why the CFP believes that the decision to disengage the United States of America from the Paris Agreement should be politically condemned in this House of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u292	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The departure of the United States from the Paris Agreement is not a minor issue, because we are talking, nothing less, about the country that emits more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. If we look at the global level, China is the largest greenhouse gas emitter and the United States is the second largest emitter. however, per capita, the United States is the largest greenhouse gas emitters for the atmosphere. So this has a very particular meaning. We are talking about the only agreement that exists under the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change, which emerged from the Rio Conference in 1992, and which sets out rules and targets for countries to take the necessary internal measures to achieve this overall objective through the commitment. And we remember the fact that the United States has already been outside the Kyoto Protocol. Therefore, this exit of the Paris Agreement has a very relevant and worrying meaning. On the other hand, what Donald Trump ends up claiming for this exit, which is basically, in very synthetic terms, the defense of the United States itself, is an authentic ambush, because climate change is there, the people of the United States of America have suffered concretely the consequences of climate extremes and have not been few of the practical and concrete consequences for that country. Therefore, when it comes to the defence and security of the populations, it is certainly not through the exit of the Paris Agreement that it will come true. Of course, what the President of the United States of America wants — in our view, it is not to be admired, according to his own convictions — is to put the economy far above any line and direction of environmental protection and security of populations. Even to conclude, Mr President, the Greens' wish is that the signatory countries of the Paris Agreement continue this global struggle, which is to combat climate change. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u294	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote one by one. There was an attempt to vote them together, but it was not possible. Let us then vote on vote No 328 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the decision to delink the United States of America to the Paris Climate Change Agreement ( CDS-PP, PSD and PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] [[The President of the United States announced on 2 June 2017 that the US is coming out of the Paris Agreement and that, from that day onwards, all terms of that Agreement will cease to be applied. The Paris Agreement, adopted on 12 December 2015, is recognised as a historic framework since the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted in 1992. Thus, for the first time, a set of 195 countries committed themselves to the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in order to achieve zero emissions or at least a zero balance sheet, with the ultimate aim of trying to contain the rising temperature of the planet. This Agreement represents a paradigm shift in the development model, which should seek to implement sectoral policies aimed at encouraging the decarbonisation of the economy or, in the expression consensualized in the Paris Agreement, at ‘carbon neutrality’. Following the Paris Agreement, we have the best opportunity to promote a new process of reindustrialisation, based on promotion and investments in the green and low-carbon economy. In Paris, the USA committed itself to reducing its CO2 emissions from 26% to 28% by 2025, compared with the 2005 level. However, the decision to withdraw that country from the Agreement represents a regrettable step back which may compromise the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement and call into question an overall consensus achieved at cost, but essential and necessary, whose implementation depends on the specific policies of each country. In this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the decision of the US Administration to leave the Paris Agreement and calls for the fulfilment of the responsibilities assumed by all the acceding countries in order to enhance an effective policy of combating climate change.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u295	Let us now vote on vote No 330 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the formal announcement of the departure of the Paris Climate Agreement ( PAN and PS ) from the United States. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] [[On 1 June, the US presidency announced to the international community, by the voice of President Donald Trump, that the country would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, because, according to this, it is its "duty to protect America". This ideological blindness act, which runs counter to the vast majority of the scientific community and the international political consensus on the subject, is based on a possible renegotiation of the Agreement in order to meet the needs of the American economy. Contrary to what is defended rhetorically, the US economy will not be reinvigorated either by the military, highly polluting and resource-consuming industry sector or by arms marketing to third countries, as seen by the arms agreement signed with Saudi Arabia in the recent Middle East president's periployment, much less by the oil industry, with the possibility of expanding the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Arctic and with the continuity of highly polluting projects and in shock with the fundamental human rights of populations such as Keystone XL and Dakota. In fact, all the data contradict the arguments used by Trump. At present, for example, the employability of the so-called clean energy only in California exceeds 10 times the jobs provided by the coal industry throughout the US. It should be noted that the US is part of an almost non-existent list of countries that have not signed the Agreement. In addition, the Vatican, which despite the validity of the Agreement did not ratify it on bureaucratic matters, Syria, which is engaged in an internal military conflict, and Nicaragua, which considers the Agreement to be unambitious. This radical, obtuse and blind ideology, which breaks scientific assumptions, rejects the consensus of the international community and overcomes the paradigm of productionism and extractivism, condemns the planet at a real age of darkness and irresponsibly brings into question the very survival of the human species. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, reaffirms its commitment to the Paris Agreement, rejecting any negotiation thereof and condemning in parallel the unilateral decision of the US Presidency to abandon the Paris Climate Agreement.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u296	The vote on vote No 334 / XIII ( 2 ) followed. ( a ) — Condemning the abandonment of the United States of America of the Paris Agreement ( PCP and PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP, the PSD votes and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[The Paris Agreement, adopted in December 2015, at the 21st Conference of the United Nations Parties to Climate Change, sets ambitious objectives for intervention in the protection of the environment worldwide, proposing to achieve them by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The objectives set out in the Paris Agreement are worthy, but the mechanisms and instruments proposed to achieve them raise doubts and concerns. On the one hand, they are based on an environmental marketing perspective based on the carbon market which has already proved to be ineffective in reducing CO2 emissions and which introduces greater inequalities between developed and developing countries. On the other hand, the record of emissions neutrality — CO2 sinks — may lead to the disappearance of native forests. The US has been intervening to condition developing countries. Even in the Paris Agreement this attitude is present with the implementation of a system that deals equally with developed and developing countries. Since the beginning, the US has intervened in the elimination of its responsibilities as a contributing country, and it contributes to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere, seeking to level responsibilities and pay the same bill as the so-called developing countries. Regardless of the inadequacies of the Paris Agreement, the President of the United States' public announcement of his disengagement is still worthy of political condemnation, considering that this decision does not aim to overcome these inadequacies, but confirms the US Administration's position in promoting specific economic interests in the context of inter-imperialist contradictions and competition. The Assembly of the Republic condemns the position taken by the President of the United States of America concerning the disengagement of the Paris Agreement.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u297	We now vote on vote No 335 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the Trump Administration's intention to delink the United States of America from the Paris Agreement ( BE and PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The United States of America confirmed last week the intention to break the Paris Agreement. This decision confirms the position of the denial of climate change taken by Donald Trump since the election campaign, when he promised, in addition to this measure, to eliminate the contribution to the United Nations funds to combat climate change and to close the US Environmental Protection Agency. The Paris Agreement was signed in 2015, and was signed by 195 countries. The difficulties in achieving its objectives, limited to the beginning of the real needs to combat climate change, have been apparent from the outset: not only have some of the acceding States refused to ratify the agreement, as it has been well known that the European Parliament has been unable to adopt legislation with a view to achieving the commitments made in Paris. Donald Trump justified this decision with the need to ‘protect the United States and its citizens’, which actually means the protection of extractive industries and their shareholders to the detriment of climate and the planet. This is a deeply ideological decision that contradicts the academic consensus and the timid steps taken by States and international institutions in recent decades. The decision to break the Paris Agreement thus confirms Donald Trump's presidency as a global danger. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns Donald Trump's decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement, reaffirming its commitment to a policy that prioritizes climate and the planet.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u298	We shall then vote on vote No 337 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Disengagement by the United States of America of the Paris Agreement ( The Greens and PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: The President of the United States of America formally communicated the US exit from the Paris Agreement, which reflects the negotiations of almost all countries in the world to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with a view to combating the phenomenon of climate change. This decision by the US Administration is absolutely reprehensible, given that it means the resignation of one of the largest greenhouse gas emitters — representing a total of about 18% of world emissions — of the goal of combating and mitigating global warming. It should be noted that the United States is even, per capita, the world's largest issuer. The US therefore seeks to call into question the only agreement that exists worldwide which sets ways and means to tackle global climate change within the framework of the Framework Convention on Climate Change, adopted at the Rio Conference in 1992. Climate change is an undeniable reality that has been evidenced at various points on the planet and that has affected the US on a large scale, with phenomena of highly threatening and dramatic climate extremes for the North American population, such as, for example, rendered, filled, etc. That is the threat and the tragedy that President Donald Trump ends up bound when he announced to disengage himself from the Paris Agreement. What is expected is that the signatories to the Paris Agreement will continue their work to achieve the objectives they have set. It is a battle that cannot be lost. The Assembly of the Republic condemns the decision announced by the President of the United States of America concerning the disengagement of the Paris Agreement.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u299	We shall vote on vote No 331 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the formation of the United States Climate Alliance and the « We are Still In » ( PAN and PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP and the CFP.]] [[Following the unilateral and ideologically oriented decision of the presidency of the United States of America, led by Donald John Trump, to initiate the exit process of the Paris Treaty, a democratic metamorphosis occurred in the country operated by citizens and States, aiming to respect and comply with the resolutions of the International Climate Agreement. This initiative is called the United States Climate Alliance and consists of 13 states, including California, leader in the energy revolution in renewable technologies, New York, the country's commercial and financial centre, and Hawaii, which has already signed legislation to meet the climate agreement. These States, which represent more than 200 cities and around 16% of the country’s total CO2 emissions — 2014 data — add a broader coalition, called ‘We are Still In’, composed of companies such as Apple, Google, Amazon and Tesla, entrepreneurs, governors and civil society personalities. Bilaterally, this initiative extended beyond borders, counting on the Chinese ministry of science and technology as a partner, in unprecedented collaboration, thus filling the political void caused by Washington. This mobilization, which aims to achieve the Paris goals, demonstrates that the role of the scientific community, the business sector, non-governmental organizations and millions of American citizens is a living and dynamic force in the country. In short, it is realized that the non-violent civil disobedience of these citizens, of these companies, of this alliance and of this coalition, aimed at opposing decisions often unilateral and centralized, demonstrates that it is possible to walk together to a sustainable planet that benefits all the species that inhabit it. Meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the emergence of the United States Climate Alliance and the We Are Still In, as well as its central role in linking these citizens, companies and states to the Paris Climate Agreement.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u300	We now turn to vote No 336 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — From greeting Manuel Alegre to the award of the Camões Prize ( President of RA, BE, PSD, CDS-PP, PS, PAN, The Greens and PCP ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Salvador Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u301	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Manuel Alegre is the winner of the 2017 Camões Prize, precisely in the year in which his Canto and the Arms are 50 years old. The award of the most relevant award for Portuguese-language authors is a major name for Manuel Alegre. Great essayist and novelist, his poetic work is already part, by law, of Portuguese cultural heritage, so often celebrated in the voice of numerous names of national music. Manuel Alegre's voice is the voice of freedom, from Algiers and the anti-fascist struggle, passing through the Constituent to the fights of democracy, where he always said « present». In Manuel Alegre, culture, citizenship and politics unite in a coherence of freedom, creativity and patriotism. The Assembly of the Republic also welcomes in Manuel Alegre its former deputy, former Vice-President, who continues to deserve the recognition and admiration of all the benches. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Honorary Republic, thus the journey of Manuel Alegre at the time when it receives literary recognition. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u302	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 16 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the Assembly of the Republic ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 186 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Revoking the adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms, in group and by collective regulation, by proceeding with 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 187 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the application to public servants of the adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms by 3. the amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Labour Act on Public Functions ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Then we will generally vote on Bill No. 211 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok individual adaptability mechanisms and the individual hourly bank, with effect from 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 903 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation, the debate on the implementation of the leave without extraordinary remuneration, and the evaluation and deepening of the Cheque-Training measure ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 904 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, within the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, a debate with a view to recognizing and implementing the right to lay-off of workers and to include new situations which may be admissible for the exercise of telework, as well as regulating the exercise of telework in public service ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 905 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate a debate at the social level with a view to improving collective bargaining, in particular to resume the 2014 conciliation agreement, which provides for the reduction of expiry and survival of collective labour contracts ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We are now voting, in general, on Bill No 60 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary housing support for all families affected by the August 2016 fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, vote against PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u303	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u304	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u305	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u306	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u307	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u308	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u309	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u310	Mrs. Members, this diploma is down to 11. the Commission. We will move on to the general vote, in general, on the overall speciality and finality of Bill No. 421 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Parada do Bouro » in the municipality of Vieira do Minho, to « Parada de Bouro » ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 853 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2017 work programme (the European Committee on European Affairs ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on draft resolution No 650 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a )...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u311	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u312	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u313	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau about the initiative we are now going to vote on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u314	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u315	Mr President, it is to be clear that the next vote will be on the text that came out of the Commission. To avoid doubts about this matter, as we had not been properly clarified, we did the distribution of the text a few minutes ago. To make it clear to all the banks, what we are going to vote on is the text that came out of the debate in the Commission, in which all the banks participated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-09.u316	Mr. Deputies, I think it's clear to everyone. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 650 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the functioning of a National Council for Food and Nutrition Safety ( the text and initial title have been replaced at the request of the author ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 856 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to promote the production of milk from small ruminants ( PCP ). I note that the PS and the NAP request a separate vote from point 4. So let us start by voting on point 4. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Let us vote on points 1 to 3, 5 and 6. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 863 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the milk of small ruminants ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 864 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures that value the milk of small ruminants and promote the improvement of the income of milk and cheese producers ( BE ). The PS and the NAP requested the breakdown of the points by voting first on point 3, following points 2 and 5, point 8 and finally the other points. It is very complex this question of little ruminants! So let us start by voting on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us vote on points 2 and 5. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP were adopted.]] The vote on point 8 shall follow. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and with abstentions from PS, CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on points 1, 4, 6 and 7. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PAN and the PSD abstained.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on the drafts of lein.o 326 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students assigning to parents the same set of rights granted to pregnant women and mothers ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 ) ( BE), 423 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August ) ( PCP ) and 424 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 laying down social support measures for mothers and parents students ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic, Innovation and Public Works on the request for the adoption of the urgent procedure relating to the proposal for a law No 82 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 134 / 2015 of 24 July governing the allocation of social mobility allowance to beneficiary citizens within the framework of air and maritime services between the Continent and the Autonomous Region of Madeira and between it and the Autonomous Region of Azores, pursuing social and territorial cohesion objectives ( ALRAM ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to an end. It should not be forgotten, because this is not the case, that the next plenary meeting will take place on Monday 12, from 15 a.m. on the following agenda : from point one, there is a PSD marking for an up-to-date debate under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic on the withdrawal of three territories from the black offshore list. of point two, there is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 137 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens the rights of workers ( CFP ) and 330 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers (12 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). The joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 435/ XIII ( 2 ) is followed in point three. ( a ) — An integrated strategy for wine experimentation, research and innovation in the Demarcada do Douro region ( PSD ) and 637 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strategy for research and innovation in the agri-food sector ( PSD ). of point four, we will generally have the joint assessment of the projects of lein.os 544 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Nationality Act, adopted by Law No. 31 / 87 of 3 October, amended by Law No. 25 / 94 of 19 August, by Decree-Law No. 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December, and by Organic Laws No. 1 / 2004 of 15 January, No. 2 / 2006 of 17 April, No. 1 / 2013 of 29 July, No. 8 / 2015 of 22 June, and No. 9 / 2015 of 29 July ( PS ) and 428 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Nineth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ) ( PCP ). of point five, the general assessment of the projects of lein.os 477 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the public control of the technical management activity of the National Electric System by separating its exploitation activity from the national electricity network ( BE) and 482 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the free option of domestic electricity consumers by the regulated tariff regime by amending Decree-Law No 75 / 2012 of 26 January ( CFP ), together with draft resolution No 780 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by eliminating the over-cost of investment in energy networks and by public control of the REN ( CFP ). Finally, of point six, the assessment of draft resolution No 860 / XIII ( 2 ) is presented. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to prevent and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime ( CDS-PP ). We are thus at the end of the sitting. I wish everyone a good weekend and a good June 10! The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 11 minutes.]]
