ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get to the agenda, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, draft resolutions Nos 942/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by preserving the ruins of the ancient Roman city of Balsa ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 943 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — the construction of the Guadiana International Bridge between Alcoutim and Sanlúcar ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 944 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — due to the urgent review of the intention to invest in railway infrastructures of the 2020 Railway Plan, including again the railway connection to the Faro Airport in the national rail investment priorities ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 945 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Requalification of the basic and secondary school Anselmo de Andrade in Almada ( BE ), which falls to 8. Commission, 946 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Requalification of the Fernão Mendes Pinto High School in Almada ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 947 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the creation of a maximum price system for gas ( BE ) bottles, which falls to 6. the Commission, 948 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to support the fisheries and sustainable management of national maritime resources ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 949 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support for UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ), which drops to 2. the Commission, 950 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Access of residents of neighborhoods or centres of precarious housing to essential services and goods ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 951 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the establishment of a National Environmental Security Force ( NEST ) in Portugal ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, with connection to 1. a and 7. a Commission, 952 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish the order setting out the date of the establishment of the cat identification obligation in accordance with Article 6 ( 3 ). the Decree-Law No 313 / 2003 of 17 December ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 953 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions ( RA President ). For draft resolution No 857 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Moved by the President of the Republic to St. Petersburg ( President of the HR ), a message was received from Mr. President of the Republic informing that the visit was not effective, given the national tragedy in Pedrogão Grande.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u3	Mrs. Members, today's agenda consists of a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). that of the Rules of Procedure, which means that the initiative of questions is of the parliamentary groups. The order of interventions is as follows: PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN. You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, this 15-year debate takes place for the first time after the tragedies, because there were several that happened, with the fires around Pedrogão Grande. The Assembly of the Republic has already had the opportunity to express its regret to the families of the victims throughout the tragedy. then, as now, we say that this tragedy had no precedent in all our democratic memory. Unfortunately, we are used to fighting fires, but in so many years there has never been a tragedy with this dimension and, above all, with the civilian fatalities it has recorded. This means, therefore, that it is essential that there is a real understanding of everything that has happened, in order to prevent the perception that there is a push game, that there is no complete clarification of responsibilities, whether of a technical, operational or political nature. And I think it is very important that the generality of the parliamentary groups — not all — and also the government had announced that this expertise about what happened there can be done through an independent body, that is, an instance that has independence over the authorities involved in the fight against fires. I believe that this is essential, although it does not dispense with the clearance of other circumstances, so that an informed debate can be held later. For this reason, we have come to say very soberly that there is a time for political or technical accountability—and it will certainly be done—but first, it is essential to find out exactly what has happened in this fire, and not what has happened in the past 30 or 40 years. Having said this, I think it is very important to leave two quick messages. The first to say that, with humility and scrupulity, no one can claim that several governments, various administrations cannot, directly or indirectly, have responsibility in the situation that has been experienced. I believe that there will be no person who, with scrupulously, says that, between private and public, no one can, over these years, have a share of responsibility in what has happened. But that cannot be used to draw the conclusion that, therefore, responsibility rests with everyone and thus is nobody's. Let it be very clear that, in the way in which responsibilities must be made, they cannot be diffused, nor can they be derived from such things. The second message has to do with the issue of politicization. The idea that these matters cannot be politicized is often found in the public debate. Of course, I can only attribute this to a misconception of politicization. One thing is to use, in a party way, matters which must be reserved for politics in the noble sense of the term; another thing is to say that we cannot politically discuss a situation involving a great human tragedy. If politics does not serve to discuss tragedies that have consequences of this dimension, then politics is useless. Politics has just to serve so that we can all have a serious discussion on this matter as seriously as possible. And so, yes, we need to talk about the consequences. Yes, it is necessary to identify what happened and then to discuss whether what happened was or was not avoidable; if it was avoidable, to whom it is responsible for not avoiding it; and out there. And these responsibilities can be for many people and can have homogeneous consequences or not. Having made these two comments, I would like to note that it is exceptional that we have witnessed an expression of solidarity of civil society as important as that which we have witnessed since the beginning. And I believe that the fact that the government itself has recently decided that the management of the fund that will manage the contributions and donations that civil society has brought to the victims, to the families of the victims and to these areas will be done with the collaboration of the authorities and with the mercy is an important sign of recognition of the role that these institutions, among other civil society institutions, have had since the first hour. But it is also important to say that, from the first hour, there are obviously State failures. I insist that the State failures are independent at this time of the verification of whether or not this accident was preventable and whether or not to blame someone for it. The state fails when so many people die in the circumstances in which they died. That seems clear to me. And it should be very important that the state should also be quick to make reparation for these deaths. Now, on Monday, I had the opportunity to recall that there were instruments that other governments have already used in order to be able to make this repair of objective responsibility that the State has. Several governments, either by resolution of the Council of Ministers or by decree-law, have set up mechanisms to compensate the families of the victims who died on national roads, and it is not only the one who concentrated the largest number of accidents. in this measure, it was very important — and that was the question I wanted to ask Mr Prime Minister — whether or not the Government is available to quickly overcome this gap and adopt such a mechanism. Parliament can, of course, do so, but the legislative time for implementing such a process is more time-consuming. It was very important that there was a ready response from the Government in this area. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister if he is available, since so far we have not had the echo of this proposal, in order to take the initiative to create a mechanism, which may be arbitral, may be based on the cooperation of other institutions, the Ombudsman or other bodies, so that the families of the fatal victims can be repaired as quickly as possible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u6	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, it is clear and indisputable and comforting of the national sentiment to witness the solidarity spirit with which the Portuguese society as a whole has certainly reacted to the greatest human tragedy we live in democratic Portugal. As you said, we have had, unfortunately, thousands of fires, but never with this dimension of human tragedy. That is why it is very important that we focus on what is priority at every moment. There was a time when the priority was to support those who fought the fire and help those who were victims of the fire. We are now, at a new moment, where the priority is to rebuild, respond to the needs of families and clarify everything to clarify, so that there is no doubt about any topic related to this human tragedy. Let's give priority to reconstruction. I have still had the opportunity, during the morning, to have a working session with several members of the Government and with the seven chamber presidents of the territories who were most directly victimized by these fires and where we were able to make the point of the situation of the exhaustive survey that is being done of the reconstruction needs, to check what is already being rebuilt, in relation to communications networks, of electricity supply, of floor replacement, and now what is lacking, in terms of municipal equipment, housing and other collective needs. We have also agreed with everyone that this territory must be the pilot territory in order to make the two fundamental reforms that the country needs to do if it wants to ensure the sustainability of its entire territory, the forestry restructuring and the economic revitalization of the interior. In all the chamber presidents, their party and the Socialist Party, I have found an equal will, a strategy to develop, and we already have a new working meeting marked for the next day 19. Then there is the other front, for which it is necessary to clarify everything. First of all, I think it is essential that we do not push responsibilities or excuses. If we want to hurry, let's hurry. And, therefore, when the PPD / PSD proposed that there should be an independent technical committee, to be set up within this House, I immediately understood that this should be the case. But I also want to make it clear that I did it in good faith, and not, as I heard a commentator say, as a way to postpone the clarification that needs to be obtained. I think we are all in good faith and we all want to get the most out of it. Secondly, of course, the government does not stop doing what it has to do. I myself, on Monday last week, put to the National Civil Protection Authority, the Republican National Guard and the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ( IPMA ) three issues that seem central to me. The response raised by the Republican National Guard and the response of the National Civil Protection Authority implied that there were clearly other matters to be resolved, in particular on the functioning of the communications system. I then asked the Minister of Internal Administration, through the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal ) and the Secretariat-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration, to obtain further clarifications on this matter and the Minister, still yesterday, in view of the non-matched responses of the various entities, asked an associated laboratory, the Telecommunications Institute, to conduct a comprehensive audit of the operation of the SIRESP network so that we can all know how it works, what problems it has and what problems it has, too, in this particular case. in the same way, I am still waiting for the IPMA to produce the final report it announced to be developing, to clarify whether there was any especially abnormal weather at that time and in that location that it could have contributed to having a consequence in this fire clearly distinct from what has happened in all other fires. in the same way, I hope that the Republican National Guard will be able to conclude its internal report. The Minister of Internal Administration also asked the Inspectorate General of Internal Administration yesterday to investigate the work of the Secretariat-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration, which is the managing entity of the SIRESP network — the SIRESP is the operator, but the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration is the manager. We are all, of course, also waiting for the establishment in this House of an independent technical committee and the criminal investigation which, competently, the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently running. I believe that it is clear that there are responsibilities of the State, that the State must assume them. At the time of the collapse of the Entreos-Rios bridge, when I was Minister of Justice, a situation of objective responsibility was clear, then an own scheme was set up, which involved the Order of Advocates and then the Ombudsman and which allowed, in about a year, to compensate the whole of the victims' families—it was a little more, because for one of the families there was a parental process that dragged the situation. But with regard to this situation, if and when it is confirmed that there is an objective responsibility of the State, I will have no doubt in using the same expatriate scheme as we have previously adopted, without forcing families to have to track the baldness of normal processes. I have always been a defender of extrajudicial mechanisms and will also be a defender of extrajudicial mechanisms in this situation, if that is the case. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u7	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have diverged somewhat in the assessment of objective responsibility, I believe there is not much doubt that this objective responsibility exists. The State may or may not have the right to return to the concessionaire who maintains some of those routes — this is a matter which the State will have to consider later — but it seems very obvious to me that there is an objective responsibility of the State. People died on national roads, where, therefore, responsibility lies with the State, both for security and for maintaining the roads, and out there. But, finally, I will leave the government a time to assess this. I believe it is important, however, to ensure that people do not really have to walk in a courthouse to sue the State and therefore be able to be compensated in accordance with what they are entitled to. Let me just make a second comment very quickly, which has to do with the fact that only now, practically, is starting the most acute phase of firefighting. So let us start this phase with an unprecedented tragedy, which means that the government must do everything possible to somehow bridge the mistrust that has been installed on the device and in the reaction that must be taken in the face of these circumstances...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u9	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, it is necessary to overcome this mistrust, knowing that many people ended up dying as a result of panic, from reaction to situations where there was no water, there were no communications, there was not even electricity. It is important that these undiscovered versions appear between the communication system, the Ministry of Internal Administration ( MAI) and the IPMA itself, the idea that it began to generate that there was a tree that had started the fire until the idea that we are now looking for a criminal hand that could have been at the origin of the fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u12	I am concluding, Mr. President. All of this gives citizens a notion of restlessness and insecurity that it was important that it was overcome and that it needed to be overcome before the completion of the facts could be done with exhaustion, because this will take some time, even though it cannot obviously take too long. I conclude, Mr President, by telling the Government only yesterday that the report on the issue involving the Tax Authority and the transfers to offshores was known.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u13	Mr President, your time has already gone far enough to start another topic now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u14	I'm just going to signal the matter, Mr President. It was important for the Government to draw a few more conclusions, in view of the public debate that began at the time with regard to the responsibility on that subject. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u15	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u16	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, first of all, the State and its services have met all immediate needs, both in matters of emergency accommodation and in matters of emergency support for the deprived populations. The State services are also responding to immediate feed needs and are preparing to respond to all necessary support through the Municipal Emergency Fund to support municipal equipment and through the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development to respond to the replacement of productive capacity in agricultural matters. The Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure is mobilizing the set of funds it can mobilise to meet other needs and, this week, the Minister of Planning and Infrastructure has already met with the Commissioner for Regional Policy to be able to set up the European Union's emergency fund if the conditions that allow it to be implemented are found. So everything is being done to be able to answer. As far as responsibility is concerned, I would rather wait for the conclusions to come to my own conclusion. I think we should not rush with our action to disappoint others who are eventually responsible and I think we should, above all, bear in mind that, when we are talking about victims, we are talking about a very diverse number of victims. Dead victims are, up until today, 64 and not all died on that road, many died in access to that road, many died outside this area and are also victims of this fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u17	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u18	But there are also victims who have been injured and who, fortunately, have survived, there are also victims of material damage, there is a very large set of situations and that is why it is essential that we be able to ascertain the circumstances, because perhaps if you are right, the State will have to compensate far more than the families of the 64 victims of death.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u19	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u20	I will now finish, Mr President. If there is this objective responsibility, the responsibility of the State goes far beyond compensation for the damage of death to the families of the victims who have died. That is why we need to clear up, clarify the circumstances, do everything to clarify them, and we will be here to assume all the responsibilities that need to be assumed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u21	You have the floor, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Lacão to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, have, since the first hour, shared the sense of responsibility which certainly imposes upon all of us to work together calmly for the full realization of all aspects relevant to the understanding of the tragedy of Great Pedragon and the neighbouring councils. Even today, at the Conference of Leaders, we have once again been able to demonstrate our commitment to the establishment of the so-called "independent technical committee" for the possibility of achieving, under conditions of complete suitability, the same facts. And, therefore, we share the calls for responsibility, but we want to point out that the sense of responsibility must also increase the sense of scruple at the moment, because it is important that we can defend our views, but it is also important that we reject the temptation to instrumentalize situations in order to defend the views we consider to be entitled to. This has been our position, the position to which respect for the victims, for their families, for the autarchs, for all those who, unequivocally, on the various fronts of intervention, on the ground fought the fires. We want to be on the side of the government, which, following the fire-fighting process, has taken up as a priority all the support for reconstruction as Mr. Prime Minister has just mentioned. It must be a support for reconstruction which involves rehabilitating the conditions of people and families and which also involves rehabilitating economic living conditions in that part of the country, so that it can make a lever for the development of the interior regions, so lacking these impulses. We are therefore entirely on the side of priority support for the objectives of reconstruction and the objectives of economic recovery, but we also consider that it is time to look at a broader vision, with a sense of future, and, in this respect, we know that we have a responsibility for generations before us — yes, we have! — particularly with regard to the need for the reorganization of our forest and all aspects that are interconnected with it. in this sense, I want to stress here that it was not now, but it was already in October 2016, that in the Council of Extraordinary Ministers in Lousã, the Government put to the public discussion the first 12 diplomas for a global reform of our forest. I would like to remind you that, in April this year, five proposals for legislation on matters that are more sensitive in this area have been introduced into the Assembly of the Republic. I also recall that in June of this year, precisely on 12th, in the Diário da República Verde — it was known — diplomas have been published: simplifying the constitution of the ZIFs (forest intervention zones), allowing, in particular, the entry of local authorities for their management; the creation of forest management bodies, allowing small forest farmers to be added; the creation of biomass plants to meet, in particular, the objectives of cleaning our forest; the revision of planning and planning schemes, to associate the objective of forest planning with responsibilities, also at the municipal level and the inter-municipal communities. I would therefore like to remind you, too, of the work that is being done in the increase of forest scaffolding teams for this exact objective. Having said that, we are currently examining relevant diplomas. With regard to the system of logging and re-arboring, we know that in the last 10 years, in our country, the pine-bravo lost a significant share of the order of 250 000 ha and that the eucalyptus, on the other hand, gained an area of the order of 150 000 ha. And if something is going to join us and the government, it is certainly the purpose of creating conditions for the management of the forest that avoid monoculture solutions, in fact, to have a rational and properly integrated forest in its multi-use purposes. We also want to identify ourselves for the purpose of the Government of the creation of the land bank and the land mobilisation fund, to promote young farmers and young forestry farmers, and to create a cadastral information system that enables us to make useful use of what will perhaps be 1 million hectares of land in a state of abandonment, lack of ownership or lack of familiar ownership in our country. We want to contribute to a tax benefit regime that exactly pushes the proper increase in our forest management. The same is true of the review of the forest fire defence system, both in terms of its national structure and in terms of the increase in municipal competences and also in terms of local decentralization, which is also under discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. As such, what I would like to ask you is whether, in the face of these complex tasks, but which call for a mobilisation of our energies, Mr. Prime Minister considers that the fact that it is necessary — as has been said — is essential to ensure that all the facts relating to the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande are in some way impeded so that the normal development of forest reform can continue its course. On the other hand, knowing that Mr Prime Minister, still yesterday, had the opportunity to listen to the political parties on these matters, I would like to ask him whether, in his relationship with the parties, there was any discriminatory attitude towards any of them. Finally, I would also like to know your opinion on whether the Government, having heard the parties, is available to be able to cooperate with the Assembly of the Republic, in order to absorb all that can consistently be absorbed, in accordance with the suggestions and proposals of the other political parties with parliamentary representation, for the best possible realization and consensus of this reform that is so necessary for our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u23	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u24	Mr President, Mr Lacão, for various reasons, I have had, at different moments in my life, to think about the theme of the forest and for a long time I have insisted that the only way to prevent forest fires, in a sustainable and lasting way, is to reform the forest, in order to allow the forest — a resilient forest, which is a source of people's wealth and not a threat to its security. That is why it is essential to understand that, as far as we are concerned with the prevention of fires or the prevention of the environment, we are only making time here, if you want, to buy time to do the fundamental reform, which is essential to do. I've written it many years ago, and I've repeated it many times. That is why at the beginning of this government we took two very important initiatives: one, the establishment of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, which presented its final report last November, and the other, the establishment, in August 2016, of a working group coordinated by the Minister of Agriculture, which enabled us to carry out, on 27 October, an extraordinary Council of Ministers, specifically on forest reform and to place a set of 12 diplomas in public discussion, of which three have already entered into force and the others have been approved in the Council of Ministers on 21 March. Some are in force in the form of a decree, others are under consideration in this Assembly of the Republic in the form of a bill. This reform is absolutely vital. The forest and the revitalization of the interior are two themes that cross, because here, unfortunately, rebuilding cannot mean rehabilitation. If we do more than that in a few years, we'll have the same again. So, in this case, rebuilding means two things: rearranging and revitalizing. I hear many times that the inside is poor because people have come out of the inside. It's not having memory! People left the interior because the interior was poor, and the key to the revitalization of the interior is to re-create a productive potential, a potential for wealth generation. This potential has to bet on the valorization of its endogenous resources and one of the best endogenous resources that the interior has is indeed our forest. But for this forest to be effectively a wealth, it cannot be what it is today. We all know the story of how our forest mutation has developed, but now we have to redeploy this story and that is a mission of our generation, which we cannot give up on. If we let nature work for you, let things reborn as they were born again, we will have the story that I heard again today from the camera presidents, who told how you burned back now what you had burned down in the same place, many years ago. Therefore, we need to have a rearrangement of the forest and for this we need to have access to the register, have a forest planning regime, have the capacity to impose the reorganization of the forest, create a scale so that the forest can be an economic value that is paid to itself, that generates wealth and helps to revitalize the interior itself. in the system that we have mini or microproperty, there will never be any way of profitability of the forest. That is why we need to develop mechanisms that allow the forest to have a scale, respecting the right of ownership of people. We have the ZIF, which are a good experience where there are, and we need to create conditions so that they can work better. This is what we did, in particular, allowing the cities to enter. We are now proposing the creation of forest management entities — public, private, associative or municipal base — which allow for the management of that forest as a whole, because, in the atomization of that property, we will not even be able to have enough income to ensure the cleaning of those forests. The accumulation of that fuel transforms what is a huge potential for wealth into a huge threat to populations and to those territories. That is why we have to find new ways of valuing that fuel material and that is why we have also created legislation to develop biomass plants so that we can have a better use of this biomass. We have to bet on and support innovation. There are very interesting experiences, such as, for example, in Hospital Oliveira, which allow the use of biomass and transform it into biofuel, so that we can have a cleaner, safer energy that helps to produce wealth needed to clean up the forest itself. In fact, there has to be a limitation on the expansion of the eucalyptus, not because the eucalyptus is the devil or something we have to diabolize, but because we have to have a forestry arrangement that allows the good combination of the different forest parts. First, preventing some species from developing in territories less conducive to their development and, second, that may be framed by native species, which have a resilience and which, themselves, may be a barrier to the expansion of the fire. We must be able to impose on the forest the necessary protection bands — whether in the dwellings or in the villages — so that there can be fuel discontinuity and thus facilitate the fight against fires when they happen. Therefore, it is the whole of this work that has to be done. For this reason, I think it is essential that we take advantage of this occasion and this extraordinary solidarity which the country has manifested in relation to the victims of the fire to turn them into something positive, doing what we also have to do: not only help, not only prevent, but also the structural work it is about to do. Well, I know this job won't have any effect for the year, not two years from now, not three years from now... Probably not even 10 years from now, all the results will be produced. But that just means that the sooner we start, the later we get results and these we can no longer postpone. That's why we have to move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must do so in a spirit of national consensus as well, seeking to find the points of view that we can share and answer the questions that are put, which are not included in our proposals for legislation, and which can be improved. Of all the parties — or almost all — I have heard excellent suggestions, positive suggestions, in order to improve the bill that is in the Assembly of the Republic. But, as you know better than anyone else, the bill ceases to be the government's property on the day when Mr President cut off his admission. From that day on, it is owned by the ladies and gentlemen. Members, who will make the bill what they all understand must be done. What they can count on from the Government is with all collaboration, all commitment, all information and all loyalty so that we do not waste this opportunity to have a forest package that supports forest reform, that is an effective structural reform and that is a contribution, which we have to give, for the revitalization of our entire interior. If we do, I think we honor the memory of those who will never forget, those who have lost their lives in these fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u25	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u26	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have already had a session here to express Parliament's regret and solidarity with the victims of the tragedy of Great Pedragon. I believe that today is also the time to assume responsibilities on what we are going to do now, responsibilities that are heavy and essential and that, I think, are three: the first is to respond specifically to the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, supporting the populations, finding out what has happened and withdrawing consequences; the second is to have the instruments to prevent, in the short term, new tragedies, so that in Portugal we do not happen all summers with fires; and the third is to start the structural reform of the forest that the country needs, so that, in times of our lives, we can still see the results of these changes. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions about these three matters, starting with our collective responsibility to respond immediately. I think we all feel the gratitude and weight of the responsibility of a country so supportive and that it immediately responded to the people with the best of you. And surely the State cannot rest on this support, on the contrary, it must be consistent, it must have the support of the emergency, social support, the support of the reconstruction of the houses, of the lives, of the productive tissue. Mr Prime Minister, the responsibility of the State for those who die on a national road cannot be forgotten either in this matter and in the matter of compensation for the victims. It'll have time for the serenity of decisions, but it can't be a subject that we can run away to here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u28	In addition, we will take responsibility for what has happened, and the Bloc has to say, which must be urgent, and the government has the executive capacity to make it faster. We will participate here, in the Assembly of the Republic, in all forms of doing, as we have always done, and, we already know, the courts will also make their way, and they must do so. In any case, there are failures that are already known and that need a response, because summer is just beginning and we would like to be sure that there will be no more fires this summer, but we cannot be sure of that, nor give that guarantee to anyone. When we know that communications have failed or that there have been problems in the chain of command, it means that, regardless of the clearance of responsibilities, which must be done, it is necessary now, as soon as possible, that the government can tell the people how the immediate failures that have already been known to exist are being resolved. The question I have to ask you, Prime Minister, is the following: when can we tell the population that the failures of communications and chain of command in civil protection have been corrected immediately, so that you can give security to the country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u29	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u30	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we have received all the responsibilities, those that have been taken care of, and we now have the responsibility to discharge the responsibilities. There are areas in which the independent technical committee will certainly clear up and there are areas in which the institutions themselves are working, but we must try to clarify everything. That is why I have asked the questions which I think I should ask; that is why the Minister of Internal Administration has ordered the investigations which she has decided to order; and that is why these answers should be known for the full explanation of this matter. There is one thing we can be sure of: not only can we say that there will be no fires like, and we can be sure of this, there will be fires. There's still been fires. on that day, there were not only those two fires; on that day, there were 156 fires and, on the next day, there were new fires. Therefore, we can never forget that there is a huge difference between those, fortunately few, fires that take on a catastrophic dimension and the many fires in which the civil protection system and, in particular, firefighters have revealed a remarkable ability to respond and that there is no news. We must take care of all responsibilities, particularly the functioning of the communications system. That is why we have adopted a criterion of total transparency and published all the information we have received. That is, I asked the National Civil Protection Authority a question, I published the answer; we received a reply from SIRESP, we published this answer; we received an answer from the MAI General Secretariat, we published that answer. It is essential that the honourable Members. Members, but above all, citizens, can, at the same time as us, follow up all the information that is being collected and that it can be exposed with complete transparency. Now, what I do not accept is that there are two pesos and two measures: if you adhere to the opposition proposal to set up a parliamentary committee, it is all a trick, which is not to obtain information; if the reports are not disclosed, the information is being hidden; if the reports are published, public opinion too information is intoxicating. Don't! The information must be made public. We need to know how to work the information and, on the basis of the information, make the right decisions. The Minister has already asked the Telecommunications Institute for an overall audit of the operation of the emergency communications system. There is what we know, which is the version that gives the entity that operates SIRESP, and there is the version of the users of SIRESP. And, as we know, there is a great difference between what some say and what others say; part of this difference is understandable, because it results from the fact that the interconnection between the different areas is made through the MEO cables and, when they burn the MEO cables, not only are the communications of MEO interrupted as all communications that circulate on those cables are interrupted. But this technology has the ability to ensure the operation in local mode. Therefore, in the area covered by each antenna, you have to ensure the response capacity, then you have to ensure the communications. at this point, the difference is no longer explicable, because here there are different versions by the operator, relative to users. This difference must be clarified and the responsibilities must be clarified and assumed, and this must be done first by the State because of ethical duty and, secondly, due to legal duty, because there are contracts and contracts must be fulfilled; the State must ensure its compliance if there has been non-compliance. Therefore, this clarification must be made and I am sure that this will certainly be a central issue of the technical committee which the Assembly of the Republic will create; it is inevitable that it will be, and yet it will be. I await the report of the Telecommunications Institute and, of course, also the completion of the internal investigations that have been carried out, so that we can have a complete response to these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u31	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word to ask questions. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think there is no one in the country who has a huge gratitude for those men and women on the ground, firefighters fighting fires, the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) in the field, the workers of the authorities — so many people who do their best in the most complicated situations. If this requires us to clear up everything that has happened and remove consequences and all responsibilities, I think it also requires us to tell the country that, as we do this, we ensure that communications, when needed, will happen in a certain way. That word and security for the people must be given by the government as soon as possible. There are also other questions on which Mr. Prime Minister knows the position of the Left Block. For example, SIRESP should never be a PPP (public-private partnership) ; it cost the state five times more than it cost to mount and, every time there is a problem, they say that nothing has to do with it, and they still want more public money. Now, the State cannot continue to pay a concessionaire that always fails. The SIRESP is redeemed to the public, so that they can be held accountable, and the changes that must be made will not fail to hold the private in which they must be held accountable. But there is another short-term issue that is essential for there to be no other year like this, which is prevention, already. I remember that in 2014 Parliament did a very thorough work on what had happened with the fires of that year — terrible fires too — and resolutions and recommendations were approved unanimously, and some of them give us clues, I think, to the way we should start to do now so that next summer will not be so. I give an example of three clues: to ensure public funds for the implementation of forest prevention policies, and for this reason the next Budget is called up; the State to coordinate and implement subsidiaryly the primary fuel management network, i.e. to identify who should do so, but, if not, it must have the mechanisms to clear the roads, railways and what is necessary for the safety of the populations; and finally, the strengthening of the Forest Sapphire Programme, in order to reach those 500 teams with which we commit ourselves, that reinforcement which has even been approved by draft resolution, presented by the Block, again in this Legislative Session and which has to happen as soon as possible. This short-term is essential and it is also about the availability of the government for this short-term which I would like to question. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u34	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I will be quick to answer, so that we can take time to answer your next question. First, the Minister of Internal Administration has already ordered the direct acquisition of satellite antennas to ensure redundancy in situations where the destruction of the communications network is repeated. Secondly, there is agreement on strengthening public funds for prevention, which has already happened this year, and also on strengthening forest-scaling teams. Finally, with regard to primary management responsibilities, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 2006 legislation on forest fire protection already permits—more than, it requires — the State, the authorities and the dealers to ensure that primary fire protection network. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u35	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, the State is obliged, and well, to this prevention, but it has not done so. We need to implement this prevention as long as we do the structural reform we need, so that it will take effect in the times of our lives. We have talked about this. The Left Block was the only party to put forward a proposal — indeed, the Government also presented — and has a desire to discuss forest reform, of course, with all the parties. Before we formally put forward our proposals, we made a public debate in October; in March, the proposals entered Parliament ; in April, they were discussed in general, in plenary, together with those of the Government ; and now they are at the centre of expertise. And I think there are a few points that have the ability to make enormous convergence in this Parliament, if we all heed what we already know, the diagnoses that have already been made and the commitments we have already made, but that we have never made. I draw attention to this 2014 report which has some points that I think should be the starting point for us to be consistent. Well, one of the points was as soon as forest legislation had to be reviewed. In 2014, that was the commitment we made here. But this report also recommends that one should think of a clustered management, that contiguous and small land can be grouped together—and this idea of the continuity of the land, that is to say, to arrange large spots, is very important and, for the Left Block, is a good part of the core of its proposal — and in a re-arboring and diversification, to combat, with this, the continuous stain of eucalyptus and pineapple and the monoculture of the eucalyptus.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u38	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u39	I'm almost done, Mr. President. Today, the Minister of Agriculture said, well, "Not one more foot of eucalyptus! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Let us therefore: let us do the reform and, while we do it, let us not allow this stain to continue to spread—and it is already the largest absolute area of eucalyptus in Europe and one of the greatest in the world—, without forgetting, of course, the question of registration, so that it will go to property.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u40	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u41	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that for the Block it is important — and I believe that there must be responsibility for it, so that we make this joint journey — that the State assumes responsibility for the land that is not known who they are or are abandoned and that this responsibility may fall on ownership and management. In Portugal less than 3 % of the forest is public and in the rest of Europe is 58 %. What is abandoned, what has no owner must be public and the State must intervene so that no more abandoned forest is left. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u42	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u43	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the clarification of the structure of property is essential for structural reform. That is why one of the proposed laws that is here is precisely on the subject of registration and to encourage owners to do so, so that they are not afraid to do so, the proposal is accompanied by a prolonged exemption from taxation on property, so that it is not always the father of taxes that the registration is not done. The registration is made without taxes and we will solve the problem of the structure and knowledge of the structure of the property, because this is conditional on everything. Secondly, the holding has to have a scale, as I said recently, because if it does not have it, it has no profitability. For this to happen, we must promote associivism through the ZIFs ( Forest Intervention Areas ), we must involve the CIMs ( Intermunicipal Community ) and the municipal chambers, we must create the forest management bodies, whether they are cooperative, whether they are public or private. In addition, we have the decision that one of the public companies in the forest area should also take on the role of being a forest management entity. And more: I don't know that one of the...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u44	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u45	I will now finish, Mr President. I do not know that one of the steps we can and should take to increase the size of the public forest area is that all forest areas that are integrated into the land bank cannot be sold and can simply be rented for exploitation, in order to guarantee that greater presence of the State. Finally, Mr President, and in conclusion, we must restrict the eucalyptus, prohibit, as proposed, the expansion of its area, encourage its relocation, because the stain of the eucalyptus, especially in the interior areas, with the bioclimatic conditions they have, is the greatest risk, and therefore its relocation to other areas without increasing the areas of eucalyptus, not only...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u46	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u47	... increases its own productivity as it greatly improves safety in relation to forest fires. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u48	Mrs Cristas, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, has already spent more than a week and a half on the tragedy that led to the life of 64 people, who have left the country in mourning, and this is the time to prepare ourselves to work on several fronts. I would like to make it clear today that there is, for us, a front that is not saying above, but that is at a different level from all others, and that is what it has to do with restoring the confidence of all Portuguese in the state and in the public institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u51	For this it is essential that we consider what has happened, that there should be clarifications, that the changes that are adjusted should certainly be made, but to want to move forward without a total clearance is bad, not honor the memory of the victims, does not help to make the mourning of so many families and friends and does not, above all, allow a guarantee that none of this will happen again. The CDS has always said so, and says it again, in this as in other subjects, that we have a constructive position and certainly we have many positive contributions in terms of forests to give, for example, the registration project that the PSD and CDS have presented in this House nearly a year ago. But today I wanted to say that, for us, it is essential, too, not to forget the political side of the answers. There is time for studies, there is time for technical analysis, there is time for structural questions, but we cannot confuse some aspects with others and today is the time for the political issue. When the national mourning is accomplished, the involvement of all these areas cannot forget the question that massacres on the head of many and many Portuguese, be they of Pedrogon Grande, of the other municipalities affected by the fire or of those who, in Lisbon, in the port or throughout the country, question themselves about it. And the political question is this: how was this tragedy possible? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is not a political question, it is the question that anyone makes in the face of this human tragedy, whether political or not. For me, I believe that, in order to answer this question, I need to know what is the probable cause of the origin of the fire and what is the dynamics that the fire has had. The IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) gave a first answer and said that it is doing an in-depth study and I look forward to the study before it kicks me. Secondly, it is necessary to understand and understand the dynamics of the fire. on the day of the fire itself, the Minister asked Prof. Xavier Viegas to study the dynamics of this fire in concrete and I think that this is an absolutely essential issue. Then there are all other issues, namely whether or not the communication system has failed or not, as it has failed and what consequences it has had, whether or not traffic management operations were decisive, whether or not they could or could not have been planned, whether or not they had any causal relationship. There are, therefore, this set of questions that will allow us to answer your question, but what I can assure you is that my curiosity about the answer to these questions is no less than yours and certainly not less than that of all other Portuguese people. Now, there is one thing that I am also sure: no one wants hasty answers. Everyone wants to respond knowing with certainty and with confidence the answer they are giving. For me, I'd rather wait to be sure of what I'm telling you about now something that I can't confirm tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u54	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u55	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have heard, over the last few days, exactly that and today I must say, I expected more in this debate because I am perplexed when I hear a Prime Minister say that he is curious. Curiosity is not something a Prime Minister has, a Prime Minister has to have responsibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u57	... responsibility to ask your services, your administration, to require explanations of these services, and if they are contradictory, perhaps, you have to sit at the table or you have to arbitrate these contradictions, because, Mr. Prime Minister, of course there will be plenty of time to clarify everything but what the Portuguese cannot see today is to various services, several of them from the height of the Ministry of Internal Administration, say different things, incompatible with each other, and there is the political silence of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u59	Is there no one in the government ordering the house? Is there no one telling people that if they do not have a consensual and definitive answer, then that they are silent, because this destroys trust in institutions?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u61	Does the Prime Minister know that we are on the verge of holidays and that there are many families with children going to vacation camps — of scouts or others — for our forests and that are afraid at this point to let their children go?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u62	That's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u63	Do you know that? Oh, my God! Trust is destroyed and will continue to be destroyed until you also have a political word on this matter. Being Prime Minister is not a citizen equal to all others; we all, and all those who are out there, have certainly put the questions that are within their reach, which are within the reach of their experience and the reach of their understanding, but the answer that is asked of a Prime Minister is another and that is what is failing since the first hour. Of course we want all the clarifications, but we also want political coordination, we also want political response to this matter and what we are witnessing is a show, a show of a lack of coordination, which today we realize exists, and so much we realize that there is now that we have the various entities each to "strike on their side", and there is no voice which, above them, causes them to be silenced or that they will arbitrate these same answers. And speaking in coordination, Mr Prime Minister, there is a question which has not yet been asked and which leaves me quite concerned and willing to know what the answer is, which naturally depends on the government, and which is the following: why has the National Operational Commander never taken control of operations in a fire with 64 fatal victims? [[Congrats from the CDS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u64	To reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u65	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, you can accuse this government of much less silence. We haven't been silent! We were not silent when it was necessary to support those who were fighting the fires, neither the Minister, who was on the ground, nor the Secretary of State, who was on the ground, nor me, who was in the National Operations Command. We were not silent when it was necessary to give the emergency response and on Sunday morning myself, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Planning were working with the camera presidents to see what the immediate response we had to give. We are not silent when it comes to rebuilding, because we are not only rebuilding how to plan reconstruction on a structural basis that alters the entire structure and dynamics of that region, allowing forest reorganization and economic revitalization. But I have not been silent about the clearance of responsibilities either. Sorry-CL will tell me -but if someone asked questions, first, I was, who on Monday posed three questions to the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere, the Republican National Guard and the National Civil Protection Authority,... [[PSD protests.]] ...and since then we have always been asking, getting answers and doing something that is not to shut up or hide what they say. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that if there is a way to give the country confidence, it is the country to know that the government neither commands to shut up nor hides what it hears. Everyone can know, because that's what gives people confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u66	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u67	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact I am becoming increasingly perplexed because I understand that Mr Prime Minister, if necessary, has no idea of his full role, of what the difference between the other Portuguese, what it means to be Prime Minister, which is to coordinate the Public Administration, certainly is to ask internal questions and have answers to give, and answers that are political, with certainty. And let me remind you that perhaps when you were the leader of the Socialist Party's parliamentary bench in 2003 you might have the perception when you said in a debate on 16 August 2003 in this House the following: « we will not resign ourselves from the task of determining all the responsibilities and political supervision of the government's action. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is political responsibility that we are talking about when we talk about such diverse and contradictory responses to each other and when we do not hear the government coordinate or say whatever it is. For example, the government has not yet been able to explain why it is that the maximum civil protection coordinator — indeed, recently established by VV. Ex.a — took the operational command of this fire. Is there anything more important to do than this when 64 people die? Will there be anything more important to do than take on this operational coordination? I just don't see! And I must also say, Mr Prime Minister, that at the time Mr Vitalino Canas said, in the same debate, "The question posed to Mr Prime Minister, the Minister of Administration and the other ministers is if he has the courage to say, in his eyes, to the people, to the firefighters, to the authorities that the Government has done everything it can. Do not keep on seeking. ” That is what we need to ask and certainly that the answers are multiple, but the political answer is urgent and necessary. And it's not asking down, it's saying out what's happened, what's going on and how it's guaranteed that within 15 days, from one month to three weeks, it's not going to happen the same when we have more fires. It is this part, Prime Minister, that part of being a face of confidence for the Portuguese that is required of a Prime Minister. And I'm sorry, but it's not...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u68	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. And, I am sorry, it is not exposing the contradictions of the administration, it is not exposing the contradictions of the versions, it is not exposing the fragility of the coordination which Mr. Prime Minister gives the example of being a face of confidence for the Portuguese, which is what it has to be and what the government has to be. So, let me say again: today, here, and we will continue to insist on this point, a political answer is needed. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u70	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u71	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, we certainly have different ways of understanding how we are responsible for our duties. The understanding I have is to ask first and draw conclusions based on the answers I get. I understand there are people who have another criterion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u72	It wasn't like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u73	It wasn't like that in 2003!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u74	I admit that there are people who prefer to draw conclusions first and then ask. They are methods, but I assure you the following: the method I follow is that which I think any political officer should follow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it was also what happened in 2003 when I was leading the Socialist Party. That was the year, until today, in which there were more and more fires in Portugal. And as you said then, and the honourable Member will certainly not be able to say otherwise, nothing can be done to demand the political responsibilities that must be demanded. That is certainly the function of the Assembly of the Republic. If I still remember the Constitution, the Government responds to the Assembly of the Republic and will always be here to respond politically to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u75	It wasn't like that in 2003!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u76	Political response is not the answer to the invention, it is the answer based on information. So when they ask me how this fire originated, I could put myself here to speculate, and I have heard several versions, but precisely because today I am Prime Minister and I am not just the António Costa, when here I say my opinion on how this fire originated, it will have to be based on technical and official information that allows me to make that statement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When I say here whether or not there were failures in the control structure is because I have my conviction about whether or not there were failures. And it's not my personal opinion, it's mine as Prime Minister. There is one thing I want to say to you, Mrs. Member : the National Relief Operations Commander, Commander Rui Esteves, has always been in your position in the National Command. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And he was in the National Command because, on that day, the only occurrence was not that fire. on that day there were at least 156 fires, on Sunday there were more than 100 fires, again there were fires also on Monday and the national command was necessary to be secured throughout the country and not only on that front. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u77	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u78	But I can also add that, however, the National Commander has moved one of his deputies to the command of Pedrógão Grande, who took command directly that operation during the most critical period. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u79	To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u80	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, on fires, I would say that this is the time to take emergency, repair and relief measures to populations and prevention for the coming months. And these can't be missing! We are pleased that today at the Conference of Leaders a proposal has been accepted to draw up a law for this purpose immediately. It is also necessary for the Government to clarify, and it is for the Government to clarify, in the midst of contradictory reports and information, what went wrong with the media, communications, command hierarchys, in the attack on that tragedy. But we can't stay here. There are obvious things: lack of land and forest planning, cleaning of forests, abandonment, lack of prevention and supervision. However, that is not enough to explain everything that is essential either. The most fundamental causes of this dramatic situation are the choices of right-wing policy in the service of the great economic interests. They are in the weakening of this policy to the dictates of the European Union, with its rules, its constraints, expressed in the obsession of the deficit ; in the destruction of the productive apparatus, particularly in agriculture; in cuts in public expenditure; in the fragility and dismantling of the Public Administration ; in the devaluation of its workers, of technicians, who today are so lacking in view of the situation we are living and who have induced the structural vulnerabilities of the country in the food, energy, planning and public services plans. These were the options that led to ordering or, rather, to the disorder that we have, to the abandonment of production and of the rural world, to depopulation, to the promiscuities between economic interests and political power, to the dismantling of State structures. Yes, Mr. Steps Coelho, to politics what is political. These options result in a right-wing policy of successive governments PS, PSD and CDS, which handed over SIRESP to players who only think about the multiplication of capital, extinguished forest guards, closed their eyes to the proliferation of endless stains of eucalyptus and pine trees, destroyed the services of the Ministry of Agriculture, closed public services, reduced the security forces to their minimum expression. It was not the State that failed, as some claim. It was the policy of successive governments that led to this result. [[PCP applause.]] That's the way that needs to be broken. The problem is not consensus in words. The consensus, moreover, failed only in this regard with the previous Government, which, in addition to other matters, diverted almost EUR 200 million from forests in the reprogramming of PRODER.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u81	What a can! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u82	The question is urgently being put into practice what has been consensualized for a long time. And there's a fundamental prevention. It is that much of the necessary measures do not even need legislation, what they need is financial and human resources, and some of them are very high means, which will have an impact on the State budget already this year and on 2018. The option is, whenever we speak, probably incompatible with the share of the European Union's deficit or taxation, particularly the debt settlement. It is important to know whether the Government is available for such a confrontation. It is important to know whether the government is available to go to the Portuguese forest as if it was a bank in need of rescue. Hello, Prime Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u83	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u84	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I am going straight to the issue and will not lose myself in the forest of the substantive debate on the European Union and the capitalist system.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u85	Let's not just discuss the tree!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u86	On the forest, which the Government is available, the government showed it when on 27 October it opened a public debate on forest reform, when it held dozens of sessions throughout the country of debate on the forest, and the Government was present on 21 March, Tree Day, in an extraordinary Council of Ministers to approve the package as a whole. However, it had changed the rules on the constitution of the Forest Sappadores Brigades, to speed it up, and had also approved the pilot project for the safeguarding of the National Park of Peneda-Gerês, as a pilot project of exemplary safeguard of a heritage that is fundamental, from an environmental point of view, in our country. As we all know, protected areas have often been the most protected against fires and are those where the risk of fire, from the point of view of environmental damage, biodiversity, development of low-density territories, is more serious. last year, when there was another fire in Gerês, we took on the commitment — the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Agriculture and myself — that we would, precisely in Gerês, make a pilot project; it is this pilot project that was approved and I believe until it was published in December or January. We now have a vast set of diplomas for debate in the Assembly of the Republic, and fundamental diplomas, which have to do with the registration, with the prohibition of the expansion of the area of eucalyptus, with the tax incentive to change the reorganization of the forest, with the establishment of the land bank and also on the arrangement of forest management. They are absolutely essential diplomas. I know that the CFP has, from the outset, been in disagreement with these proposals. But the proposals are there and the best answer is « let's go to play ». A period is open within the next 15 days for the submission of proposals for amendments in the field of expertise. And I invite the CFP... No, I will not invite the CFP, I hope that the CFP will also present its proposals, in the specialty, so that we can consider them and value them, so that we can improve this bill. I respect the divergence, but I think we also have a duty to try to reduce it. If we want to reduce the divergence, it is by doing the debate in the specialty. Let's go to the debate in the specialty. I hope and the Government will look at all the proposals that the CFP has put forward on the proposals for legislation with the full constructive spirit we have worked with throughout this year and a half. If we arrive at the end and agree, excellent; if we arrive at the end and we do not agree, we will continue forward, because we have often not reached the agreement, even during this year and a half. Now, the duty we all have is to strive for the best possible forest reform. There are many things that don't need law, but there are things that need law, and you know that. Therefore, having this debate, we must "go to play" and we will be constructive in order to make a good reform of our forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u87	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u88	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it rests that the CFP will certainly present proposals not only on the issue of reorganization but also on other measures that are, of course, necessary. I'm talking about the slags, the forest guards, but I could talk about a lot of things here, about concrete proposals we have. You'll see our willingness to do that. Allow me, Mr. Prime Minister, to convey another bad news. Today, the results of the 2017 Spring Report of the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems were released, in which a conclusion is highlighted: they are the poorest who have the most difficulties in accessing services and medicines. They confirm concerns that we have expressed, and even last Monday we did so in a political statement. Of course, the chronic underfinancing to which SNS is subject and which is responsible for delays in the renovation of equipment; for the non-contracting of thousands of professionals in need, especially doctors and nurses, situations that call into question any objective of reducing waiting times, either in the consultations of the specialty, or in the surgeries; for the accumulation of patients in emergencies; for the professional and wage devaluation of professionals in activity; for the non-implementation of a true policy of health promotion and disease prevention. Sub-financing contributing not only to the increase in transfers to private groups as it obligates most Portuguese families to unsustainable health expenses — more than €1300 a year, one of the highest rates of the European Union. The question I want to ask is when is the change in health policy that the Portuguese people expect and that they expressed in the polls in 2015? But, Mr. Prime Minister, how not everything is bad in life, good news. This week, we learned that the government finally decided to invest in the maintenance of the fleet of ships of the Transtejo and the Soflus of EUR 10 million. We welcome this decision, which cannot be disconnected from the continuing intervention of the CFP and the struggle of workers and users. But if this investment will allow in the short and medium term to put some of the ships that were stopped into operation, it is necessary to go further not only in the reactivation of maintenance yards but also in the expansion of career offers, which has been dramatically achieved over the years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u89	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u90	It's just a sentence, Mr. President. At the same time, there is the problem of the Lisbon metro, also demanding investment and hiring of staff in order to respond to the populations. Will the government respond to these problems? A step has been taken but there is still a need to make the way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u92	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, excuse me, Mr CL, but he only gave half the good news, because he didn't give the other half. And it is also good news, in fact, the honourable Member has contributed a lot to it and has often questioned me about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u93	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u94	It is, last Thursday, that the company agreement for Transtejo and Soflusa was published in the Bulletin of Labour and Employment. This is the other half of the good news that you have not given. with regard to the subway, also this week or, better, on day 19, will start the work of the station of Arrouios, which is absolutely essential for the Green Line to function again with six wagons/ compositions. It has already started with both the procurement and the works, so of course it is necessary to speed up. With regard to the report which has been published today, on the basis of 2014 data, it is true what it signals, but it is also true that this report does not fail to record the positive steps that have already been taken over this year and half, in terms of the reduction of moderate rates, the exemption of transport rates for non-emergency patients and, more recently, for palliative patients, the gradual reduction of drug charges, through the increase of participations, the increase in the number of family health units, the introduction of new services at this level of primary health care, such as oral health care, visual screening and psychiatric care, the opening of more beds of continuous care, human resources, both in physicians and in nurses, or in diagnostic technicians, and the introduction of freedom of choice by users of the National Health Service. This means that, as I said, we have taken a step—I would even say that we have taken several steps—but we must continue to walk in order to ensure a better redistribution of the burden of the National Health Service between the users and the state. It is this journey that we must continue, as we have done this year and a half, and that we will certainly continue over the next two and a half years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u95	It's The Greens' turn. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u96	Mr President, Prime Minister, already during this debate and on the issue of emergency communications, in particular from SIRESP, Mr Prime Minister made a statement that will go more or less on the following: we must understand whether contracts have been breached. The Greens obviously associate themselves with this position, that is, all the clarifications must be provided thoroughly so that we can understand what has actually failed. But, Prime Minister, do you know what concerns the Greens in this regard? It is that sometimes they are the contracts themselves that allow these failures and sometimes they are the contracts themselves that are absolutely condescending to these failures. Therefore, I think that this work must also be done, because if there is a need to review a contract that does not serve the Portuguese State, this review must be done. Therefore, I would like to leave this perennial statement before Mr. Prime Minister, and I would also like to assume it publicly. However, during the debate, Mr Prime Minister also said that the territory concerned, Pedrogão Grande and other neighbouring municipalities that were hit by those tragic fires will now tend to have more or less the title of pilot territory where a concrete experience of enhancing forest restructuring and economic revitalization of the interior will be done. To understand exactly what that will be, I would like to ask, perhaps, some more detail from Mr. Prime Minister, so that we can try to understand, at least, what path is that one seeks to trace with these objectives. Mr Prime Minister, on the matter of forest fires, the Greens take as a very high priority an intervention around forest settlements. And this is, for us, such a priority that Mr. Prime Minister must remember that, in the joint position which the Greens have signed with the Socialist Party, we have just introduced there the need to halt the expansion of the area of eucalyptus and to value the native species, because a new paradigm is needed in the forest. We had to stop the momentum that the PSD/CDS government sought to accelerate, particularly with that which became known as the « eucalyptus law », and it was not by chance that it became so known, because what the law of treery and re-arboring did, in particular, as we and many environmental associations denounced at the time, was galloping in the growth of the eucalyptus area. And you need to stop it, you need a new paradigm for the forest. What has been done, over the last decades, with the expansion of the eucalyptus area, is to create a less resistant forest, particularly forest fires. I think at this point we really need to hear who is on the ground, Mr Prime Minister, because what the firemen are telling us repeatedly from years ago to this part, when we talk to those who operate on the ground, is 'get these continuous spots of eucalyptus from the front', 'just burn eucalyptus, just burn eucalyptus, we don't realize the eucalyptus, the eucalyptus is a real trail'. These people know what they're dealing with on the ground! And we must definitely change this paradigm! Portugal must cease to be an 'eucaliptolland'! We definitely have to give space, and serious space, to our native species, to make our forest more resistant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u97	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u98	I should like to conclude by saying this: on the other day, when we had an evocative session here, the Prime Minister heard the Greens say in the rostrum that more than political will and, therefore, speeches, until we have a lot of consensus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u99	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u100	... what is fundamental is political courage, political responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u101	It was a lot of phrases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u102	And that responsibility also goes, in fact, by facing the economic lobbies and the lobbies of the celluloses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u103	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u104	I want to know if the government actually takes that political courage. It was a sentence with many commas, Mr. President. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u105	It was a sentence with several small phrases or multiple parentheses. Mr. Prime Minister, to answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u106	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, all contracts must be reviewed and, as far as I know, that contract has already been revised twice. But if it is necessary to review it again, it must certainly be reviewed. Ask how to reorder and how to revitalize. Today, we met with the presidents of the chamber, we combined work together, in fact, they made a suggestion of how to create a specific organic unit for this matter and we began to meet again on the next day 19, now in the Sertan, precisely to work on the start of this operation, defining the methodology, structure, objectives and how we will work to ensure that we can carry out there a pilot project that can be replicated, with good practices of reordinating the forest and of economic, social and demographic revitalization of the interior of the country. As regards the issue of the law of trees, you know our proposal, you are here in the Assembly of the Republic — one of which is for approval in the Assembly of the Republic — and you must first of all comply with what we have agreed to, in order to halt the expansion of the eucalyptus stain. The eucalyptus stain cannot increase, it is allowed, yes, something else, that is the transfer of planting areas. And I must tell you that the transfer of planting areas, without increasing the area, is positive, because, as we know, on the whole coast, from the level of moisture, resilience to fire is much higher than that in the interior areas. Therefore, allowing the transfer of areas from one area to another area favors the resilience of that species. But we must also say everything, Mrs Deputies, because we have no other kind of trees, we must also have another type of forest planning. Whoever travels today, the IC8 sees how the mantle next to the ground was enough for the flames to sweep that entire area, preserving not only the cups as the trunks themselves, which means that the fuel load in the forest territory does not sum up the eucalyptus, the fuel load results in a huge disoccupy of the municipal territory. That is also why we cannot ignore that, when we are going to see the economically viable areas of forest management, even those that sit on eucalyptus monoculture, have rates of burning areas far below those that exist in the rest of the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u108	So we have to contain the expansion of the eucalyptus, we have to redirect the eucalyptus to where it represents less risk, but, above all, we have to have a forest structure, as a whole, more fire-resistant, better managed. And, for this to be possible, we must gain the scale that the ZIFs (forest intervention zones) give them and that the forest management bodies can give them because, if we do not, Mrs Deputy, I regret to say that even without eucalyptus, we will have fires. Therefore, we need to have an integrated action on all these activities and that is why, for the population economy itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u109	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u110	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, for the population's economy itself, it is necessary to have a forest with a diversified composition that allows people not only to have income for their grandchildren, but also for their daily lives, because the best friend of the forest has to be the inhabitant of the forest and the forest must be loved by its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u111	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u112	That is why it is necessary to be a properly planned and orderly solution in order to ensure income for all generations and to have a fire-resistant forest that is a source of wealth and revitalization and not a threat to the safety of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u113	To put questions, I have the floor of Mr André Silva, whom I wish to say good afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u114	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, on 27 April this year, in the context of the forest fire defence, the GNR carried out control actions in the Pedrogão Grande municipality, in order to safeguard the maintenance of the plant fuel management bands. Throughout the country, every year, the GNR lifts thousands of cars and applies fines to forest land owners, for failure to comply with the law that obliges them to clean up. Nevertheless, the non-compliances remain, with the results we all know. In the event of non-compliance, the municipal chambers should carry out this work in order to ensure the protection of the forest, people, animals and property against fires, with the right, of course, to be compensated by the owners, but they do not. And why don't they do it? Is it because they have no resources to do so or will it be for electoral reasons? This leads us to a question, Prime Minister : given that the legislative package for forest reform under discussion increases the responsibilities of the authorities in the field of forest management and fires, how does the Government ensure that, with this transfer of powers, the authorities will fulfil their obligations? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u115	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u116	Mr President, Mr André Silva, Decree-Law No 124 / 2006, which defined the forest defense system against fires, attributed the responsibilities and penalties either in case of execution or in case of substitution or penalty. I believe, moreover, that in the previous legislation, the competence of the police authorities has been strengthened so as to be able to deal precisely with situations of insufficiency by the local authorities. I think we must hold everyone accountable and guarantee all the means necessary to be able to monitor. What I can tell you is that this year twice as many of the cars have been lifted last year and we have the possibility to identify, even in this area where these fires occurred, how many cars have been lifted and what situations have been identified as demanding an urgent change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u117	Mr André Silva has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u118	Mr. President, Prime Minister, in the fire-affected region, and for the moment, there are four multidisciplinary teams, psychologists and psychiatrists in the field, to support the cases considered to be more serious and to make the referral to mental health units. The great concern of the NAP and also of the Order of Psychologists lies with the lack of field support for other cases, which are many, such as those of people in isolation and anxiety, which can result in more serious situations, as well as the fundamental support of continuity that must be guaranteed after this most critical phase. The biggest problem will be the post-traged months, even because in the grouping of 14 health centers of Pinhal Interior Norte, region hit by fires, there is only one psychologist at the service and in permanence. As you know, Prime Minister, the NAP has already defended the increase in the number of psychologists in the National Health Service since it arrived in Parliament. We want to know, today, what the immediate answer will be,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u120	... in the short and medium term, of the government in order to ensure the psychological and emotional well-being of these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u122	Mr President, Mr André Silva, even today at the meeting with the Chambers, I was with Mr Minister of Health, Mr President of ARS and Mr Director of the SUS (Single Health System ) who have been guaranteeing this psychological support, which has also been assured by the company of Marines in Pedrogão Grande. The work we have to do is not only, as I said, to give the emergency support that is being given today and that needs to be intensified, but also to provide the region with the necessary capacity for continued support. We must have a good idea that this is not a passenger trauma. It may be that the news ceases to be news, but this is a trauma that, unfortunately, will remain in those territories for many years, in many families and in many inhabitants, and that requires a lasting and continuous response, even when it ceases to be the news opening of the television news. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-28.u123	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have thus come to the end of the work on today's agenda. The meeting tomorrow begins at 3 p.m. and a PSD marking is on the agenda for a political debate on the safety, protection and assistance of people during the tragic Pedrogão Grande fire. I would like to thank you here for the way this debate and the Conference of Leaders and the votes that everything continues to run like this in the next debates. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 55 minutes.]]
