ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the authorities to open the galleries. The agenda for today is filled with a debate requested by the PSD on « Knowledge and creation of value », while the projects of lein. 619 / XIII ( 3 ) are under discussion together. ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 55 / 2013 of 17 April approving the organization of the Foundation for Science and Technology, IP ( PSD ), 620 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 448 / 79 of 13 November approving the Statute of the University Teacher Career ( PSD ) and 621 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 185 / 81 of 1 July approving the Statute of the College of Political Higher Education ( PSD ), generally together with draft resolutions No 1069 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of the employment of doctors in society ( PSD ), 1070 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of an intellectual property policy to encourage investment and innovation ( PSD ) and 1071 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of technology transfer between universities and politicians and society ( PSD ). To begin the debate and present the legislative initiatives, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The Social Democratic Party today presents the debate six initiatives on "Knowledge and creation of value". Knowledge is today, in a world where science tends to push the limits to infinite, what Noah Harari has designated as the "one progressive resource", that is, the only thing that, the more it is used, the more it is. To know more means to investigate and discover new realities, new forms of progress that will translate into greater economic growth and what really matters at the end, into greater development of society. Creating social and economic value corresponds exactly to transforming scientific results, usually produced in an academic environment, into factors of competitiveness and differentiation that allow for economic gains in the market and significant social improvements. Despite the strong awareness of the impact of innovation on economic development, public policies for the enhancement of knowledge over the last 15 years have not had the expected success. In Portugal, a very significant investment in R & D ( research and development) has been recorded in the last decade, with indicators such as the number of doctors and scientific articles published or patented, to place us proudly above the European average. however, and according to the European Innovation Scoreboard 2017, in terms of the economic and innovation impacts Portugal is far from expected. The science and technology system remains very closed in the public sphere and almost exclusively assigned to the higher education sector, having difficulty contagious other sectors, public and private, responsible for creating wealth, including cultural and artistic. It is urgent to speed up the growth of the economic and social return of this very long public effort. Knowledge and value creation treat a reality that involves three worlds: higher education, the knowledge transfer system and the real economy. Three worlds with missions, weights and concerns necessarily different, where public policies have a fundamental role in promoting their articulation and in obtaining a systemic dialogue and culturally virtuous approach. In fact, either due to failures in the dissemination of research results or due to difficulties of mutual alignment between the world of research and the market, either by the sectoral allocation of investment, or also because the results of research are integrated into companies located outside the country, for many of them and certainly other reasons, public policies have been poorly effective in the face of desirable. The proposals we make aim to signal and contribute to two central concerns: people and the value of innovation. When we talk in people we speak in researchers and teachers, but also in knowledge transfer technicians, entrepreneurs and other actors. The projects of lein.o 620 and 621 / XIII ( 3. a ), by introducing as the object of the teaching service the value of knowledge and the flexibility of it for shorter periods, they aim, without distorting the respective statutes of university and technical teaching careers, to value the work of the teacher and to promote his immersion in business context, so that teachers and researchers can better understand and understand the limitations and challenges of companies. Draft resolution No 1069 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) on the promotion of the employment of doctors in society, proposes, among other recommendations, the establishment of a national programme for the promotion of doctorates, designed with the social partners, the use of networks such as Euaxiss and, of course, the resumption of the Programme of Doctoral Scholarship, in companies, FCT ( Foundation for Science and Technology). Regarding the second concern, the appreciation of innovation, we present Bill No. 619 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), which aims to give competence to the FCT in order to be able to conduct an evaluation of national science and knowledge enhancement activities and to enable the Assembly of the Republic to exercise its supervisory role. Only what is known and measured can be improved and valued. Draft resolution No 1070 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) on the promotion of an intellectual property policy, in particular, aims to encourage training on intellectual property in the system and to measure its economic impact in Portugal. Innovation is valued to the extent that awareness of and protection of the rights imposed on it is reinforced. Finally, draft resolution No 1071 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), concerning the promotion of technology transfer between universities and politicians and society, aims to see enhanced collaboration between the protections — Ministry of Economics and Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education — in particular in the provision and cross-section of public data, the development of evidence-concept programmes, as well as the promotion of public policies of royalties that can assist higher education institutions in matters of high technicality and lateral nature in relation to their essential mission. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not here today to list what is wrong with science and innovation, although we know that the appreciation of knowledge has been an unsuspecting area and that there is a vacuum of public policies. This happens on the science side, which in 2016 assisted the lowest funding of this decade ; on the side of investment in R & D activities, with Parliament approving lower appropriations of 4, 4 % compared to 2015 appropriations, and the transfer of knowledge. The data from the 2016 Survey to the National Scientific and Technological Potential ( IPCTN ) show unequivocally that it was the companies that made the greatest contribution to research and development. with regard to the creation of value, some measures have been taken, many successively announced, without additional financial envelope and often without funding at all. However, few or no policies have been implemented. In the coming weeks, we will discuss the State budget for 2018 and we hope that the Government will take the opportunity to implement some measures in this area. The PSD will not steal to contribute constructively, as this debate does, to the implementation of effective public policies. If we believe — and we believe — that the goals to be established in Portugal knowledge and innovation 2020 - 2030 are a national commitment that public policy will have to safeguard, then we will have to approach players in the enhancement of knowledge, increase the number of doctors in companies, increase private and public investment in R & D and show our entrepreneurs that it is worth believing in the potential for innovation of our science. Thank you very much and we will, of course, be available to answer the questions you want to put. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u3	Madam Member, you have signed up to ask for clarification. Deputies Luís Monteiro, from BE, Porfirio Silva, from PS, and Ana Rita Bessa, from CDS-PP. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u4	Mr President, at the end of the day I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u5	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u6	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the PSD and Mrs Margarida Mano for bringing to debate such an important issue for the country, for higher education, for science and technology policies, but also for the real economy. I take advantage of just a few words and the presentation that had the opportunity to make about the review of the career statutes of teachers, both of polytechnic higher education and of higher education. I would like to remind the PSD that, not long ago, we discussed here, precisely, the increase in the minimum wage and the argument of the PSD and right was that the minimum wage could only be changed after discussion in social consultation. Well, I'm scared now to see the PSD want to change career statutes without even hearing a union, without opening a plural debate here. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u7	What the law itself says is that the statutes of career should be reviewed, yes, with an open, comprehensive public discussion, with those who build higher education and science every day in this case. Therefore, we well understand the arguments on the right in this matter: to increase the national minimum wage goes to social consultation; to change the career statutes do not listen to the unions. Well, we've already met the PSD psyche and it's becoming more and more evident the dead end of the alley. And it is also clear why they do not want to hear the unions about this review, in particular to hear these proposals on the review of career statutes. Mrs Margarida Mano says, in a very careful way, that it is very important to have teachers working in companies. Well, it would also be important to realize—and this is the question we left at the beginning of the debate—how can we admit that teachers... there are teachers who are part of the staff framework of these institutions working in research projects, who have done a career research, particularly on real economy, on the business market. in fact, they do not need to work for companies with wages that they take up in higher education institutions. What is needed, yes, is to bet on research projects that are more capable of making that connection. But, in fact, what the PSD is proposing to us today is a perversion of career status, actually using the workforce, the human resources of the institutions to good-grade the interests of the private. The Left Block does not participate in this kind of somewhat hidden openings to put a public service working for private interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u8	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u9	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Margarida Mano and the PSD Parliamentary Group for bringing to the debate the theme "knowledge and value creation", which is in fact a subject that we all recognize as relevant to our country and to the development of our resources. Madam Member, I would like to ask you three very specific questions and I will leave more comprehensive views on the PSD proposals for further action. The first question relates to the fact that the PSD proposes an amendment to the organic law of the FCT. I would like to ask Mrs Margarida Mano to what extent in this proposal, two very important elements of reflection have been taken into account in recent times: on the one hand, the report of the Reflection Group on the Future of the FCT and on the other hand the report of the Reflection Group on the Assessment of Science and Technology by the FCT. Since the PSD proposals, with regard to the organics of the CTF, relate to the role of the CTF and the evaluation, it seems relevant to us to know to what extent the work of these two reflection groups was taken into account in your proposals. The second question — and I remain in the framework of questions — concerns the most global subject, which basically reflects the theme of "knowledge and value creation", the link between academia, scientific research and economic and social fabric. I would like to know, Mrs Margarida Mano, what is the assessment she makes, because I do not see any trace of this evaluation in your proposals, of several, but I quote two, realities in full course at this time, namely: on the one hand, the technology interface centres (ITC) which are part of the Portuguese Industry Training Programme, which is one of the initiatives of the INTERFACE Programme ; and on the other hand, collaborative laboratories, which, with different institutional arrangements, are part of a wide-ranging front of various branches of the Government to act on this matter. Therefore, I would also like to know whether these realities are in line with the proposals that the PSD now brings here. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, another very concrete question has to do with the following, we have taken the idea, reading the proposals, which we have carefully done, and also collaboratively within our parliamentary group, that there persists in some aspects of the PSD proposals a confusion between scientific employment and advanced training of human resources. Therefore, Mrs Margarida Mano, I would like to ask you very specifically whether the PSD persists in a confusion between scientific employment and advanced human resources training or whether it agrees, as the Government has promoted and the Socialist Party has supported, with a clear distinction between what is, on the one hand, advanced human resources training and, on the other hand, scientific employment, since the link between these two realities is very important to know whether we will continue on a journey to combat precariousness and separation of situations that are different, or whether we will continue to mix things that should not be mixed, which has been done to the detriment of science itself, but also to the disadvantage of scientific workers themselves. These were three very specific questions, Mrs Deputies, which I would like to leave to you, to the extent that we greatly appreciate the subject, the initiative, the overall hat of the proposals, although we probably do not agree with the concrete content of the package. But as we like to ask questions and hear the answer to judge, I leave these questions to you for now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u10	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u11	Mr President, I would also like to welcome the PSD for the debate that brings us here today on knowledge and value creation. It is a debate that convenes two sectors, that of science and the economy, and in particular the transfer of knowledge from one side to the other. But in order for this to happen, it is essential that there is indeed investment in science—and investment in fundamental science be applied—because otherwise we cannot even talk about this transfer of knowledge. So, even in the line of what Mr Porfirio Silva asked us to do — and in view of the figures that have brought us here and which are known to the General State Account on the implementation of the higher education and science programme, which in 2016 had a less than 1, 5 % in relation to 2015, although it is successively said to us that there is an increase in the investment in science – I ask you, Mrs Margarida Mano : in this scenario, does it seem to you that all the programmes that the Government has entered, for example, the INTERFACE Programme, in its National Reform Programme are credible, from the point of view of effectiveness, as regards the transfer of knowledge? By insisting, I ask: If there is no investment in science, will any programs that intend to make a transfer from a base that is not fed? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u12	In reply, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions put to me and the kind words spoken by all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Luís Monteiro, I believe that there is a profound ideological difference between our two parliamentary groups. Therefore, this difference can be concealed in the debate through formal questions. In fact, I find it interesting that the Left Block now changes its position on whether the parliamentary process should begin here or before, with hearings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u14	Now, now! That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u15	But basically, what is on the table is the beginning of a process where naturally we will have completely different perspectives. Thus, we do not see, in any way, the stay of a career teacher for a period, which cannot be more than one year, in the development of a research project of recognized scientific merit in a company, as something negative. On the contrary, we believe that the public service is to be at the service of society, not to be closed in a public building, wherever it may be.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u17	Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to begin by thanking you for all your questions and telling you that there are three very clear questions here about the measures taken with regard to the technological interface and collaborative laboratories, and on this subject I would also reply to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been taken into account that the measures exist and, therefore, in my speech, I said that some measures have been taken. What we think, and it is clear, is that we have a lot of difficulty in realizing that this happens, but we hope to see and be able to applaud its success, when there are no financial means available to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u19	So basically, in this context, I think we will have paid tribute to the measures being taken. On the question of scientific employment and advanced training of human resources, there is no doubt that these are different things that we respect very much. What we are deeply convinced about is that scientific employment cannot be only public. contrary to what the Minister and the Government want with the policies they implement, we are convinced that scientific employment cannot only be public, scientific employment must be naturally and centrally a job that is in higher education institutions and public institutions of science, but cannot be only public for the creation of value. Therefore, our proposal comes in that direction. As for the organic law of the FCT, the question is very simple: we know the group's reports well, I fear them on the table, but this question of knowledge and value creation is a matter of limit, of frontier between science and the economy. And what we think is that there may be other ways of doing the evaluation and we are obviously available to work on them. Now, what we cannot have is a science without being evaluated and without even being measured, from the point of view of what the appreciation of knowledge is.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u20	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u21	And looking at existing agencies, foundations and institutes, it seems to us that the best thing is that this will start to be done by the FCT. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u22	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is presenting today a set of proposals which are generally framed by the theme « knowledge and value creation ». The PS recognizes the importance of the topic, and it is not of today that recognition, it is clear immediately in the XXI Constitutional Government Programme and is at the heart of the National Reform Programme. But the Socialist Party and the Government do not just recognize the issue, they act, they do. And we cannot fail to mention, for example, the Portuguese Industry Training Programme, which represents one of the initiatives of the INTERFACE Programme and which aims, in particular, to increase the capacity of R & D and innovation in SMEs, enhancing its link to the innovation system through the Technology Interface Centres. in this context, there are incentives to hire doctors to develop their activities in a business context, incentives for teachers and researchers to develop part of their research activities in the Technology Interface Centers, including their participation in R & D projects, or incentives for the Technology Interface Centers to function as hosting entities of doctoral scholarships. We could also refer to the strengthening of investment in polytechnics, so that they are developed as strategic institutions in their territories, through strengthened linkage to economic, social and cultural fabric. And we must not fail to mention the collaborative laboratories, now that the competition for the recognition of the Collaborative Laboratory title has been open in permanence since 10 October, and this recognition will then allow to compete with specific funding. These collaborative laboratories come to create qualified employment and scientific employment through the implementation of research and innovation agendas aimed at creating economic and social value. Collaborative laboratories also respond to a territorial equity challenge, insofar as knowledge-based activities should be democratized throughout the national territory, through an increasing consolidation of collaboration between science, technology and higher education institutions and the economic and social fabric, the hospital and health system, cultural institutions and social organizations. in your package of proposals, the PSD reports that none of this exists. in this sense, the proposals that the PSD presents to us today live in an unreality fiction of those who do not want to look at what is being done, perhaps because it is difficult for them to recognize that what is being done is being done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, if the PS recognises the importance of the theme « knowledge and value creation », which the PSD wanted to bring today the debate, it does not recognize significant added value in the proposals presented, and sees even some critical political errors. With Bill No. 619 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), the PSD proposes a timely change to the organic law of the FCT. Now, of course, this option does not seem to us to be productive by point-to-point and broken-down changes in the organic law of an institution such as the FCT. But less we can agree with what is proposed in terms of the evaluation of the National Scientific and Technological System ( SCTN ) and the transfer of knowledge. The PSD insists on the mistakes of its own past, when, under the responsibility of its government, it has seriously undermined the credibility and fairness of the science assessment procedures by ignoring the voice and experience of the scientific community itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] this time, there is no trace in the PSD proposals of having at least taken into account the work of the Reflection Group on the Future of the FCT, nor the report of the Reflection Group on the Assessment of Science and Technology by the FCT - and we are not discussing Mrs Margarida Mano's speech, we are discussing the proposals because that is what is under discussion and that is what we are going to vote on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] on the contrary, while the Reflection Group welcomes the most advanced concerns of the scientific community at international level, fighting for a vision of science that « goes beyond simply accounting for quantified impacts », by an assessment of science that goes beyond « exaggerated proliferation of misinformed and poorly applied metrics» (and I am using not my expressions but expressions of the report ), the proposal of the PSD continues to insist on such metrics and loses sight of the most advanced perspectives at international level covering the multiple dimensions by which research influences the advance of knowledge and appreciate more than quantity, the quality of scientific performance and the appropriation of research results by social, economic and cultural fabric. Another element of the PSD's package of proposals consists of a minimalist amendment to the Statute of the University Teacher Career and the Status of the College of Political Higher Education Careers. It is, in fact, such a minimalistic amendment that it seems to allow no real innovation, nothing that would fall within the existing Statutes. And so far we see some problems, such as the possibility of putting higher education institutions to finance human resources solely for the benefit of some company. And so far we see some problems, such as the possibility of putting higher education institutions to finance human resources solely for the benefit of some company. Dispersed with the various proposals, there are also recommendations for doing what is already done. For example, it is not necessary to recommend to the government that they bet on promoting enterprise R & D(research and development), because what the PSD proposes is recommended to the government is less than what is already being done. And yet, for example, doctoral scholarships can already be carried out in cooperation with companies or other institutions, it is not necessary now to recommend what is already done and can be done. Is everything done? He won't be. Is everything that's being done perfect? It won't be. But the Government and the Socialist Party have a strategy that is being implemented and what the PSD proposes ignores this reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need to evolve institutionally. We have relevant institutions on the side of higher education and science. We have good companies, capable of development based on intelligent knowledge-based strategies. We need to develop institutions that link knowledge and value creation, institutions that make science pull by companies and that make companies pull by science. This institutional development strategy is under way. Unfortunately, the set of projects that the PSD brings to the debate today does not add to what is being done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u24	Mr Porfirio Silva, the Bureau has a request for clarification. We will expect you to take your place again to give the floor to Mr António Costa Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] Mr António Costa Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Porfirio Silva, thank you for bringing these issues to debate, which are very important, but you have forgotten a fundamental question: it is that you have spoken only about science and the PSD proposals speak of the umbilical connection of the scientific and technological world to the business world.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u27	That is the central issue and you ignore the second part, which is fundamental. But you have to explain why, having spent two years—and two years is a long time—the applications for the development of infrastructures in the field of technology transfer do not exist. It's been two years! Why are no applications for the creation of science and technology parks available? It's been two years! Why are there no competitions for the creation of technology-based incubators? It's been two years! Why are there no applications for the creation of business farmers? They don't exist! It's been two years! Why does the creation of business nests not exist? It doesn't exist! It's been two years! Why are there no business centre projects? They don't exist! It's been two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u28	They don't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u29	And competitions for creating business reception areas for innovative projects? They don't exist! It's been two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u31	But do you know why? You know why two years went by and they didn't do anything? It is, in fact, simple: the incompetence of the government that you support. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u32	Incompetence! [[PSD applause.]] For those who have ideas, for those who have projects, for those who have initiatives, two years is a long time! in these areas, young people, incubators, start-ups, spin-offs with innovative projects cannot develop because they do not open contests. Don't open! Don't raise your head, 'cause you don't really open up! And you know why? Because there is something called mapping of scientific and technological infrastructures. Two years have passed since it was delivered to the ANI, the National Innovation Agency, and nothing has been done. Zero! There's nothing done and it's been two years. This is, in fact, an ex ante condition of the Community funds of Portugal 2020 and this inoperability prevents scientific and technological system entities from being able to transfer technology to the business world, which is expected to do so. from there the PSD initiative : lack start-ups, spin-offs, lack innovation, especially young entrepreneurs in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u33	Your intervention is that it is a start-up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u34	...and you are failing to do all the time in technology transfer, transfer from the academic world, scientific and technological world to the business world. This is an area that should be strategic for Portugal and is not due to lack of money, because in Portugal 2020 there are funds programmed for this subject specifically. It's been half the picture, which is four years, and they did zero, they didn't do anything! What is the real reason for this failure? It's government incompetence! Incompetence of the government! They even succeeded in putting an end to what was an idea of the previous government — look well! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u35	Oh, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u36	... ended with the centre of excellence of the universities of the interior, of the Beira Interior, of the UTAD (Université de Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro), of Évora. They succeeded in putting an end to this excellent idea, a fundamental idea that also linked the scientific and technological world of universities from within to the business world. Once again, they failed! They failed round and round! Then don't come here to talk about policies for the interior, innovation policies, etc. It was in order to strengthen this fundamental area that the PSD presented these draft resolutions and you must justify why you have not yet presented the mappings in Brussels and say whether this delay makes any sense. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u37	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u38	Mr President, Mr António Costa Silva, thank you... Mr Mr I don't know if you want to hear the answer. I suppose so, so I was giving you some time...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u39	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u40	Mr President, if you would like a copy of my speech, I can offer you. It's just that, since you say that I just talked about science and didn't talk about business, it's because you didn't hear it. I understand, sometimes we have to be dealing with other matters at the same time, but I can offer you a written copy to see that this statement that I did not speak of the various components of your proposals is a wrong statement. There's a copy here, if you want it, sir. As far as the matter is concerned, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u41	Are you going to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u42	... I have a certain penalty when there are Members of a certain parliamentary group who are doing the work, they make an effort to put forward proposals, and then there are other Members of the same parliamentary group who do not work to deal with these same proposals and want to talk about other matters. [[PSD protests.]] At least the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has honored this debate by discussing the proposals that are at the table, because it has read them, because it has studied them, and because it is about the proposals that are under discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u43	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u44	Unfortunately, some of them. Members confuse the proposals that are presented with the speeches. We do not vote speeches, we do not vote generic statements, we vote proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u45	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u46	... and what you said was not at all about the proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u47	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u48	Mr. António Costa Silva... [[PSD protests.]] I didn't know the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen liked to hear while they were making noises, but I hope so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u49	It's because they don't like what they're hearing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u50	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for some silence for Mr Porfirio Silva to continue. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u51	It's a debate on education, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u52	I thought there was also an element of education in this debate, but apparently it fails. [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]] Mr António Costa Silva, you must not understand anything of what institutional development is to link academia, research and economic fabric to think that in two years you can perform miracles and you can reverse what you have not left — I repeat, what you have not left! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, at least ask your colleague, Mrs Margarida Mano, because she knows and will explain that these questions about the two years that have passed do not make sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u53	Who says that everything is missing, who says that they haven't done anything in two years, who says that they were working excellent things and that they are not now, is because they don't understand strictly anything about what is at stake in institutional development.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u54	Look at the mal-educated! What a lack of education!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u55	Sir, I'm just asking you to stop five seconds to breathe. [[PS laughter.]] Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u56	Mr. President, breathe, I'm breathing, but I don't like talking to people who don't want to hear. [[PSD protests.]] Mr António Costa Silva, we are here to discuss, with all seriousness, the proposals that the PSD has put forward, we are not discussing what it has not done, because we already know that. We want budgetary discussions and we are going to have this budgetary debate in due course, it is coming here. But they do not always use the technique — which is not new — to put forward proposals and then want us to discuss not the proposals but the speeches on occasion. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] We're here to discuss the proposals. The questions and statements we have made relate to the proposals, because they are of interest to us. And on the proposals, what we have to repeat is that the PSD proposals presented in this debate do not add a line to what is being done by the government in this legislature. PSD proposals recommend doing what is already being done... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...and, in many cases, they are even more backward, they are even more conservative and they are even more shot back than what is already being done, but we will discuss the proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u57	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017, Portugal has a mature scientific and technological system and a growing economy. That is, in 2017, there is enough critical mass to make bridges with mutual advantages between science institutions and companies, without having to subordinate each other. It is therefore false the idea that the country has a choice between science and economics. What is true is that the robustness of the two sectors will be necessary for these bridges to arise naturally. The institutions of the scientific and technological system have as their mission the creation of knowledge, either of fundamental science or of applied science. We cannot give in to immediacy because we do not have the usefulness of the results of an investigation, but we cannot lose sight of the development role that scientific production can and should have. In 2016, Portugal invested 1, 27 % of GDP (gross domestic product) in science, below the European Union average of 2 % and the European target of 3 %. A relevant piece of funding is provided by the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) and 2016 was the year in which the lowest value of this decade was found, as already mentioned here. at the same time, and considering all the support, it is not possible to state that between 2011 and 2015 there was any discrimination between fundamental science and applied science. on the economic side, and through the National Scientific and Technological Potential Survey ( IPCTN ), it is known that 51 % of R & D investment is secured by 100 companies such as PT, Hovione, BCP or Bial, and that of the total people affected by R & D activities, only about 4 % are doctors. The Community Innovation Survey shows that there is a direct relationship between the size of companies and investment in R & D — moreover, as is the case with the registration of patents — and that the use of partnerships occurs first with supplier companies and then only in second choice with universities. Therefore, on the side of the scientific and technological system, we know that investment in science is low and on the economic side, we know that there is a huge prevalence of micro- and SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), smaller R & D investors, with poor presence of doctors in their frameworks. But there are positive developments to be recorded in the relationship between institutions and companies. The first call for the QREN ( National Strategic Reference Framework ) was now worth the interest of fewer than 100 consortia involving 90 companies, but in 2015, in the first call of Portugal 2020, the number of applications was already 270, and in 2016, the number of consortiums of companies, faculties and research centres doubled to 472. According to the President of the National Research Agency, in companies, whether of traditional sectors or not, there is a new generation, with more qualification and with more world, which explains this greater openness to the incorporation of science and technology. It therefore seems consensual to us that the transfer of knowledge between the academy and the economy is a target dimension of the country's public development policy. The PSD now presents us with a set of initiatives which, through higher education institutions, aim to create incentives that, on the one hand, there is greater permeability between institutions and companies, either through a sabbatical in companies, either through the Doctoral Programme, also in companies, and, on the other hand, by fostering the capacity of higher education institutions to create value with economic viability, through a prototyping program and intellectual property. They also propose a change to the FCT's organics to monitor the transfer of knowledge and its impact. in the CDS, we recognize the value of these proposals, which, however, do not exhaust the necessary incentives, especially regarding the policy of valorising knowledge-creators, i.e. researchers. In addition to these dimensions, we are still concerned about how to improve the productivity of the economy in Portugal, a serious issue that has not been addressed consistently and which goes through the innovation of processes and productive means and therefore the relationship between universities and companies. We will therefore be available to work on these projects in the field of expertise. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the relationship between science and the economy has two meanings: when we are effective at transferring knowledge to society, applying new discoveries, meeting real needs and improving the lives of all. But these real needs, the day-to-day problems, are also the matter that feeds science, even if we do not see its direct usefulness. from the point of view of public policy, we are not interested here in playing for the great numbers, arithmetics or politics. It is about working for the right numbers: more qualification; more doctors, of course, but with prospects of employability in the public sector or in the private sector; scientific employment programmes, yes, but that they do not leave out researchers and waste their multiplier effect; encouragement of the relationship between universities, completely agree, but without forgetting that, first and foremost, it is necessary to carry out funding in science. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u59	As there are no entries for requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, only a policy that promotes the science and potential of research, development and innovation can contribute to raising national capacities in terms of development needs and safeguarding the sovereignty of the country. The truth is that the fruits of technological development and research are always the object of an intense desire on the part of the large economic groups who, if they can take advantage of what the public effort has sown, will do so. The progress made in scientific research in Portugal is mainly due to the commitment and dedication of work and public effort with which the national scientific and technological system is built daily, in a context where private effort is distant and far away from what is happening in other countries. The package of measures brought today by the PSD, in addition to not presenting any coherence between themselves, of being avulsive and even ignoring important issues, such as the need to negotiate with the workers while moving in the statutes of university and technical careers, comes in line with what the PSD/CDS government has executed. Nothing more than subordinate scientific and technological production to these market needs, trying to simplify tools for national R & D to be profitably exploited by large companies. For the CFP, the solution cannot go by paying with public funding the salaries of doctors and researchers in private companies and assign tax benefits to private institutions that declare the investment of millions in R & D and then, in fact, have very few or no doctors in their full-time frames. The right-wing policy of successive governments, which in the time of the PSD/CDS government translated into the option of a genuine dismantling of the national scientific and technological system, made human resources management blocked in rights and supported almost exclusively in the use of pockets and precarious hiring of workers. Alongside this, the destruction carried out on the national production apparatus brought dramatic consequences for the country's own development, which are also evident in this area. According to the main final results of the National Scientific and Technological Potential Survey, total spending on research and development fell between 2011 and 2015 — therefore, responsibility of the PSD/CDS government —, 332 million euros, between public and private. In terms of the total number of staff and researchers in full-time research and development activities per 1000 assets, we continue in the second half of the EU Table 28. The per capita expenditure per researcher in full-time equivalent is also far from what is happening in other countries, an average of about 44 thousand euros in 2015. For PCP, the development of productive forces is highly desirable and our country needs this advance. The advantages inherent in opportunities to promote development must be accompanied by social and political progress. This does not ignore the real problem of the appropriation of technological development gains by large monopolistic companies, an appropriation that extends to the most various areas of our lives, through patents and intellectual property, which translate into real blocks to the transfer and dissemination of knowledge. It is interesting to see today the PSD full of initiatives, which says they are positive for science, for research, for the development of the country, but the truth is that when the PSD was in the government "he had the knife and cheese in his hand" to counter and reverse a long process of de-investment in human and material means, accompanied by an attack on workers' rights and a growing precarious labour relations, and indeed, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you didn't even want to do it, and that's what it was like to be constructive. The chronic and galloping underfinancing of public higher education and state laboratories and the absence of a programming and planning policy resulted in a policy to dismantle the country's scientific and technological potential. With regard to state laboratories, I recall that one month from the legislative elections and after a period of four years of indecision regarding the future of the Military Laboratory, the PSD Government / CDS, instead of cysne, does not cease to pursue its destructive journey of everything that is public and strategic, opting for its extinction. This is not to say in the disaster of the evaluation process of the research units that the PSD and the CDS have played, causing a massive financial asphyxiation of these institutions, in a process filled with lack of transparency and irregularities. And we well remember how public investment in research and development and higher education was cut, year after year, in the order of millions of euros by the previous government. The PSD, backed by the CDS, sees science and technology only as a way to create highly specialized workforce for exploitation and export, not seeing them as workers with rights and as a fundamental instrument for national sovereignty, while leading up to a policy of national, technological, economic and social destruction with a view to political submission and the transfer of sovereignty to great national and transnational interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't count on the PCP to take that path. The CFP advocates the existence of a coherent and robust national scientific and technological system and this existence is, in fact, central to the articulation between the productive sector and social, human and territorial development. The dynamization of the SCTN (National Science and Technology System) is a structural element for a national development strategy based on technological evolution at the service of the country, as is an essential element for the modernization of our production apparatus. And for that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must face up to a structural problem that afflicts science, technology and innovation. This is about precariousness and lack of work with rights. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u61	Let us turn to the intervention of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ruling agenda of the PSD obviously shows clear differences between the vision that the Left Block has always defended for higher education and for science and that which has been, even in the previous legislature, the path that the PSD tried to take to the country. This would be healthy because of the ideological and political reasons in which these two different political forces differ, which is always greeting, but the truth is that they are closing in on themselves a set of very dangerous measures for cohesion and for a public service that has been attacked in recent years. And let's go back to the question of review of career statutes. The Left Block cannot admit, firstly, that some kind of review of career statutes is done outside a public discussion with industry forces, social forces, trade unions, institutions, and much less when the content of this review of career statutes presented to us here is no less than offering free labour to businesses and making universities and political institutes centres of service delivery.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u63	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u64	In short, these proposals consist of the model that PSD has on higher education and science, a kind of near-market producer of cheap but qualified labour, where companies can find human resources by paying less and serving their particular interests. We are out of this game and we denounce him today as yesterday and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u66	On the dynamics of the FCT, it should also be noted that the Left Block made all discussions in the Assembly of the Republic ensuring transparency and combating measures of transparency and independence of the national science and technology system in relation to private interests and government bodies themselves. We cannot accept a proposal that seems to place the FCT as central to the evaluation of the performance of science policies in Portugal, when behind this evaluation there is a problem of transparency. We cannot admit that the FCT, which analyzes applications and distributes funding, is also that at the end of these projects will evaluate the results, whether they are positive or negative. The question would become even more worrisome if the FCT were protected by the government, because we would have a real entropy of the system in which the government could indirectly analyse these policies from a quantitative but also a qualitative point of view. instead, we are interested in this, the Left Block, to place the creation of employment in science, the creation of employment with rights and the fight against precariousness at the heart of this debate. The draft resolutions presented here do not actually present concrete measures. They have criticised here the measures or lack of them in recent years. There is much to be done, of course, but concrete measures must be put forward on the other side of the coin. And on these same measures we can also have a very important debate here. at this time, we are discussing a very important project, the PREVPAP ( Program of extraordinary regularization of precarious links in Public Administration ). Since the beginning of this whole process, it was the intention of the Left Block, realized through a proposal, to ensure that higher education and science were not left out, that the FCT researchers did not stay out of the door, that the pockets and the false scholarships were not left out, that the false teachers invited, the hired year by year and the false partial times were not left out. Today we can say that by the negotiations and votes that have been taken out of this House of the Republic, on a proposal from the Left Block, we guarantee a large part of these advances. But we can also ask what were the PSD positions in relation to PREVPAP. For example, they voted against the Left Block proposal so that the management, science and technology pockets would have a framework in a specific career, so as not to lose pay. PSD voted against. Only because of pure political hypocrisy is that we can now, here, admit a debate, actually hidden, which ignores that at the times and at the right times the Left Block was there, and also the PSD, but, exactly, against these same measures. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members, only for pure political hypocrisy and for mere interest in the political-party agenda! To combat precariousness, to dignify higher education and those who build it every day it is urgent to break up, at times, with a cycle of chronic de-investment. We have lost one third of the investment in higher education and science since 2010. To ensure stability in the daily lives of higher education institutions, research centres, state laboratories must be a priority, must have a medium- and long-term strategy, but must be built from now on. For institutions to overcome this problem, they cannot continue to live immersed in the underfunding in which they live. Let us look, for example, at the University of the Interior, which is experiencing serious funding problems today. It is imperative to strengthen the budget of higher education and science, whether in transfers to higher education institutions, whether in social action measures, or to defuse career progress and combat precariousness. in relation to social action, I recall that, since 2013 — and prove – statistical data — more than half of the investment in stock exchanges has become guaranteed, mostly, by Community funds or directly by higher education institutions, with their own mechanisms. We therefore admit today that the State invests only less than half in direct social action, particularly in social action grants. This is a statistical data. They may say it's symbolic, but it's also revealing the numbers that have been getting worse over time. Compared to other European higher education systems, public money invested in social action is small. Even in countries where the user-payer logic prevails, which we dispute, social action mechanisms are much more effective and representative in the budgets of these states and higher education institutions themselves. I shall finish by saying that from unions to leaders of institutions, teachers and researchers to students there is a cry of indignation, but above all hope for this government solution. Higher education needs a budget that will dignify it, you and those who work there, study and build it every day. from the Bloc, here we will be, as we have always been, for a higher education equipped with instruments to reach ever more citizens; from an increasingly free science—free of all private instruments that try to swallow it from year to year, but also free of its scientific production capacity; from a system of higher education and science free of precariousness and with a clear degree of scientific freedom and critical knowledge. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the ability to go to the limit of time without going beyond it for a second. Great! Mr Pedro Coimbra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the PSD Parliamentary Group for this agenda on knowledge and value creation. We will certainly all agree that a society is all the more socially and economically developed as much as we know how to value science, knowledge, education and, therefore, the creation of added value. I would like to focus on the three draft resolutions tabled, which, it is said, have both important and contemporary. It is that the PSD — I suppose by political will and deliberately, because I do not believe it did so by distraction — has ignored the much that has been done well in recent times and that they are objective, proven facts and that they meet, exactly, much of the proposals presented today. Let us see: in the first draft resolution, the PSD recommends to the Government the promotion of the use of doctors in society. Right! We agree! What the PSD cannot ignore is that, for the current government, the hiring of doctors is a priority, which is already provided for in the resolution of the Council of Ministers setting up the Portuguese Industry Training Programme ( CITec ), which represents one of the Interface initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u70	This is a cross-sectional programme, which involves several areas of governance and has as one of the main objectives to increase the capacity of R & D and innovation for small and medium-sized enterprises, providing their link to the innovation system through the technology interface centres and facilitating access by these entities to highly qualified human resources. The Programme provides support for the strengthening and contracting of human resources, including highly qualified doctors and technicians, as I have already said, through the creation of incentive mechanisms. in the second draft resolution, the PSD recommends the promotion of an intellectual property policy that promotes investment and innovation. Right! We agree, too! What the PSD cannot ignore is that for the current government also the protection of intellectual property has been a priority, which we consider to be closely related to R & D and innovation, having been developed incentive systems that support the registration of industrial property rights, namely: one, the system of industrial property incentives; two, the system of incentives for research and technological development; three, the system of incentives for the qualification of SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) of Portugal 2020; four, the system of support for scientific and technological research. in the third draft resolution, the PSD recommends to the Government the promotion of technology transfer between universities and political institutes and society. Right! Once again, we all agree! What the PSD cannot also ignore is that the Portuguese Industry Training Programme – which I have already mentioned and to which I return – represents initiatives Interface much more comprehensive and ambitious than those recommended by the PSD to the Government. The interface aims to strengthen links between companies, universities, politics and technological centres by enhancing the development of synergies between companies and the strengthening of the link between scientific knowledge and business innovation, with the main objective of strengthening the competitiveness of Portuguese companies through the enhancement of national products, the increase in innovation and the improvement of their integration into international value chains. For all this, and also, certainly, as far as it does not belong here now, I want to welcome the PSD, because, despite the significant delay, I do not want to stay out of this debate, which has been initiated by the Socialist Party for a long time, and whose political action is translated and is visible in the valid and important initiatives carried out by the current government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u71	Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Coimbra, I have listened very carefully to you. We have heard many times here about reality, reality, there exists, there does not exist, but the facts, Mr. Member, are on this chart of the FCT website. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed an FCT chart on performance by areas of action.]] We are talking about the implementation of the millions allocated to science over the past few years—that is what we are talking about. Here are well expressed the years of the troika, coming down, and here is your first year, which continues to descend, with a particularity: only goes down because the blue-clear square, above, which indicates that it has grown, is that of international relations. The value of scholarships and programmes directed both to university institutions and to companies continues to decline. Mr, these are facts from the FCT website. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member speaks in resolutions, in intentions, but the fact is that half the legislature has passed and it would be important for you, who is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, to clarify the issues which Mr António Costa Silva recently raised, to which, out of ignorance, Mr Porfirio Silva certainly could not answer. How many technology-based incubators have been created in the last two years through the programs that the FCT had and no longer had? How many farmers — which were planned and which, due to the lack of funding, did not happen — have been released? How many science and technology parks were created under the provisions that existed and for which no competitions were opened? These are the issues. Mapping missing. That is why, Mr President, I would like you to answer these questions, to clarify all these issues and to reconsider what you said about companies, because the last competition in the Business Fellowships programme opened in May 2015 and there was no more. This is important, and it is one of our draft resolutions. Perhaps it was worth the PS Parliamentary Group and the others to look at this issue and realize that recovering what was working and that there was already a lot of people working is better than there is nothing. The intentions he mentioned in two years have resulted in this: not one, not one, unless you show where they are going. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u73	To reply, Mr Pedro Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u74	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, I would like to congratulate you and thank you for your questions. Of course, I will not have time to answer in detail to everything, so I would recommend that you read carefully from a document that you have proved here, now, that you do not know, which is the Survey of the National Scientific and Technological Potential (IPCTN), dated August 2017, where you will find much of the answers, not to say all, to the questions you have put me and where you will find ways to verify that, in fact, what I said here does not correspond to the reality of the country as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u75	The little diner is here on this graph!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u76	I read a conclusion of this same study : « The total expenditure in R & D in Portugal reached EUR 2348 million in 2016, representing 1 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ), finally reverseing the trend of continuous decline between 2010 and 2015 and confirming the resumption of the convergence process with Europe. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u77	Public money, Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u78	And he adds: « The value of 2016 exceeds R & D spending levels recorded in 2015, at EUR 114 million showing that R & D expenditure increased by more than 5 % than the relative increase in GDP. In 2015 the national R & D expenditure had been EUR 2234 million, representing 1, 2 % of GDP. Do not keep on seeking. ” I believe that this conclusion is clearly a demonstration of the reversal of the policies that the current government has implemented in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents today a number of initiatives that aim to facilitate the transfer of knowledge and technology between higher education institutions and R & D units, increasingly entering companies, an unquestionable source of economic growth and wealth for the country. We know that this is a path that leads us to add value, quality of life, well-being and to ensure the sustainability of economic growth which, I am sure, we all want, without exception. The PSD is a reformist party that looks to the future and that has always kept in mind the importance of approaching people's science, promoting innovation as a vehicle to improve living conditions and, above all, as the driving spring of our country, as a modern society. The PSD has made this path, has presented various measures while it has been government and will not fail to be an active voice in this matter. I recall that we created sectoral councils in various dimensions — heavy industry, footwear industry, textile industry and even agri-food industry — integrating the main actors in various areas of activity; we strengthened intellectual property rights, encouraging the production and registration of knowledge patents that effectively had a potential for economic recovery; we increased the participation of the National Research & Innovation System in the international networks of I & I, supporting our companies in the presentation of competitive proposals for advanced technology and taking advantage of their eligibility to competitions from the large projects and scientific organizations to which Portugal belongs; but we also encouraged companies to seek advanced technological solutions, stimulating work together with higher education institutions and national research units. Today, in presenting these initiatives, we are again insisting that we need to go much further in the transfer of technology between higher education institutions, R & D units to the business fabric and, to that end, we need more monitoring and more and better information. For that purpose, the FCT is the key piece. We are celebrating at this time 20 years of its creation. The history of the FCT is confused with the course of the history of science and technology itself in Portugal, which also shows the growing role of this public agency in the transformation of Portuguese society itself. Making science is moving forward in time and having the opportunity to look with our eyes today the future that is yet to come. Therefore, the PSD wants to value and expand the competences of the CTF, ensuring greater responsibility for information and accountability, particularly before this House. It is true that, because of its national strategic importance, the agency cannot be subject to doubts as to the absolute exemption and integrity of its leadership and its members. The PSD values the FCT as an institution, because we believe in its leaders, its technicians, its researchers, its employees, because we do not just look at the present, we are concerned about the future. in this sense, we propose the extension of its tasks embodied in an annual study on the state of the National Scientific and Technological System and the transfer of knowledge. More and better information are essential for us to evaluate, propose, recommend and decide. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we present here does not fill the immobilism and the delay that governs the performance of Minister Manuel Heitor, but it is an instrument that values the FCT and values democracy. To be sure that we are all united with the purpose that we all want sustainable development for the country and that all initiatives that promote greater transparency, greater evaluation, greater information, more scrutiny, allow better choices and correct political decisions and deepen democracy believe that this PSD initiative can be supported by all. Let science also come to us, without fear of knowing more and, above all, without fear of opening our science to the world! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the final stage of the debate, it is essential to say that discussing science and knowledge is central to the development of the country, so we take good note of these proposals. But the PSD is late for this dialogue because the initiatives it proposes are already being implemented by the various government programmes — the Open Science, the Collaborative Laboratory — in a much more holistic and integrated way than they propose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u83	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u84	It is appropriate to ask where they were in the four years of right-wing governance where the dialogue with universities and researchers was broken, the assessments were disastrous, the disinvestment in science was visible and publicly denounced. Where have you been? Would you like some data? According to the National Scientific and Technological Potential Survey, investment in R & D rose for the first time in 2016 after the regression of recent years. Between 2010 and 2015, Portugal experienced the second largest break in R & D investment across the European Union. Today, we are inverting the downward trend, spending on R & D... [[At the moment, PSD Member Emídio Guerreiro again displayed the FCT chart on performance by areas of activity.]] Mr President, we know these data very well and we can deconstruct them in another context.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u85	All right! Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u86	R & D expenditure has reached 1,3 % of GDP in 2016, obviously far from the European goal, but you have come down and we are now trying to recover. You recommend doctoral employment. For that is what the government is doing with the Stimulation Programme for Scientific Employment which is going, in a short time, and through eight lines of action, to integrate and create opportunities for more 5000 contracts for doctoral researchers ending up with the false scholarships that you have raised. It is appropriate to ask where they walked when they forced the brain drain, where they walked when they sent our young men to forced, highly qualified emigration...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u87	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u88	... and where our country had invested a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u89	It's a shame what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u90	Mr President, even at the end of the day I will say that it is this open science strategy, this science strategy that talks with the communities, of participatory budgets for science to meet the real needs of the people that this government is promoting, and this is called transfer to businesses and to society.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u92	I'm done now, Mr. President. So the debate is important, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they should have done so when they were government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u93	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, of course, is very important in terms of science, in terms of higher education, but it is also a debate which has led us to a discussion which has not been held in Portugal, which is the discussion of the productivity of our economy. I therefore believe that this debate should be held in a climate of serenity, in a climate of respect, something that we have not been able to verify in all the interventions, particularly in the intervention which preceded me. I wanted to focus on the productivity of our economy. We know that without more innovation, without more knowledge, without the production of more value in our economic fabric—and this is only possible with a strong bet, with a detailed bet on all the matter that has to do with science and its connection to the economic fabric, with our economic agents who are still, in the overwhelming majority, small and medium-sized enterprises and that often have, therefore, more difficulty in accessing up to human resources, specialized technicians—we will not be able to increase the productivity of the Portuguese economy, which today begins to be worrying, because the truth is that since the end of 2015 is stagnant and has even returned over the last year. We have to ask ourselves how, in the context of a consolidated economy, which has been increasing employment since 2013 — that is why we have spent more than four years growing our employment and reducing unemployment — we are not able to stimulate productivity. This must lead us to realize that the Portuguese economic potential, which is currently growing, is superior to that which we are achieving, even because of the recovery we are making in terms of employment. That is why we have to ask ourselves whether, from the point of view of a set of instruments that would serve to equip our companies with more conditions, and we are at a time of turn from the point of view of the so-called Industry 4.0, with all that this takes — its size of the Internet of Things, its size of Smart Industries, its size of having a very strong deployment and therefore need a lot of qualification of our human resources — we are, or are not doing everything we should, and unfortunately, we seem to be very short of what we should be doing. from the point of view of the Community frameworks, when we look, for example, at the COMPETE, we see that a set of Community support that should be coming to companies is not happening at the moment. When we look, for example, at a topic related to this but very relevant — that of vocational training and the qualification of the workers themselves who are already in a business context at the moment — we realize that there is a reduction in funding for training and vocational qualification until 2015, and that is quite worrying. When we look at data that should be positive like those in the National Scientific and Technological Potential Survey, we realize that there is a growth in investment in innovation and development, but we also realize that investment growth is made at the expense of the private sector, because curiously, in this report that was cited here today, I think the Socialist Party has forgotten to read a phrase that is very relevant: there is, in fact, a growth in relation to everything that has to do with the business component, with the component of private companies, but there is a decrease in the public sector. So we have to ask ourselves whether or not we are doing everything we should be doing and we clearly realize that the answer is negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u95	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u96	I'm done now, Mr. President. We clearly see that in the part where the Socialist Party prefers to exchange arguments for vocality—it prefers to be very vocal with lack of arguments—it certainly has to do with a negative response, which, unfortunately, today, from the point of view of public policies and support for companies, we are worse than we were in the past. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u97	We're not! We're back!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no knowledge or creation of value without properly valued professionals. But about putting an end to the precariousness that fats in the National Science and Technology System to value researchers by integrating them into their career as a scientific researcher, the PSD does not have a word. It proposes changes to professional careers exceeding the necessary collective bargaining with workers' representative organisations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, no public research and science system can be built on the basis of the devaluation of work, the imposition of unpaid work and the absence of fundamental rights in work and in life. Science has been presenting high levels of precariousness, as a result of years of right-wing policies, de-investment, cuts, human resources, career and wage freezes, and the use of research scholarships, subject to successive contracts, devaluing scientific work to meet the permanent needs of associated laboratories, state laboratories and higher education institutions. With the parliamentary review process of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, steps were taken to ensure greater stability in contracting, the change in FCT funding from three to six years and the equalization of the monthly net remuneration of researchers to a scientific research career. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP believes that we could have gone further to combat precariousness in scientific work and continue to beat us for the rights of these workers, but it was clear here that it is not with the PSD that we can count on to achieve that desire. [[PCP applause.]] Indeed, it has not yet been given a full response to a significant part of the workers of the National Scientific and Technological System, who maintain with the institution where they work a relationship based on precarious links, running from stock exchange, from project to project, 10, 15, 20 years ago, without any protection or rights, when they are providing permanent needs of the institutions. This is an unacceptable form of precariousness and must be a priority for intervention. For this reason, we have proposed replacing the current stock exchange scheme with work contracts that guarantee an effective link between the investigator and the research centre where he works. We also reaffirm that, for the CFP, the national scientific and technological system cannot survive without a body of workers who have an effective working link with rights as an essential condition for a stable professional, personal and family life and for a dignified future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u100	I thank Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira for having fulfilled her time. To close the debate, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking Mrs Elza Pais, Mr Pedro Mota Soares and Mrs Ana Virgínia Pereira for their efforts to close the debate. They asked me where I was between 2011 and 2015. I was in the country's collective effort, with financial responsibilities at a university, to contribute to the country's bankruptcy. That's where I was. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] And because I did not intend, and I do not intend to be a second time in this situation, anywhere, I am in the PSD Parliamentary Group to make my contribution by presenting very concrete proposals that can only be a constructive basis for work. Of course, the issue of productivity is central to this debate and the question of science is very important, but it is not central, that is, we do not refer to the dossier concerning science because the debate is not about science, it is about knowledge and creation of value. The appreciation of knowledge is a border theme between two worlds, a theme on which we have invested a lot, in which we are investing as a country and in which we will continue to invest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u103	This is a complex issue, in which it is difficult to discuss without sitting on one side. We have seen this today, in which, in some way or another, we have almost all placed ourselves on one side: either on the side of the academic world, on the side of science, or on the side of the economy. It is very difficult to consider, in a comprehensive way, all actors and actors involved in this process. It is, in fact, a complex issue. There is, in this Parliament — and I think this has become very clear today — who considers that these two worlds are completely separate and that only by continuing separate is that there will be a path to progress in the country. This was made clear by the fact that there are, for example, those who believe that teachers working in companies are free of charge to be provided to these companies. I think this is the thought of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. With this vision, there is no possibility of discussion or at least a result of discussion. In fact, there will always be a result of discussion, there will not be a constructive result and built together. Fortunately, the PSD is not alone in this Parliament to think so; the CDS and PS also think the same way. The PSD considers that these two worlds cohabit and are only strengthened in dialogue. However, there is a deep difference in what separates us from PS: for PS, to do little and to do with different names arrives; for PSD, it will never come to do much, it will never come to pursue what others good did and will never arrive very much show-off.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u104	For PSD what's good is bad and bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u105	We believe that this is an important debate and that all efforts are not enough — the efforts of the two worlds, the efforts of the academy, scientists and the real economy, and also the efforts of all those and all the political groups who believe that such dialogue is important. The uncertainty about the future is very great, and we therefore believe that, for many policies that are in progress, it is very important not to neglect everything that is different forms, alternatives and contributions to continue. Therefore, the PSD believes that this legislative process can be an opportunity for debate, of course with all trade union and social council forces, which cannot be out of the way by the conception we have. I'm done, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, telling me what a friend of mine said is a knowledge transfer technician. This friend of mine told me that the best definition he knew about the transfer of knowledge was that of a priest in Berlin who, when he knew that my friend was a knowledge transfer technician, said: « So he is the one who promotes meetings between those who know and those who understand». I hope that with this topic and with this discussion we can contribute to dialogue and meetings between those who know and those who understand. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-12.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and there will be a number of items on the agenda. First, the projects of lein.o 614 / XIII ( 3 ) will be evaluated together. ( a ) — First amended Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August establishing a simplified cadastral information system and repealing Law No 152 / 2015 of 14 September ( PSD ) and 617 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August establishing a simplified cadastral information system and repealing Law No 152 / 2015 of 14 September ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolutions No 1062 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends greater support to the Government for forest fire defence investment ( CDS-PP ) and 1076 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures for the prevention and protection of forest fires ( BE ). Secondly, draft resolutions 471 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the framework of competences, modalities and funding of information offices and support for education for sexual health and education, extending them to higher education and promoting a regular evaluation of the implementation of Law No 60 / 2009 of 6 August ( PS ) and 1075 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Changes in the scope of information offices and student support and extension of their obligation to higher education ( BE ). Decree-Law No 66 / 2017 of 12 June establishing the Legal Regime for the Recognition of Forest Management Institutions ( BE) [ Parliamentary assessment No 39 / XIII ( 2. ( a) ). Then we will appreciate Decree-Law No 90 / 2017 of 28 July, which amends the legal system of social income for insertion ( PSD ) [ parliamentary assessments n. 43 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and 44 / XIII ( 2. ( a) ). Resolutions 1056 / XIII ( 3 ) will also be discussed. ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ), 1072 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — National minimum wage ( The Greens) and 1073 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by increasing the national minimum wage ( NAP ). Finally, there will be a regiment vote. I wish everyone a great afternoon. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 49 minutes.]]
