ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the results of yesterday's elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the following Act was drawn up for the election of four members to the ERA Regulatory Council — Regulatory Entity for Social Communication : « At the twenty-seven days of November of two thousand and seventeen, four members were elected to the Governing Council of the ERC — Regulatory Entity for Social Communication. The result was as follows: Voters — 225 Votes ‘yes’ — 160 White votes — 56 No votes — 9 in the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, declare themselves elected to the Governing Council of the ERC — Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, the following members: Francisco de Paula Melo de Azevedo e Silva João Pedro Nunes Lemos Figueiredo Maria de Fátima Gravata de Resende Lima Mário António da Mota Mesquita. Do not keep on seeking. ” For the election of a member to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the following point was drawn up: « At twenty-seven days in November of two thousand and seventeen days, a member was elected to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic. The result was as follows: « Voters — 225 Votes ‘yes’ — 153 White votes — 62 No votes — 10. In view of the result obtained, he declared himself elected to the Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic : — Abilio Manuel Pinto Rodrigues de Almeida Morgado ( PSD ) ». Finally, for the election of a member to the Internal Security Council, the latter refers to the following: « At the twenty-seven days of November of two thousand and seventeen, a member was elected to the Internal Security Council. The result was as follows: Voters — 225 Votes ‘yes’ — 131 White votes — 76 No votes — 18 under the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, it is declared not elected to the Internal Security Council by Mr Jorge Lacão Costa ( PS ) ». That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Jorge Lacão asked for the floor to speak to the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the outcome announced, I would like to ask Mr President to begin by thanking the leadership of my parliamentary group for the proposal of my name for the election of one of two representatives of the Assembly of the Republic for the Supreme Council of Internal Security. The other element in office is, as we know, Mr Marques Guedes of the PSD. I am pleased at this point to acknowledge the way in which the honourable Members have heard earlier. Members of the various parliamentary groups expressed their support for the candidature, even at a single moment of unanimity. As I said on that occasion, it is very important to be able to reconcile coherence in the defence of political causes with the spirit of public service required by the dignity of the institutions. As such, I now understand that the best way to serve the dignity of the parliamentary institution is not to insist on a candidacy for which the unwritten rule of fair play regarding political-party understanding has not been sufficiently implemented in the express votes. But it was a democratic vote and democratic votes must be respected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u5	I therefore wish not to bring any further difficulties to the House, because I do not want to be part of a problem but rather a solution for which I will try to compete in the future. I therefore announce the withdrawal of my candidacy. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.P., standing, and P.S.P. and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Jorge Lacão. His democratic position on this issue is clear. Let us now move on to the first item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in Bill No 101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets out the rules on compensation actions for infringement of competition law by transposing Directive 2014 / 104 / EU. For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill refers to the transposition of the European Union Directive on compensation actions for infringement of competition law, which has promoted a necessary approximation of the laws of the Member States in order to ensure the full compensation of those injured by restrictive practices of competition law, both consumers and companies. We are pleased to note that this legislative initiative gathers the consensus of other parliamentary groups, in particular the PSD, who presented the preliminary draft transposition prepared by the Competition Authority ( AdC) as draft law, which has already brought down to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works for discussion and which, therefore, we welcome, with many points that are in line with exactly what is presented here. Although with the same genesis of the preliminary draft transposition of the Competition Authority, the Government's proposal differs from that to the extent that it deepens and reflects an additional deepening to the level of analysis, in conjunction with the Competition Authority and other ministries, particularly with the Ministry of Justice, which has led us to deepen some of the matters. this additional reflection resulted in changes of relevance to this preliminary draft, in particular the extension of the scope of this simplified scheme in terms of proof of infringements and access to evidence, also extending to other actions with requests based on infringement of competition rules, such as the declaration of contractual nullities in the relationship between companies and, in particular, between suppliers and customers. In addition, there was also the improvement of the drafting of various standards, which was done in order to avoid interpretative doubts that could exist, taking into account the national legal framework. There was also an amendment to this proposal concerning the amendment of the jurisdiction standard of the Court of Competition, Regulation and Supervision, in order to avoid the repetition of conflicts of competence which may lead to significant delays in the decision of proceedings. This legislative initiative is therefore very positive for competition and extension to complement the strong commitment of the Government to the defence of competition, which occurs not only at the legislative level but also at the level of strengthening the action of the Competition Authority. This reinforcement already results in further investigations, i.e. greater detection of infringements of competition. In fact, in the last year, the Competition Authority started 85 % of its investigations through its own detection, compared with 42 % in previous years. Moreover, this year, twice as many requests for complete clemency and more than eight times more processes were found with the conduct of searches in potentially infringing companies. Our commitment to competition is great and the changes in this project we are presenting today refer exactly to the expansion of combat and greater clarity in combating situations of infringement of competition law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u8	Mr Pedro Mota Soares was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u9	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, there is nothing along the lines of cohesion in the European project and the perception that the European Union in Brussels is concerned only with the interests of the great and the powerful and that remains very indifferent to the real interests of people, the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, which in Portugal and Europe are the backbone of the real economy. This is the feeling that, in fact, is at the base of many populisms that are emerging to the right, either to the left, in the case of Portugal, and also throughout Europe. This directive which we are transposing here today is precisely designed to provide protection for small and medium-sized enterprises, in the face of abuse, concerted practices, anticompetitive practices, cartelization which are often developed by large companies to crush the market and eliminate competition, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. With this initiative, the precursors, in addition to being penalized, will also have to compensate for the damage they cause. And it is precisely for this reason that it is incomprehensible that the Government, which should have transposed this Directive by the end of 2016, has allowed the deadline to pass, has indeed come to the tow of Parliament and a opposition party, and has only now delivered this proposal. It was wrong for the government when it delayed this transposition, and worse than that, it is wrong because, once again, we realize that, for the government, the real economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, the protection of the weakest is something that really does not concern him. And the examples are many and abound. Since June 2016, the date on which the Competition Authority ( AdC) delivered the preliminary draft, which you could and should have legislated, should have worked, should have submitted a proposal, but the government chose « sleep in form», chose not to do so and thus harm the economy. Worse, Minister : the Government, in the proposal presented here, makes an amendment to the preliminary draft of the Competition Authority on which I would like to ask you a very focused question. in this preliminary draft and in the Directive, it was envisaged that the Competition Authority would quantify, where requested by a court, the damage caused to small and medium-sized enterprises or consumers. This aspect of the diploma is absolutely essential because, if not, it makes the diploma impracticable. The truth is that you are making an amendment and allow the AdC to refuse to do so. Why, Minister? Why is it that, after transposing this matter late, it still goes wrong, harming the economy, harming the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, harming the interests of workers and consumers? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u10	To reply, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u11	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, we agree that this legislation is indeed important and therefore I think it deserves broad consensus from the various parliamentary groups. What we have done before the Competition Authority and what has been presented was to improve and clarify aspects which, legally, were less clear, extend the scope of the Directive and also strengthen the way in which, in the case of branches, foreign companies are held responsible for the damage to competition they do here. So, in that sense, I cannot agree with you. In fact, I believe that we extended the scope of the Directive and the work we did with the Ministry of Justice was a very interesting work to improve this legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u12	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: On this matter, the PSD presented Bill No. 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). And he presented it not only because the government has not fulfilled its obligation to transpose the Community directives in this case of 26 December 2016, but also precisely because we believe in this type of process, in this type of initiative. The draft law submitted by the PSD is thus transposed into the domestic legal order of Directive 2014 / 104 / EU, the European Parliament and the Council. The PSD bill has 25 articles, laying down rules concerning claims for compensation for infringement of competition law, and is applicable regardless of the infringement of competition law, which substantiates the claim for compensation, has already been declared by any competition authority or national court in any Member State or even by the Court of Justice of the European Union. in accordance with Article 3 ( 1 ). , « the undertaking or association of undertakings which commit an infringement of competition law shall be obliged to compensate in full for the damage caused by such infringement ». The initiative under consideration also introduces legislative amendments to the new competition law, approved by Law No. 19 / 2012 of 8 May, and to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, approved by Law No. 62 / 2013 of 26 August. The proposed transposition now submitted by the Government, or rather, finally presented by the Government, brings various risks. Then in Article 1 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). on the scope of the regime, the current draft will create major problems of interpretation and make this regime not applicable in many cases where it even has to apply, under the penalty of great injustice. in Article 11. the, it is necessary to amend the suspension of the proceeding by attempting to settle extrajudicially in order to avoid breach of the obligation to transpose the Directive. The Directive obliges Member States to ensure, in these cases, that 'the national courts in which compensation has been proposed may suspend proceedings for up to two years' while the national standard does not permit, but imposes suspension, and only for one year. Also in Article 14. the, it is necessary to correct the remission period, which has not been properly updated. in Article 18. the, the penalty must apply when the behaviour is prior to the judicial order. in the current writing, this norm will be dead letter and promotes escape to justice. Moreover, and to conclude: in articles 22. o is 27. that of the Competition Act, there have to be repealed transaction proposals to which it is possible to have access. The Directive states that the injured must have access to the trade proposals repealed at the end of the administrative procedure, but the European Commission and the Competition Authority (ADC) do not agree with this standard and they are both trying to find a way to make the letter dead. We have left these alerts, but also, as it could not be, the PSD's availability to correct all these situations and to present a proposal that is decisive and constructive, especially for our small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u14	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Economic Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: last October 19 we discussed, in plenary, draft law No 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), submitted by the PSD. in this debate, the PCP stated what goes on to quote: "Instead of solving problems, this diploma, if approved, would be a potent factor of more problems and greater confusion, from when it is pointed out to a kind of equivalence between the Competition Authority and the courts; when it comes to creating conditionalisms, limitations and exceptions in access by the courts to means of proof in the power of competition authorities; when it opens the door to situations where the same facts and practices may be the subject of decision in different instances, in the AdC and in the court, and result in different decisions, with a framework that becomes more complex, and not less; when it introduces several changes to the legal regime of competition and new rules on the relationship between the courts and the Competition Authority; when it also introduces several amendments to the Law of the Judicial System Organization, bulising with competences and functioning of the courts and their sections. While stating that the provisions of the diploma do not apply retroactively, this does not refer, after all, to the burden of proof and the conduct of the proceedings, including the proceedings under way. It is assumed openly, then in Article 1. the, that the application occurs regardless of the infringement has already been declared, i.e. with retroactivity as to the facts. Do not keep on seeking. ” The fundamental question of the extrajudicial mechanism of conflict resolution is also raised, in which infringements of competition can, after all, be bought if the economic power of the offender reaches such an extent, because this is what we talk about so many times when we talk about arbitration. It was the same recipe we had in the CETA and (...) in the TTIP and now, at European level, applies to this type of procedure and guidance. Here, too, we have the criterion of justice for those who can afford it — read ‘for economic groups and multinationals’ — putting the principle of equality of everyone before the law to the wicked. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is what we said about a bill that was, in fact, the previous version of the bill that is now submitted by the Government and the assessment we did at that time - it also applies to this new version now under discussion, for the simple reason that, in these essential matters, there are no changes in substance or structure between the two documents. A month ago, in fact, there were those who stressed that this preliminary draft — that of the first version, brought by the PSD — introduced, and I quote, '(...) a set of legal solutions which are not provided for in the Directive and which have a very strong impact on the balance of the national legal order. It continued to warn '(...) of inadequate solutions to our legal order and, above all, solutions which called into question the systematic consistency of our legal order in matters as important as the concept of civil liability, limitation periods, evidentiary strength of foreign sentences,...' — I repeat: probative force of foreign sentences — '...quantification of damages, proof and organization', etc. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. What are the major changes in substance that have been introduced in the text so that these alerts do not arise again? It is that, in the essential questions, the options are identical, as identical are the reasons for the concerns and criticisms that were then expressed, and not only by the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u16	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative intends to facilitate access to justice by the injured to obtain compensation for the damage suffered as a result of infringements of competition law, in order to amend procedural rules, does not criminalize new crimes. It is true that the Law already provides for a number of situations, such as practices that restrict competition and abuse of a dominant position, as well as rules on non-contractual liability, which are already the basis for the injured persons to seek compensation. But the reality is that the injured rarely claim or obtain such compensation. It is not enough, therefore, to have good laws, justice must be accessible and effective and law enforcement bodies should be diligent and exempt and without discrimination on the basis of the economic power of the visas. Justice needs to have the means to be able to act, but what we have seen in recent years is that the means have been channelled to the private sector, particularly for finance, increasing its power, means that are needed in the action of the State, particularly in justice. The deregulation of markets and the opening up of borders have led to concentration, so we are dealing with increasingly powerful economic agents. This poses very important challenges to the performance of justice, democracy itself and the rule of law and the perspective of private justice - read 'arbitrage' — we can only be more concerned. This myth of the free market leading to freedom of choice is denied by the reality of concentration. The supply of actors on the market, which are less and less, is increasingly equal, more homogeneous, and consumers, instead of having more choices, have less, not only between different operators but also in different territories. The telecommunications sector is a good example of this because the offers of different operators are increasingly copies of each other, and competition manifests itself mainly in the craftsmanship to lubricate consumers and bind them to contracts and false advantages in promotions. The same is true in the distribution, with increasingly homogenous offers among different operators and with increasing power to crush both small suppliers and consumers. In conclusion, I want to say that human societies evolve not by competition, but first by cooperation. Competition or competition destroys social relations, societies, and also leads to the destruction of nature, so we need not to fine-tune competition rules, but to change the paradigm and overcome this logic of competition by a cooperation and greater democratic participation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u18	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for a 15-second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something very obvious about this government intervention in Parliament : the government, what it did, did late; the government, what it did, did wrong; and the government, by the way, does not even know what it did. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, look at Article 9. this diploma, in which you have introduced an amendment allowing the Competition Authority to cease serving as an expert in court. From that moment on, the whole regime is no longer making sense, it is no longer practical. That is why, Mr Minister, he agreed that, when he came to the plenary, he would know the dossiers well, he would know the mistakes he made, because he certainly knew that such a measure would be that of the additional measure that you put in Article 9. the, will make the whole regime impracticable, and that is what we have to correct. You are late in transposing this directive, they are deprotecting the small Portuguese economy, once again they are concerned about the big ones, they are concerned about other issues, proof that there are many things in Portugal but there is not a Minister of Economy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u20	Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill, submitted by the Government, is subject to transposition into the national legal order of Directive 2014 / 104 / EU, designated by « Private Enforcement Directive », which lays down the rules governing compensation actions under national law and European law for infringements of competition law rules. The rules laid down in the Directive seek to facilitate claims for compensation resulting from acts and practices that violate competition in national courts, especially cartel-based practices and practices that configure abuse of a dominant position as provided for in Articles 101. o and 102. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. the application of these articles in national legal orders results in rights and obligations for natural and legal persons which may be applied by the national courts of the Member States, in particular in cases of damage caused by breach of competition rules. On the other hand, through the articulation of public application and private application of competition law, efforts are being made to strengthen the efficiency of competition rules, ensuring a more transparent, efficient and balanced market. It is intended to articulate primary protection, of a penal nature, by public authorities, with secondary protection, of a compensatory nature, in order to build a system of more effective guarantee of the rights of the injured and to ensure the effectiveness of competition law. The Directive to be transposed seeks to overcome the numerous obstacles identified in the functioning of the current system of competition compensation actions, in particular with the clearer evidentiary value of competition authorities' decisions, the determination of a more effective compensation procedure and the difficulty in quantifying the damage suffered in the field of infringement of competition rules. This bill thus transposes into the national legal order the solutions found by the European legislator to respond to the difficulties identified, in line with the rules of civil law and national civil law. In addition to fulfilling the obligations to transpose the Directive, the proposal for a law chose to provide for, within the scope of the transposition margin granted to Member States, legal solutions that seek to ensure the effective implementation in Portugal of the objectives of defence of competition and harmony with the national legal system. The new competition law and the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary are therefore also being amended. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group shares the defence of the objectives justifying the transposition of this Directive, which are to increase the protection of consumers and SMEs, to increase the effectiveness of the application of competition rules and to ensure the effectiveness of legal solutions found, especially in the area of compensation. This bill, submitted by the Government, goes in this direction and therefore has the support of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, without prejudice to a joint work, within a specialized committee, to improve the legislative drafting and articulation of solutions found under existing national law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u22	End the discussion of Bill No 101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), we turn to the second item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in Bill No 102 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to decriminalise and provide for the unauthorized public execution of commercially edited phonograms and videograms. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Culture, Miguel Honrado, has the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a result of close collaboration not only with the entities representatives of copyright holders and related rights, but also with representatives of the hotel sector and restoration, there was an additional amendment to the Copyright and Related Rights Code until the summer, in addition to the one carried out by Decree-Law No 100 / 2017 of 23 August 2017. This amendment intended to provide for some of the conduct then submissible in Article 195. the — Crime of usurpation — ceased to constitute a criminally punishable crime, being processed in a counter-order national process, more specifically in cases of public, direct or indirect communication, phonograms and videograms commercially edited, paying attention to the nature, seriousness and censorship of their conduct. It follows that this amendment lacks prior legislative authorization in accordance with Article 165 ( 1 ( c ). the Constitution, which reserves to the Assembly of the Republic the legislative intervention, both for the creation of new criminal types and for the operation of its decriminalization, in accordance with the consolidated constitutional jurisprudence. Through this proposal for a law, it is intended to authorize the Government to make a legislative amendment that has long been claimed by the main organizations of the hotel sector, restoration and similar, represented by the Portuguese Confederation of Tourism. However, only now, under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture, it was possible to consensualize with the generality of the entities representing rights holders intended to decriminalize, by creating a speedy procedural mechanism which, we believe, will prevent the offender, by placing him quickly in a legal situation by obtaining the missing authorisation. On the other hand, and no less important, to mention that the fines product will be distributed between the State, the working entity and the IGAC ( General Inspection of Cultural Activities ), which will centralize the procedures, either the receipt of the cars or the notification to the rights management entities, or finally the concrete application of the fine. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u24	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill of legislative authorization transforms, as Mr. Secretary of State of Culture has said, which is today an illegal criminal of public dissemination, without the permission of the authors, of music and image — basically this is what we are talking about — into an illegal counter-order national. This question does not give rise to bitter words or misunderstanding, on the contrary, even if we understand the question, not only because of the current context in which we live — the technological advancement, the demands of the sectors — but also because of the legislative advances in this matter, although we recognize without parallel in neighbouring countries, such as Spain and France, where the type of crime is maintained for this type of behavior. What we do not understand and reject — and this is no longer the first time we do — is that once again the Government is asking the Assembly of the Republic for a blank check to legislate. I tell you why, Mr. Secretary of State? Because consultations were made to the interested parties — the Secretary of State told us that there were statements made by those interested in this matter — and the Assembly of the Republic, of course, had every right to know also so as to be able to give this legislative authorization in conscience and in accordance with what seems to be best to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u27	Thus, without opinions, without a single line on what people understand, we only have to trust the Government's word. And, Mr. Secretary of State, understand that it is not possible for us to do this without more. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, this is a path which we have even admitted possible, until in the authorized decree we see that there is an effort to try legalization to ensure that the voluntary payment of the fine will be possible only if there is the author's authorization and, therefore, we welcome this issue, but — and this is a great « but», Mr Secretary of State — this implies effective supervision by the IGAC. We know that today IGAC has no means to meet its needs. In addition to this allocation of powers, it is clear that IGAC will lack the means to act and, Mr. Secretary of State, it will also understand that it is not acceptable that you want to see such an initiative approved without the corresponding means being given. So what I ask you is whether, in fact, there will be sufficient means and whether you will provide the IGAC with these means necessary for this monitoring to be carried out. For this reason, we only see two ways: either make a correction to the Budget so that these means consist of the IGAC budget or, then, is already defeated at the start and knows that you are making a legislative amendment that will then not have legs to walk because, in fact, it will not be possible to monitor and will make much worse the state of things.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u28	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u29	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like Mr. Secretary of State to tell us how he intends to resolve the matter, because if in theory the thing can even result, in practice we know it will not work. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u30	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not register. Are we going to move on to a later item of the agenda? Or are there last-minute registrations? [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has just signed up for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: In fact, the subject which is now being brought into the debate is part of a more comprehensive movement which, in fact, has already begun longer and which comes here with an equally important dimension, which is that of the sanction plan, but which, quite strictly speaking, is no more than an adequacy and an improvement in the effectiveness of the sanction response to a problem with which the various operators already face on the ground. First of all, it is a good principle of criminal law, i.e. not identifying either a necessity or even a proportionality judgment justifying the maintenance of a criminal sanctions dimension, it is chosen by that regime which is more appropriate to the principle of censorship of the act, on the one hand, but also by the one who, precisely, proves to be more effective and more appropriate to serve the purpose of the end of the sanction that is on the table. However, it is a bit strange to hear Mrs Vania Dias da Silva say that the government is asking for a blank check when the check is almost full.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u32	It's not coming, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u33	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u34	The draft decree-law is particularly clear in what it identifies, the stage following the legislative procedure will allow us to collect contributions and collect hearings and, therefore, we do not finish the parliamentary work on this diploma today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u36	... that will continue in the next few days. In addition, she was able to ask questions not only about the authorization law but precisely about the draft decree which is presented here, which is very revealing that we are having a detailed debate on what is far from being a blank check. As far as this is concerned, let me say that we do not really deal with a new allocation of competence, i.e. we are not overloading a service, we are, first of all, changing a procedure on the type of intervention which IGAC might have to come up with in order to better suit the purposes and purposes underlying the scheme, and which, therefore, was the subject of consensus. This is precisely a measure which guarantees the effectiveness of sanctions, contrary to what we have had so far, and which, at the same time, will not be burdensome in a disproportionate way, making the model impossible. Having said this, it seems to us that it was a process that was involved and that therefore brought together consensus on both sides of the problem, both of the management entities representing the holders, or on the part of the users' representatives, and that we will certainly be able to improve in the specialty. because of the simplicity and clarity of what is presented to us, we cannot follow the reservations and, of course, we will try to ensure, in the specialty, the guarantee of approval of a regime that completes and fills some gaps identified so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u37	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This is a government that sails in sight — does not think, does not reflect, does not study, does not weigh; decides and soon sees itself. It was thus with the defreezing of teachers' careers, so it was with the transfer of INFARMED (National Medicine and Health Products Authority, IP ) to the Port and so it was with the energy reel of approval and lead of the rate proposed by the Left Block for renewable energies. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u39	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are now discussing is another example of how this government decides. Once again, we are confronted with a writhing legislative process, done on top of the knee, without any foundation and without any weighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u41	The Government intends a legislative authorization to describe the public exhibition of films and hearings without the payment of copyright and to pass the counter-ordination. But do so without complying with the rules of procedure and without enabling Parliament to provide the minimum elements for a serious assessment of the proposed legislative authorisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u43	at this moment, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not know the position of the entities that the Government has said it has heard because it has not joined the opinions, we do not know whether or not the amendment is peaceful in the sector, nor do we know the justification or the basis for decriminalizing a conduct that has been a crime since 1985.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u45	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, Parliament cannot pass blank checks on matters of its competence without being equipped with the minimum elements for serious assessment. We believe that the legal good in question continues to be protected by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and enshrined constitutionally in our Basic Law as law, freedom and guarantee. That is why we do not understand the reason why the government withdraws criminal protection from what is the main form of use of protected works. In addition, it would be important to know the consequences of this measure on the authors' incomes. We don't know. And we don't know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for a very simple reason: because none of this is important to the government, which clearly reveals the insensitivity of this left-wing front to the issues of culture and the financing of authors and artists. The left, the left that always walks with the culture in the sky-of-mouth, is the one that even yesterday approved a budget for the culture that is limited to a ashamed 0, 2 % of the total State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u46	All right! They just want the pole! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u47	The left, the left that always walks with the culture in the sky-of-mouth, is the one that, two years later, has not yet been able to obtain a joint position with the PS. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u48	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: If you will allow me, Mr President, after the speech of Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, I will try to make a reassuring statement saying that it is not with this bill that the country goes to the bottom. This matter is not as problematic as intervention has made it clear. From then on, because in the presentation of reasons it is stated that there is agreement between tourism-related entities and entities related to musical production and the authors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u50	Show me the looks!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u51	...and, in fact, if there was a challenge to this measure, surely we would already know. Indeed, the testimonies we have been able to obtain will, in fact, be in agreement with a broad consensus on this matter. In fact, this bill of legislative authorization is based on a constitutional imposition, which Mr. Secretary of State mentioned here. This is a matter of sanctions in accordance with Article 165. the Constitution on the relative reserve of this Assembly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u53	...and, therefore, in this specific point, in the decriminalisation that is intended, it must, in fact, be the House to authorize the Government to incorporate this matter into an authorized decree, which is why we have this debate. What the government is proposing is that a certain course of action cease to be an illegal criminal, cease to be considered a crime of usurpation in order to become subject to a counter-ordering regime, a violation of a different nature. I would say that this decriminalization is justified for two reasons: one, in principle, and the other, in practice. The reason for principle has to do with the very reason of criminal law. As you know, criminal law is a last resort right, it is a last resort, and therefore criminal law should only intervene and conduct should only be criminalized — since it is the most serious form of sanctioning a social criminal offence — when it is found that there is no other solution but to intervene the right through criminalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u55	Therefore, it must be a course of action on which there is a judgment of ethically serious enough to be considered criminally illegal. But clearly it does not seem to be the case. This is the reason for principle. The practical reason relates to the fact that criminalization is sometimes not the most appropriate way to prevent or punish conduct and that it is preferable for a good counter-ordering regime, which is able to operate, a criminalization regime, which ends up desecrating criminal law and becomes more ineffective. Therefore, either for reasons of principle or for reasons of reasonableness, we understand that it makes every sense that the passage of music in a public place without authorization continues to be an infringement, not of a criminal nature, but of a counter-ordinary nature and therefore we express our agreement with this bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u56	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u57	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Deputies and Mr. Members: in fact, it does not cease to be a little surprising this concern of the PSD regarding the lives of artists. In any case, I would like to greet Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, just because she finally recognizes that artists have rights and need to see their rights guarded. By making a more generic intervention to situate and contextualize this issue, I would say that in recent years the initiatives that seek to respond to the increasing complexity of the issue of copyright and related rights have multiplied. This complexity is largely due to the vertiginous evolution of information and communication technologies, particularly in the digital field, setting up societies with permanent change, as well as the uninterrupted need to acquire new literature. This picture is stimulating, certainly, but also contradictory. The possibility of virtually unlimited access to education and culture cohabits with this other possibility of the misuse of the Internet and digital media, with harmful effects on the authors' personal and heritage rights. We therefore find it essential to weigh the balance between the different rights. It is in this context that the European Commission has produced directives, subsequently voted on and possibly adapted to national realities, and this application for legislative authorisation is included by the Government. This is an additional amendment to the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, with a view to decriminalizing and providing for the public execution of commercially edited frames and videograms as a counterorder. According to the Government's proposal, and in faith in this proposal, several entities have been heard and I quote them because, indeed, there are no entities: AUDIOGEST — Association for the Management and Distribution of Rights, GEDIPE — Association for the Collective Management of Copyright and Film and Audiovisual Producers, Visapress — Media Content Management, SPA — Portuguese Copyright Society, GDA — Artist Rights Management and CTP — Portuguese Tourism Confederation. These hearings certainly reinforce the credibility of the proposal. Therefore, the Left Block does not oppose this Government initiative. What was so far considered a crime is no longer a crime, leaving, too, the possibility of a restrictive penalty for individual freedom in these matters. It seems to us, therefore, that the referral to the field of counter-coordinations goes towards a greater balance in the regulation of different interests, which is what the Left Block wants to defend. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u58	by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a very telegraphic way, I want to leave only three brief notes. First of all, by stressing something that Mr António Filipe has already noted, is that, indeed, when we discuss the option for criminal protection, we must be absolutely certain that it is a protection that is justified in the face of circumstances, in view of censorship and, in this context, both parties — operators and decision-makers, in this case, the legislator — clearly do not recognize the censorability that justifies, even though it is a matter of fundamental rights, that is used in a framework of criminal law, still opting for a framework which is equally appropriate and which allows effective and even faster responses than what we have now. The second note, and reiterating what I have underlined, is that tomorrow there will be a meeting of 1. the Commission, in which it can be clarified any doubt as to the need for additional elements to be sent, so that it is clear whether there is any objection by the main actors in the matter. But, as Mr António Filipe said just now, if he did exist, and since it is not difficult to contact Parliament today and to bring about a position on the subject, these echoes would certainly have arrived. But there will certainly be enough framework in the Commission's work to find ways to deepen this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u60	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u61	Mr President, just to conclude, I would like to note that it is really necessary to have no more subjects to address, in a debate on copyright, the budget of culture, even more so with the absence of a smell that is characteristic of those who have never increased the budget of culture. Although it has increased for two consecutive years, the PSD still believes it has morals to pull the subject into a debate which has nothing to do with this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u62	You now have the floor to conclude this debate, Mr Secretary of State for Culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would just like to ratify what I said recently. In fact, this is the model indicated, given the nature of the matter and, therefore, what I can say is that it is not only the object of an extended consensus by the entities, which are identified, but also something that has long been expected by all these entities, because it is a model that is much more appropriate to nature, as I said, of the matter under consideration. With regard to IGAC, and responding to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, I would say that it is an inspection whose mission is to inspect and monitor and will therefore continue to do so in accordance with the mission and objectives of this new model. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u64	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of Bill No 102 / XIII ( 3 ) is concluded. ( a). Before we move on to the next point, concerning the discussion of various PS bills in financial matters, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1139 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 5 / 2015 ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1140 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include in the National Inventory of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage the fado, the alentejo song and the Mediterranean diet ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1141 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 127 / 2015 ( CDS-PP ), 1142/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up and implement an integrated plan for the reforestation of the National Forest of Leiria ( PAN ) and 1143 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to recover, preserve and safeguard the industrial heritage of the former Robinson Factory, in Portalegre ( PAN ). That's all, Mr. President. [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u66	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists of the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 624 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 349 / 98 of 11 November and Law No 153 / 2015 of 14 September 2015 in the context of property assessments ( PS ), 625 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the assessment of the appropriate nature of operations relating to financial instruments ( PS ), 626 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the codes of conduct of credit institutions ( PS ), 627 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation for independent investment consultants and financial intermediaries engaged in investment consulting ( PS ), 628 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In order to strengthen the regulation of credit granting by credit institutions to qualified equity holders ( PS ), 629 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation on contractual and periodic reporting obligations to be provided to investors in financial instruments ( PS ), 630 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the obligations of credit institutions in the marketing of deposits and credit products ( PS ), 631 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation on private securities offers ( PS ), 632 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the internal organisation of financial intermediaries ( PS ), 633 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Visa to strengthen the supervisory powers of Banco de Portugal ( PS ) and 634 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of remuneration for employees of financial intermediaries and credit institutions ( PS ). To introduce draft laws, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group today presents a set of diplomas arising from the conclusions and recommendations of the parliamentary committees of inquiry to the banking sector carried out in Parliament. It is because we take the ICCs ( parliamentary committees of inquiry) seriously and the work done there that we believe these must have consequences, in particular legislative consequences. That is what we have done, and that is what we are presenting today. The nationalization of BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ) and the resolutions of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ) entailed a very significant financial effort of the community, which greatly shaken the confidence of Portuguese in the financial sector and in the institutions entrusted with regular supervision. Without prejudice to other initiatives already taken or under way, in particular with regard to the resuscitization of so-called 'damaged', the revision of the model and the regulatory and supervisory architecture or the transposition of directives, still known as 'DMIF II', the Portuguese would not realize that, under a new circumstance, Parliament had done nothing within its competence after identifying and concluding by the occurrence of bad commercial practices, insufficient or non-existent management of conflicts of interest and limited or ineffective action of regulatory and supervisory bodies. After a detailed analysis not only of the conclusions and recommendations of the different ICCs, but also of the European and national legislative process, including the current one, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group held a long series of hearings, including regulators, supervisors, representatives of the sector, as well as consumer/bank customer associations, in addition to the newly formed associations of injuries that, after the known events, have emerged in recent years. This work, of course, has not ignored the limits imposed by European legislation. The national financial system does not exist on an island nor can it be subject to a legislative framework which differs significantly from that which exists in other European countries and which emanates from European legislation. It cannot for legal reasons and must not for economic reasons. Our proposals take into account this context and the limitations it imposes on any legislator. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has launched this initiative taking three distinct phases. First of all, the conclusions and recommendations of five ICCs, which were the subject of the banking sector, were sent to an extended set of stakeholders, cumulatively having been sent a framework document of the initiative and an invitation for hearing. in this context, the following entities were heard: Association of Defence of Banking Clients, Association of Banking Injury and Santander Totta, Association of the Portuguese Immigrant Movement, Association of Licensing and Undeserved Trade Paper, Association of Portuguese Banks ( APB ), Association of Portuguese Consumers and Users of Financial Products and Services, Association of Portuguese Consumers for the Defence of Consumers, Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds, Banco de Portugal, Commission of the Securities Market, Union of the South Banks and Islands, Independent Trade Union of the Bank and National Trade Union of Banks and Banking Techniques. Secondly, in this extended set of hearings, the different legislative and resolution alternatives were discussed, contributing to the formation of proposals within the framework of the political objectives set out by the Parliamentary Group. Thirdly, this set of proposals was discussed at a parliamentary conference held on 27 June at the Auditorium Antonio Almeida Santos, in the Assembly of the Republic. What we are discussing today is the final outcome of this process. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group defined as nuclear objectives to introduce legislation for the protection of clients and workers of the banking and financial system, in particular in the face of aggressive commercial practices, which involve the adoption of risks not perceived by unskilled market agents and to ensure clear and clear separation in the relationship with clients, between the depositary financial entity of debt and capital securities and the groups that hold or are held by that banking entity. in this context, and in particular in the cases of ICPs to the resolution of BES and BANIF, aggressive sales practices were identified, with insufficient application of the instruments of adequacy of the financial product to the profile of investors, without taking into account age, the investment history of each individual and how often with alleged mis-selling practices. It should also be emphasized to the banker — how often he also subscribes to financial products — that puts these instruments under circumstances that cannot always be considered appropriate, pressured by performance objectives that do not contribute to a business process that allows the necessary perception of risk by customers. On the other hand, individually, the workers took financial products in many circumstances, resorting to loans, accentuated conflicts of interest and, in an unhealthy relationship, were simultaneously debtors, shareholders, bondholders and marketing entities. in some cases reported, they were undoubtedly the ones who lost most: they lost their jobs, lost their investments, lost their debts and, in some cases, dragged family members with them. The management of conflicts of interest was particularly noteworthy in all ICCs. Both in the case of GES / BES, and also in the context of the Rentipar / Banif relationship. This issue must be given special care. First, because the placing of own financial products, or interested parties, was one of the fundamental sources, but not the fundamental source, of the extended set of investors who lost their resources and, secondly, because the placing of debt securities on unskilled investors, on public and private tenders, deserves special care, in particular in the event that the existing relationship may limit the appropriate perception of risk and the adequacy of an investment. The experience gained throughout the ICC, the hearings carried out and the analysis of national and European legislation enable us to form a collection of proposals with the certainty that the set of issues that emerged does not resolve with a single proposal, with a silver bullet that solves all problems. There are different dimensions that compete for a global solution: to improve the marketing and risk perception of financial products; to strengthen the training of workers and to delink their remuneration and assessment of the placement of concrete financial products; to ensure that they are not captured by aggressive marketing processes and that their sources of procedures and information are known to customers and supervisors and also to ensure that customer complaints are analyzed in a coordinated manner and that the supervisor has the information necessary to anticipate more practice and punish when necessary. With this set of proposals, we believe that we can contribute to ensuring that the Portuguese market, which has suffered so much in recent years, can regain the confidence and stability it needs in order to function as a savings picker and an efficient allocation of financial resources, as well as avoiding transaction costs that harm the competitiveness of the Portuguese industry in the Community framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u68	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has your cooperation for inclusion in this debate, which is entirely voluntary, as we know. For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD's position on the financial sector is, and has always been, a position of responsibility that favours financial stability to ensure that the financing of the economy is carried out without surprises and that customer deposits are protected. The protection of clients of unfair and inadequate business practices and the security and independence of financial supervision to ensure the healthy separation between supervisors, supervisors and the State are our principles and, contrary to other parties operating in Groucho Marx mode, these principles do not change with others. We are not like the PS, who votes against everything that is from the PSD only because it is from the PSD. This is the sectarian path of the PS, which, along with its lack of reformist vision, makes it impossible to sustain a sustained improvement in the wealth of the country and families. It is because we have these guiding principles, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at these proposals for what they are worth and not for the logo in the document. Considering the individual proposals, we do not see ourselves in some, but we believe that improvements can be made in others. For example, the former Government has amended the rules of action of real estate evaluators to ensure that the evaluation made for any financial institution must be accepted throughout the financial system. Therefore, the portability of the assessment, by private customers or companies, can be seen as the consequence of that measure. however, the codes of conduct are voluntary and legislative intervention on this matter does not seem to be recommended. Overall, our position with regard to the stability of the financial sector and the protection of depositors is always to dialogue to achieve the best results. Our perplexity in this debate, more than content, is the way the PS chose to come to play. What is surprising about these proposals is that they are largely a set of vague ideas, vaguely inspired by the Financial Markets and Intermediates Directive, which comes into force in January 2018, without understanding why they were chosen and were not preferred to each other. The debate on the legislation for the financial sector, particularly as regards the protection of customers and depositors, is too important to be done in this wayad hoc, without structure, as if it were branches and branches of a tree which has no trunk. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this question of how is not only important, particularly when we are dealing with the financial sector. The legislative and regulatory changes in the sector have increased significantly in recent years and these changes require predictability for banks and other financial intermediaries to adapt, without causing any oversale to customers and depositors or unnecessary costs. The former Government made timely the partial transposition of the market directive and financial intermediaries, ensuring the safety of customers and depositors and allowing for a peaceful adaptation of the sector. in the last two years, the work of the government was simple: to continue the thorough work of transposition and to ensure the necessary coordination with regulators in order to avoid disruptions. The public consultation on this topic was conducted almost a year ago, the directive enters into force in 2018. Why aren't we discussing it now? This is just another sign of the reformist incapacity of the PS, which moves here and there without background vision, without structural intervention capacity, even when it says that it works a lot on the subject. And now it is probably because of the government's attitude in this area, which is already late, with loose ideas that can do more harm than well to the worthy objective of protection of customers and depositors. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we ensure consistency between the loose measures we are debating today and what will be the final transposition of the directive? The debate on financial supervision has to be done seriously and consistently and is not what is happening here today. What we should be debating today is because it is the government that is still late in this transposition, which is the model of financial supervision that the government really wants to implement, where, for what we know so far, it does not seem to be interested in ensuring fundamental independence between supervisors and the State. We can't afford it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS tries to rewrite the story of what happened in the financial system and accuses police to banish thieves. We also wanted to discuss the impact of regulatory changes in recent years and how to ensure the balance between regulation and cost for customers. We cannot be legislating as in 2007 when there was a regulatory shortage. The former Government did a remarkable stabilisation work, in particular the financial sector and regulation, which was another contribution to taking Portugal out of the troika assistance programme. How, in the future, can we ensure a balanced conjugation between stability, protection and efficiency? Instead, we are discussing loose ideas. I do not think it is a serious way to deal with the important challenges facing the financial sector that still awaits us. Unfortunately, it seems to well reflect the lack of structured vision for the future of the country of this government, this majority and this PS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u70	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am calling again for new inscriptions and now I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have nothing to oppose in general the proposals put forward by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on Banking Supervision and Regulation. Some introduce interesting and important changes, in particular in the requirements for the sale of financial products and in the adequacy of the financial product to the buyer’s profile or, for example, in strengthening the powers of Banco de Portugal as regards companies managing social equity, holders of qualified shares in banks. There are other proposals that meet proposals that the Left Block has already made and that are currently in a working group, along with proposals from the Portuguese Communist Party and the CDS. We understand, but this can be discussed in the specialty, that the proposals which the Left Block has already made go further and are more effective in controlling the sale of financial products, in particular by requiring that unsecured products can only be sold in specialized counters or through electronic counters or, then, that all securities emissions for unqualified investors are always considered public tenders and therefore a number of criteria that do not have in the CMM. These are examples of proposals that the Block has put forward and that go further than those presented by the PS. There are also measures in this package that are a little like the Improving—they don't do well, they don't hurt, rather. Certainly they will not harm the legislative framework we have, but they are also not the panacea for solving the problems of the banking system. The great limitation that we find in a large part of these measures concerns the fact that they have too much weight in self-fiscalation and self-regulation of banks, and we know well, because we are witnessing the financial crises of BPN, BES, BPP, that there is no code of conduct and there is neither a committee of verification of good practices, technically and pompously called compliance committees, which prevent banks from acting in accordance with their own interests, when they are interested at a given time. This was the case at BES, so it was at BPP, so it was at BPN and there is no code of conduct that prevents banks from acting in accordance with the interests of their shareholders and bankers. It is also true that it is not the external auditors who do, because all banks involved in scandals had external auditors, audited accounts and certified accounts. The truth is that no one ever knows anything, no one has ever seen anything, no one has found anything and the accounts are always perfectly up to the moment they explode in someone's hands. Therefore, there is a conflict of interest in the fact that the auditors themselves are chosen and paid for by those who are supposed to audit that it is not resolved and, with these proposals, it does not appear to be resolved, which leads us, bearing in mind that the first level of protection, self-regulation, does not work and the second level of protection, which are the external auditors also not, to the importance of supervision and banking regulation. It must be said here, with all fidelity and sincerity, that the Banco de Portugal has not been able to fulfil its duties, has not fulfilled so that we consider it satisfactory. And why? For three reasons: there is a part of this responsibility that is directly attributable to the Governor of Banco de Portugal, who has made very serious mistakes in the past, has not taken the mistakes he has made and has always had an attitude of arrogance, height and unwillingness to collaborate with the committees of inquiry and with the Assembly of the Republic. There is another failure in Banco de Portugal regarding its organizational culture. Perhaps because of historical or non-historical issues - we may have different opinions on this - the Banco de Portugal considers itself a banker's colleague and not a banker's "supervisor" and therefore does not have the discipline or intrusion necessary to supervise. This is a cultural issue that we have been checking in the various cases of bank failures. But there is another problem concerning a supervisory model: it is too concentrated in the Banco de Portugal, with regard to banking practices, and it is too compartmentalized, because the CMVM, which regulates and supervises financial markets, has no contact with the Banco de Portugal and today it is very difficult to supervise the financial market finding that banking activity of financial activity can be separated from the markets. This is not possible to separate, because they are transversal activities and, when something goes wrong, it runs cross-sectionally wrong. Therefore, the supervisory model itself should be changed, changing competences within financial supervision, which is not yet done in these projects and is another discussion we will have to have. We know that in times of crisis and fraud the bad practices were certainly in sight. There were bad practices, there were crimes, there were frauds, but the problem of financial instability goes far beyond the bad behavior of bankers. It is not just here that we have bankers with good character or bad character, bankers who commit or do not commit crimes, which is certainly important, but it is the very functioning of the financial system that causes their instability. We all know that the financial system tends to have excessive leverage in periods of economic recovery and expansion. You owe yourself too much. We all know that the financial system has a tendency to finance excessively speculative sectors at times of economic recovery and we all know that it has a tendency to have a profit orientation based on the interests of its shareholders and not on the benefits of the economy. That is why we defend, and we have defended, that the bank cannot be private property and must be public property, because only this allows us to align the interests of the economy and the country with the interests of whoever runs the banks. Do we think this is a necessary and sufficient condition? No, it's not enough. The public bank is not enough, but it is an integral part of having a financial system that is a public good. Whenever something goes wrong, the state has to intervene, and this does not happen in any other sector of the economy. If a private company goes bankrupt, the state does not appear to save it. The state appears to save a bank because it has the power to generate economic crises, to cause unemployment, to provoke instability and financial stability is a public good. That is why the bank should be public, although this is not enough for its stability. But there are two other threats to financial stability — and I would like to end by leaving this challenge — which they deserve to be discussed. The first threat is the aberration of banking union. It is a legislative and political aberration and it would already be an aberration if there were a mutual resolution fund with the sharing of bank resolution costs between the different countries of monetary union. But knowing that Germany will never agree to participate in a fund that shares the costs of intervention in banks, Portugal has placed itself in the situation in which Frankfurt decides what is done to banks when they go to bankruptcy and are the Portuguese taxpayers paying the decisions of Frankfurt. When we join these rules with the European Commission on non-State aid to public undertakings or private undertakings in need of public aid, what we have is an explosive mix, in which the problem is no longer just the possibility of a bank going to bankruptcy or having liquidity problems, the problem is that the State cannot intervene in that bank without this implying a mechanism that enters into a process that may lead to a resolution or, ultimately, to the liquidation of that bank. And this resolution and settlement are not in the hands of Portuguese authorities, they are in the hands of non-Portuguese authorities, they are European technocrats and bureaucrats who know little about Portuguese reality. The system that exists today, which is legal in itself, is an attack and is a problem for financial and banking stability. The second threat to banking stability, which apparently does not have much interest in discussing, has to do with the role of the European Central Bank and monetary policy, because we do not have budgetary policies that can be sufficiently expansionist and do not have the will of the European Central Bank or the possibility to intervene directly in the primary sovereign debt markets, which is being done to stabilize sovereign debt markets and to combat inflation is the injection of billions of euros in the financial markets. And billions of euros in financial markets, at European and global level, in periods of low interest rates results in bubbles that appear in bond markets, stock markets or in other types of real estate markets, such as the real estate market. Today, we have huge amounts of money that are serving to feed bubbles without any of this being subject to discussion or major supervision. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying that we have a lot to discuss about bank stability, but there is one thing that these projects do not solve and there is still no political courage to resolve: the system itself, the property itself and the nature of the property of the banking system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u72	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In March of this year, the CDS sparked a debate and presented in Parliament a set of measures on the necessary changes in banking supervision. Several other parties presented proposals that are currently pending in a working group and the PS today also presents their ideas, but it was necessary to wait more than half a year for it to be able to present them. It was half a year since Portugal lost hope that some basic errors in legislation in this area would be corrected. It was half a year since, for example, a CDS initiative aimed at limiting the granting of credit to qualified equity holders was expected, in the field of specialty, for the PS to present a virtually equal initiative today. It was half a year for the PS to come to the strange conclusion that, after all, a supervisor is needed, a proposal that does not present today. Instead, it presents a set of measures which, with some exceptions, as it is usually said in my land, "do not warm up nor cool down". It's all about the same. Nothing changes especially or is essential and no one bothers much with the changes made.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u75	That is why it is essential to clarify: is it really just that the PS will present in terms of banking supervision, financial supervision and financial regulation? Is there gonna be anything else or is there gonna be nothing else? How long will we wait until we close this chapter or discuss this legislation and then there will be changes? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issues related to banks and banking supervision have jumped to Portuguese priorities as we have been watching successive interventions and problems in different Portuguese banks. It began with the nationalization of BPN, followed by the collapse of BPP and the problems in the BCP, then with the resolution of BES and more recently with the sale of BANIF to Santander and the recapitalization of the General Deposit Box. Moreover, the case of BANIF is paradigmatic of the action of a government, the current government, which in theory would make Europe a big voice, while in practice could not have been more docile in relation to the Brussels dictatorships. This only explains that the government has found it normal to pay Santander to stay with Banif. The same Santander, moreover, with whom the Government later reached an agreement on the judicial dispute of toxic swaps, abdicating to fight for failure to execute the sentence in Portugal — this agreement in which Santander, imagines, lent money to the Portuguese State for this payment to Santander itself the toxic ditosswap. Moreover, at this point in which we discussed banking supervision, it is important to look at what is happening in Europe and it is strange that this government, which was going to make a big voice to Europe, did not find it strange that, when dealing with problems with the Italian bank, the rules were very different from those applied and demanded to Portugal. in Europe, the rules must be the same for all, they cannot change depending on the country that has problems. in this case, they have actually changed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS has always had a critical position with regard to supervision. We know that we can and want to work to improve the legislation, but we do not forget that one of the major problems we have is that the legislation that already exists is not met and we also know that a government that demultiplies itself in statements and counter-affirmations on the bank every week and every month, sometimes saying that a bad bank is needed, sometimes saying that everything is already settled, is a government that does much more to destabilize the financial system than to improve its supervision. In March, the CDS presented concrete proposals with various objectives. First: to reaffirm the idea he has been defending since 2009 for the appointment of supervisors — the Government proposes, the Assembly listens and the President of the Republic appoints. Second : make it clear that supervision should affect the effective functioning of the banking management structures and not only their formal existence. That is, it is not enough to have organs that work very well in a PowerPoint to see but that then, in practice, work completely different or not at all. Nor does it make sense that supervision is summed up in what can be described as « epistollary supervision», with many letters and offices exchanged from one side to the other and in which everyone tries to be irresponsible if something goes wrong but nothing is done when it is still going to be in time to avoid the disaster. Simplifying, it is not enough to supervise the rules, it is necessary to supervise their compliance; we do not have enough laws, it is necessary that supervisors materially comply with them. Third: reduce the legal limit for granting direct or indirect financing to qualified shareholders, exactly as the PS now proposes. Fourth : Taking into account the consequences of resolutions adopted in Parliament in 2015, following the BES Committee of Inquiry, proposing a segregation of spaces and persons in the marketing of deposits and financial instruments in banks, as well as the prohibition of variable remuneration related to aggressive marketing practices. The PS also has several proposals related to these issues and the CDS will have all the opening to vote in favour of some of them. Fifth : To ensure that the auditors' supervisor, CMM (the Securities Market Committee), is really active in monitoring incompatibilities, impediments and limitations of mandates in this area and its relationship with the consultant. The PS, by the way, is satisfied with the current state of things in the audit and you think everything is going well, but the CDS disagrees. Sixth: creating a culture of demand and transversal transparency to supervisors and supervisors and Banco de Portugal must be the first to set an example. We therefore proposed that the positions of leaders in Banco de Portugal, i.e. department directors, should be selected in a transparent manner and through a competitive process. If we want better supervision, the supervisor has to choose the best ones. The PS says little or nothing about it, certainly because it is more concerned with the affinity it has with the leaders of Banco de Portugal than with its technical competence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u76	That's all I needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u77	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the moment when we can actually change something in supervision, without the illusion that legislative changes all solve and all come together, but knowing that there is no room for more errors is precisely that of supervision. The CDS is open to proposals from all parties and, finally, half a year later, we can start to discuss the matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u78	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The private management of the financial system is so good, so good that we have been discussing for years to solve the problems it has created. These are the virtues of the privatization of the bank, which ended in 1992: accumulation of wealth, the formation of new monopolies, the diversion of colossal amounts from national wealth to foreign and offshore wealth, credit inequalities of more than EUR 50 billion and a public expenditure of more than EUR 25 billion — all this to cover the holes that bankers left in the financial system. It is actually 30 billion if we include the General Deposit Box, which has actually been managed as a private bank in recent decades. The problem of the private bank is that it is constantly being assaulted by its own large shareholders and the money that they steal and that there is missing is what the depositors lack, to which the State is called to cover with public resources, in an unprecedented public capital diversion operation to the private. This is an obscene operation which reinforces the need to reformulate the functioning of the financial system, to affirm the need for its public control and to denounce the predatory and corrupt nature of the capitalist system and of the states that make capitalism the law, as is the case with those who accept the rules of the European Union. Not rarely, they ask the PCP to justify the reasons why it defends the public bank, and we explain with great pleasure, but no one has yet been able to explain to us what the benefit of the private bank is. What did the country win with the privatization of Soares and Cavaco bank, with PS, PSD and CDS? In taxes, the bank never paid what it should. Since its privatisation, the bank has never paid the effective IRC rate established in the law ; between 2000 and 2008, the bank paid about half of the taxes it was supposed to have paid, distributed much more profits than it could distribute ; and so it was still able to accumulate about EUR 1000 million in inequalities in the post-2009, at the height of the new wave of the capitalist crisis. in recent years, mainly since 2009, the bank has never paid the due taxes, either by manipulating the taxable mass, either by manipulating results, either by tax engineering, or by the collaboration of PS governments, PSD and CDS, which do not hesitate to make and redone the laws and the rules of the game to adapt them to the whims of the private bank. They had public services the same availability of governments that have the bank and never anyone could talk about sustainability of public school, sustainability of the National Health Service or sustainability of social security. Since 2009, EUR 30 billion has been spent. In 8 years, the State spent more than it would spend on 1500 years supporting the arts, more than it would spend on 12 years of higher education, enough to pay 150 years of free tips for all students, 5 years of the National Health Service. These are the virtues and advantages of the private bank: paying for the errors of management and for the crimes of the bankers, when they say we have no money for public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u81	The importance of the bank in the functioning of society and the economy is not compatible with its maintenance as a cut of economic groups and as a private business dedicated to satisfying the desire for profit of shareholders. The currency, credit, money and stability of the financial system are public goods that cannot be managed in the taste of the interests of the monopolies which, as history has shown, act like the fox in the henhouse. In fact, it's a good analogy to this one of the foxes in the henhouse. They let the foxes take care of the chicken, and these, as they would expect, fulfilling their nature, eat the chickens. And what do governments do? Instead of removing the foxes from the henhouse, they invent laws and spend millions of euros on resources to police the foxes. Increasingly tighter rules, external audit, compliance, internal audit, supervision of the Banco de Portugal, supervision of the CMVM, supervision of the Insurance Authority, all on behalf of protecting the chicken as if it were not more effective to remove foxes from there from time to time. All of this legislative effort, such as what has been done in Portugal in recent years and what the PS now proposes in the name of bank management and in the name of compliance with the rules. , all this so that, when the rules are not met, the State pays the luxury account of the bankers and the cleaning of the banks to then hand them over to another even greater capitalist. The bills that the PS presents today in the Assembly of the Republic are not a step backwards, do not degrade the current situation, but do not go as far as necessary. Except for the project that strengthens the powers of Banco de Portugal, attributing to it the ability to determine the closure of branches, all the rest represent little more than a new layer of varnish in the illusion that it is possible to effectively monitor the private bank. The CFP proposes the public control of the bank as an alternative. A control that can take various forms and phases, but cannot go through the maintenance of the current state of affairs, which sacrifices the well-being of an entire people to satisfy the millionaire profits of the bankers. The proposal of the CFP for the training of Banco de Portugal in order to carry out its own audits is absolutely fundamental in this regard. It is not acceptable, nor is it understandable that we are constantly producing rules and empowering the European Central Bank, of which the Bank of Portugal is already only an appendix through the Banking Union, when all the information is filtered by private companies that work precisely for the bank. We saw at BES, we saw at BANIF, we saw in the United States, we saw in all countries that behind each bankrupt bank is a private company that gives by the name of external auditor and is paid by the bank to hide and mask the problems. The CFP proposal awaits the outcome in the committee responsible, as well as other proposals, which will certainly join those of the PS. We are available to study each of these and contribute to its improvement, but it is crucial that the PS is also available to approve the CFP proposal. The costs of a team of auditors owned by Banco de Portugal will always be incomparably lower than the costs we have incurred with bankers' assaults to the bank. No solution to the bank that does not go through its public control, with a view to nationalising the banking business, will be effective enough to protect the Portuguese from the assaults that bankers make to the purses of the depositors and the country. Unfortunately, what we have been witnessing is precisely the opposite: a growing approximation of the bank in general to private sector practices. The General Deposit Box itself has for many years been a private bank and follows, at a time when these practices should be distanced, the practice of extortion of depositors, with fees for services not provided, commissions for mere existence of account, in a process of improper appropriation of the resources of its depositors and of evident cartelization, concerted between banking institutions and duly permitted by the PS, PSD and CDS governments that, more than close their eyes, end up legalizing these practices. what the country needs is a public banking service, a public banking system at the service of the economy and an economy at the service of people, work and production. of which the country does not need are bankers who speculate on the basis of the savings of the Portuguese and who pressure the Republic itself, because they end up unable to repay deposits or loans. what the country needs is a General Deposit Box that sets the reference around the public bank, managed for the people and the workers, not a public bank that ends up operating around the private bank reference, managed for the large economic groups and to be the refuge of the millionaire administrators who, while receiving millions, destroy jobs, cut wages, close counters, use and abuse the position of power before the workers and still charge millions in commissions extorting the Portuguese. The country needs a break in financial policy, a policy that takes the interest of the Portuguese above that of the bankers and a break in economic policy, which assumes the distribution of wealth and rights at work against those who only want to concentrate wealth at the expense of the end of these rights. In short: a patriotic and left-wing policy for the financial sector and for the country. These projects that the PS presents are unfortunately far from that. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u82	in the continuation of the debate, you have the floor for a second speech, Mr João Galamba, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS the aim of this initiative is not a fundamental change in the supervisory system. at this moment, there is a public discussion on this matter—if the PSD and the CDS want, participate in this public discussion, we will obviously not duplicate an initiative that is already underway—and the transposition of the Financial Markets Directive will be made by the Government. The objective of the Socialist Party was to analyse the legislative amendments that have already been produced and in contact with all the entities that participated in the committees of inquiry, find improvements and gaps and, from then on, make a set of surgical proposals that are aligned with the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Therefore, it is not serious to accuse the Socialist Party of not making a substantive intervention in supervision or throughout the system, because this was never our goal — and I said exactly that in the intervention I have made, but I also do not think it is serious to devalue the 11 proposals that we have tabled, especially when these 11 proposals go further than any proposal that the CDS or the PSD has made in recent times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u84	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Bring the PS to this Parliament a package of legislative initiatives related to the regulation and supervision of the financial system. It happens that on 1 January 2018 a new Financial Services Directive will enter into force, but on the Government's part nothing. The government only brings us here audacious, torn legislation, where we cannot find a guide wire for its application and for more are initiatives that do not bring any novelty nor solve any problem. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is clear that the financial system, in a modern and competitive economy, capable of creating wealth, must be absolutely robust and credible, but we must remind the House that the known problems of the financial system are a time and a model of supervision that no longer exists. Between 2011 and 2015 : the role of supervisors has been strengthened; intervention and bank resolution mechanisms have been created; information delivery duties have been increased; managers' suitability control has been strengthened; restrictions on remuneration practices have been created; rules have been laid down to protect depositors, calling on shareholders and creditors to assume their responsibilities before aid with public money; more than 20 billion have been cleared — see! (ii) in the banks with no recourse to taxpayers' money. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] This was the contribution of the PSD Government and the CDS, among other measures. Now, with the majority on the left, it's the taxpayers cleaning up and paying the bank accounts. The government in two years of mandate has already spent EUR 10 billion on supporting the bank, with taxpayers' money, and commitments are expected to exceed EUR 20 billion. Do you know how much this represents in GDP? 10 percent! Thus, and with the authority of whom you led the country in very difficult times, here we are to participate in this debate in a responsible, humble and democratic manner, as well as we will participate in any debate as long as it is at stake to defend the interests of taxpayers and depositors. But we do not forget that this Socialist Party, which brings this measure to us today, is the same thing that, by the hand of its President and parliamentary leader, attacked the independence of the Banco de Portugal and weakened its Governor. This is the same PS that recently starred at that sad episode of the cabinet veto by the Minister of Finance in the appointment of the Banco de Portugal administrators only because they were not boys of the Socialist Party. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u86	It was not the intervention of the President of the Republic to protect the independence of the Banco de Portugal and the history would certainly have been another. For it is: « whoever fucks with the PS, carry it! », a former socialist leader had already said. But this is also the same PS that, with the support of the parliamentary left, at all times, tries to rewrite the story, passing the image that everything that exists evil in the financial system is not your responsibility. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not be surprised! This is the same PS as António Costa who, as opposition leader, felt that the Coelho Government and Passes should have injected public money to save BES. This is the same PS of Armando Vara who, in the management of the General Deposit Box, granted loans to friends and business friends,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u87	Are you talking about Oliveira and Costa? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u88	...to acquire actions and so to take the BCP, where they later transferred to the administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u89	Don't you remember the others? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u90	This is also the same PS of nationalized BPN! We don't forget that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u91	You're on the list, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u92	This is the same PS of José Socrates who, as Prime Minister, sponsored funding to companies in the GES universe and which led to the destruction of companies that created added value for the country, such as PT. This is the same PS of the Government of Management in which, after two years of its mandate, what we have in relation to the financial system is not only, nor less than: the sale of BANIF at balance price, the donation of BES and the weakening of the General Deposit Box with irresponsible declarations. This is the same PS that, in the General Deposit Box, managed that the public bank had three administrations in less than one year and of which, from the General Deposit Box, we still do not know, even if we do not know its recapitalisation plan, we do not know how many workers could be released, we do not know how many counters will close and, from time to time, it is said that there are at least EUR 5000 million that the Portuguese will have to put there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u93	How about discussing what is under discussion? It's all set up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u94	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not allow your historic responsibility to be removed from the financial system. [[PS protests.]] We will not allow them to question independence, weaken institutions and thereby destroy the financial system. The national interest and the future of the Portuguese are binding on us all! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u95	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : First of all, I would like to remind Mr Carlos Silva that the millions who were injected into BANIF and BES were also millions of Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u97	And they were injected by the PSD! It's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u98	We live in a crisis that arose from the financial system as a result of the deregulation of its activity, privatization and the logic of maximum profit in the short term. It is therefore unmissable to review the rules to prevent these behaviors that led to the crisis from repeating themselves. But not all the financial system acted in the same way, not all contributed to the crisis, nor was it exposed to speculative activities and called into question its own subsistence. The sub-sector of the cooperative bank has gone beyond the crisis throughout Europe and it is no different from this that it is subject to democratic standards, that customers are at the same time members of the institutions and that they have the ability to participate in the choice of management, the definition of their credit strategy and policies. This is a deterrent factor in the adoption of risk behaviors. It is not understood, however, that those who have not contributed to the crisis are punished in the same way as those who have made the crisis, who are governed by this alternative model, who have in themselves mechanisms that discourage the risk, are now obliged to adopt the model which has been most exposed to the crisis and which is forced by the European institutions to become an anonymous society. All the banks that sank were anonymous societies—it is good not to forget that circumstance. Therefore, this path to conversion into anonymous societies is, in fact, a paradoxical situation. I would like to leave some relevant facts: the cooperative bank in Europe represents a third of the credit to SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), therefore, credit to the real economy ; in Portugal, the Agricultural Credit is the largest bank in terms of network, in terms of employment and the first in terms of financial soundness and so far has not produced any magnate, unlike the speculative bank, which created the crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u99	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, when I hear Mr Carlos Silva, who generally accuses the CFP of using a tape, I note that Mr. You did not talk about one of the proposals that is being discussed here. Mrs Inês Domingos has already spoken, and I will refer to her later. Well, let's talk about the proposals. The PS brings today a package of proposals, but I will talk about two amendments to the Legal Regime of the Financial System Institutions ( RGIFS). It should be noted that this diploma, the first version of which was 1992, had only 15 amendments in 15 years, until the outbreak of the subprime crisis in the United States of America in 2007. I recall that this was the development period of economic and monetary union and the adoption of the euro, which alone justifies several amendments. It appears that, after the financial crisis and in the period of only 10 years, more than 36 amendments have already been made, including corrections. Mrs Inês Domingos, do you know how many of these 36 amendments were made during the PSD/CDS government? You don't know, but I'm telling you, it was 22! Therefore, the honourable Member made an intervention in which she said that we must have a macro approach, we must see how we transpose the DMIF 2 Directive, etc. , in a holistic view. Indeed, Mrs Deputy, the holistic vision of the PSD for four years was 22 amendments only to the Legal Regime of the Institutions of the Financial System. We must invest in other areas, such as education for citizenship for young people in basic education or in ethical disciplines in higher education, because just changing the rules of regulation, which we now propose, are not enough, but they are necessary. And why are they needed? What the PS proposes are two very simple things. First, with the presentation of Bill No 626 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), we want the Banco de Portugal to set guidelines for codes of conduct that banks should have in particular in relation to their customers, so as to regulate, for example, internal mechanisms and procedures, within the scope of customer complaints. Mrs Mariana Mortágua says: "We do not believe in self-regulation". Neither do we. In fact, today—it is good for everyone to know, because, perhaps, they do not know— all the big national banks have codes of conduct. I have worked to read everyone's codes of conduct and, when I read them, on these specific topics that I am talking about, i.e. customer relations and what banks have to do in case of a complaint, I have found myself in two extreme situations. One of the major national banks has three lines in the code of conduct on this issue, which, for us, is clearly insufficient. It is not enough to say that customers have the right to complain, it is necessary to know how, what internal procedures are. Another national bank has an entire chapter dedicated to customer complaints. What we want is very simple: that there are guidelines from the Banco de Portugal ; that there are rules in the code of conduct that set minimum; and that there are penalties, in case of non-compliance. With regard to the other bill we have presented, we have made substantial progress—and was recognized at least by Mr Tiago — in strengthening the powers of the Banco de Portugal. The Socialist Party is often criticised — still today it was here, by Mr Carlos Silva — to want to weaken the Banco de Portugal. For what we are doing is giving the Banco de Portugal more power. In what? The PS proposes that the Banco de Portugal will have the power to close subsidiaries or branches of banks in countries other than the European Union, where the necessary conditions for supervision by the Banco de Portugal are not guaranteed. In other words, we want to follow the recommendations of the parliamentary committees of inquiry, and we want to follow the recommendations of the White Paper on the Regulation and Supervision of the Financial Sector, Banco de Portugal. I'm done, ladies. Members, saying the following: We are sadly aware of the experience of the BES case, and not only of the problems that have arisen by large banks being exposed to subsidiaries or branches outside the European Union in much more obscure and less transparent regulatory frameworks than our own. We cannot let the bank's bill fall again on the Portuguese in the future, and for that, all care is limited. That is why the Socialist Party is working for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u101	For a second intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS has been in government for two years and for more than half a year in Parliament initiatives of the CDS and several other parties on this issue have been pending. So I see no reason for irritation when the obvious question is asked, what is this: are these the projects that the PS has to present? Are these the only ones? Are they going to come up more? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I see no reason for irritation when the PS says that this is details and that more important things will come later.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u103	The model is in public discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u104	Mr President, if they are just details, the CDS has all the openness to these and other projects, but we also have all the legitimacy to ask you how much longer will Portugal have to wait until the PS finally presents its ideas for supervision, because, frankly, I think we have waited too long.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u105	They were presented about a month and a half ago and are in public discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u106	Now that the debate has shifted to other matters, I take the opportunity to ask whether the pervading and absurd idea that we talked about a few months ago, to put the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon to put money in Montepio, is, once and for all, away or if we still go, one day, to hear again about this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u107	In order to close this point of debate, Mr Fernando Anastácio of the PS has the floor as a member of the proposing party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The aim of these initiatives of the PS Parliamentary Group is to create legislation for the protection of clients of the banking and financial system, in particular in the face of aggressive commercial practices, and to ensure the protection of customers against unjustified and penalizing requirements. One of the proposals under review is that the evaluation carried out by an evaluator registered at the CMVM will recognize to the client the ownership of the property assessment report produced, following a service that has cost, as well as ensuring the portability of assessments between different financial institutions. It makes no sense for the customer to cost an assessment, often paying the bank double the actual cost of it and not being able to use it with any other financial institution. in this area, we also believe that significant steps should be taken and that it is up to the CMVM and the Insurance and Pension Supervisor to adopt the necessary regulations on the responsibility of financial system entities, on matters relating to the relationship with the real estate evaluators, on the valuation of buildings, on the evaluation reports of the evaluators and on the reporting of the same experts. Bill No. 624 / XIII ( 3. ( a )........................................................... Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the strengthening of the regulation relating to investment consultants and their financial intermediaries, as well as the regulation of remuneration of employees of financial intermediaries and credit institutions and their internal organisation, are objectives aimed at the projects of lein. 632, 634 and 627 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). The obligation of the register associated with the verification of suitability, qualification and experience of investment consultants, as well as the communication to the CMVM for public disclosure of the identification of its employees, will become required by the approval of Bill No 627 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, also the criteria for determining the remuneration of employees of financial intermediaries and credit institutions will become more restricted, as set out in Bill No 634 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). It will no longer be possible, as in the past and with disastrous results, a remuneration policy to take account of transactions in the purchase or subscription of financial instruments issued by the financial intermediary itself or by entities with which they are in relation to domain and group. One last step is a greater demand and the strengthening of internal regulation of financial intermediaries, a greater rigour in the business organisation with improving internal control and procedures, and the provision of credit to employees for operations where the intermediary has intervention, together with strengthening and improving internal governance mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these legislative initiatives, as well as the others currently under discussion, aim to: ensure clear and clear separation in the relationship with customers, between the financial institution placing debt and capital securities and the groups holding, or being held, by that banking entity; introduce legislation on the protection of clients and workers of the banking and financial system, in particular in the face of aggressive business practices involving the adoption of risks not perceived by unqualified market agents; ensure a clear separation between the supervisory, prudential and behavioural function, and the banking resolution function, in a broader approach where the interaction and scrutiny of European institutions are included. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that, with the adoption of this legislative package, Parliament will make a serious contribution to improving our financial sector, both in terms of its functioning and in terms of transparency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u109	Before we turn to agenda item four, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read out legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the drafts of lein. 669 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the composition of the National Council of Bombers, regulated by Decree-Law No 73 / 2013 of 31 May ( PAN ), 670 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, approved by Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( PAN ), 671 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the imposition of a competitive procedure for the award of decision-making positions of Civil Protection ( PAN ), 672 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the integration of municipal veterinary doctors as civil protection agents and creates an animal rescue and rescue team ( PAN), 673 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a commission for the elaboration of the internal tax status ( CDS-PP ) and 674 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen forest fire prevention and combat ( CDS-PP ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos 1144 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government changes in support for farmers affected by the 2017 fires ( CDS-PP ), 1145 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government redefinite the forms of participation of the Armed Forces in civil protection missions and strengthen the air means of combating fires ( CDS-PP ), 1146 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government redefinite the forms of participation of the Armed Forces in civil protection missions ( CDS-PP ), 1147 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the payment of extra time of service to forest slag teams ( CDS-PP ), 1148 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a mission unit for reconstruction ( CDS-PP ), 1149 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of mitigating and restoration measures for fire-strengthening soils ( CDS-PP ) and 1150 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Identification and minimization of the impacts of forest fires on natural resources such as water and soils ( The Greens ). Some legislative initiatives now mentioned are scheduled for discussion at tomorrow's plenary session. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u111	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the joint debate on petition No 267 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic to the Government in order to safeguard and preserve the industrial heritage of the Robinson Factory ( Luís Manuel Madeira Pargana et al.) and draft resolutions Nos 898/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard Robinson's cortical industrial heritage ( PSD ), 1123 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government save and value the cortical industrial heritage of the Robinson Factory in Portalegre ( The Greens), 1126 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of solutions to preserve and safeguard the industrial heritage of the Robinson Factory ( PS ), 1128 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, together with the Municipal Chamber of Portalegre and the Robinson Foundation, develop a programme for the recovery, preservation and preservation of cultural heritage, including archaeological and industrial espólio, of the Sociedade Corticeira Robinson Bros, SA ( CDS-PP ), 1129 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the safeguarding, enhancement and dynamisation of the former Robinson Factory in Portalegre, and its cortical industrial heritage ( PCP ), 1136 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to safeguard the heritage of the Robinson Factory in Portalegre ( BE ) and 1143 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to recover, preserve and safeguard the industrial heritage of the former Robinson Factory in Portalegre ( PAN ). Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to greet the first subscriber — Prof. Luís Pargana — and, in his own person, each of the more than 4000 subscribers to this petition, as well as the President of the Municipal Chamber of Portalegre and the Members. Seers present in the galleries. in this matter, the involvement of all is fundamental, because we are faced with a responsibility that is of the state and local administration. We are pleased that all the parties with parliamentary seats have followed the initiative presented by the PSD last June in order to recommend to the Government the involvement and awareness of the industrial heritage of the Robinson Factory, our « Rolla Factory ». I regret the absence of a reply from the Ministry of Culture, when questioned by the Committee on Culture, within the framework of this petition. Portugal is the world's largest producer of cork and the mountain top is the perfect ecosystem for both local and national economies. Robinson Factory is the greatest symbol of this reality. It was much more than a factory, it was one of the livelihoods of the Portuguese economy and society. The creation of wealth began in the assembly and consolidated in the Factory. The times are changing, but we must continue to value our resources all the more so that, in this particular case, the value remains intact and should be maximized. This is the challenge that all parties signal when presenting the draft resolutions under discussion. In 2012, an important step was taken in classifying the set constituted by the Church and the old Convent of St. Francis and the Robinson Factory in the category of public interest set ( CIP). It is necessary to act and be consistent. Therefore, we reiterate the urgency of safeguarding and valuing the Portuguese industrial and archaeological heritage through mechanisms that guarantee its urgent preservation, minimizing the imminent disappearance of a unique heritage of the region of Portalegre and Portugal. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u113	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for us, on behalf of the Greens, to greet the thousands of subscribers of this petition, especially those who are with us today and who bring us to discuss an issue as important as the need to safeguard the valuable industrial and archaeological heritage that constitutes the Robinson Factory in Portalegre. In fact, talking about Robinson is talking about something the Greens have been following very closely. in fact, and especially in the last two years, the Greens have not spared any effort to alert and appeal to the intervention of the entities responsible for our heritage and our collective identity, to safeguard the heritage that Robinson represents. So, and by the voice of The Greens, Robinson came to the President of the Republic, to the Ministry of Culture and finally to this House. Our voice now joins the more than 4000 subscribers of this petition and the other parties who have also presented legislative initiatives on the subject, which, on the one hand, attests to the importance of the matter and, on the other hand, to the widespread consensus on the need to safeguard this important heritage. But it is also a petition which brings to the Assembly of the Republic the hope of the Portuguese to see this heritage properly preserved and which is now expected to be an important lever for the development of the municipality and the region. Indeed, Robinson's value, as an industrial heritage, is absolutely undeniable, even because it is linked to an endogenous product, which is the cork, and the need for an intervention to save it is shared by all, which is visible with the presentation of legislative initiatives by all parties seated in this House. But it is an intervention that demands urgency, and so it must be seen, in the face of the state of degradation and the various threats that arose about the remaining heritage, from the untimely to the decisions of the courts. This is what The Greens want with their legislative initiative: urgent intervention by the Government in order to ensure the preservation of this industrial and archaeological heritage, with strong national symbolism and unique value for the municipality and the region, as well as the enhancement of its potential, as development factors for the Town Hall and District of Portalegre, involving the various local, regional and national entities, including scientific, educational, associative, business, and others that can contribute to the future of the so-called 'Rolla Factory'. Let us take a step today to save Robinson and strengthen the democratic and participatory nature of our democracy! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u115	For an intervention, Mr Luís Moreira Testa, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portalegre, city of Alto Alentejo, surrounded by saws, winds, cliffs, olive trees and sorrows and crowned by the Robinson Factory — so could the poet José Régio, charting the general line of the image of the city of Portalegre, such is the printed form as the Factory marks the image of the city. I want to greet Prof. Luís Pargana and all the subscribers of the petition that was brought to us. I would like to greet Mrs. President of the Municipal Chamber of Portalegre and all the authors who accompany this petition, also greeting, I am sure, all the Portuguese people who want to see this brand of the city of Portalegre preserved, as it should be. The Assembly of the Republic answered unanimously. Here we were able to see all the parties present draft resolutions—it is not rare but also unusual—in line with the will of your petition. That is why, being the Assembly of the German Republic of a unanimous will, we can conclude that the Government has all the instruments to promote the preservation of this factory unit, honoring the memory of the thousands of yards that have worked there, hundreds of which are still alive today. I want to tell you that we have the conditions to unanimously approve all the draft resolutions submitted and that the PS will compete for this approval, but, more than competing for that approval, we are, in fact, imbued that safeguarding that heritage is a reality, in favour of Portalegre, of our city, of our district, of our economy, because there you can generate wealth, work, culture, in the background, there you can live Portalegre in the coming years, remembering the past times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u117	You now have the floor, also for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the more than 4000 petitioners asking this House to intervene with the Government in order to safeguard and preserve the industrial heritage of the Robinson Factory in Portalegre. In fact, as has already been said, we have seen a very virtuous consensus between all the parties with parliamentary representation, which is very important, because petitions, for more reason and merit, are not voted on alone. from that it is so important that all banks have put forward initiatives, which I hope will be voted on and welcomed by the government, as has already been assumed by Mr Luís Testa. over the years, Portugal has often been ungrateful in preserving and safeguarding its heritage, particularly historical and cultural heritage and, in particular, industrial heritage. This only very recently began to deserve due attention and often too late because degradation reaches such levels that recovery is impossible. That's what the CDS and, I think, we all want to guard. And we want to prevent this from happening to such an important heritage, both regionally and nationally. We are talking about the cork industry, something that is so closely linked to our history and our national identity, and therefore it is not only this industrial heritage that we want to safeguard but also the whole espolio inherent to this practice that it was able to overcome the twentieth century, having been born in the 19th century, through the installation in Portalegre of this industry, which did not survive the 21st century and closed doors in 2009. Since there is currently no activity to be developed, we understand that action is urgently needed, and urgent action is required, so that there is no irreversibility, so that the approval of these initiatives is so important and, once again, an action by the Government, in conjunction with the Municipal Chamber of Portalegre — to develop a programme to recover, safeguard and preserve this cultural heritage, this industrial archaeological heritage of Corticeira Robinson, in Portalegre. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u119	You also have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Campos, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, a word of greeting to the petitioners and also appreciation for the work they have done. at a time when so many and so worrying questions arise in relation to heritage, the exercise of citizenship is certainly the most committed way to open the way to solving the problems that persist. The preservation of heritage is the responsibility of the State. the State is responsible for finding the best policies and thus equating combinatorial possibilities in order to find the necessary partners as well as the necessary funding. But the State cannot succumb to the temptation to drop what is not profitable and give in to what, being profitable, is often inaccessible to whom it should be the first to enjoy, that is, people. Therefore, your action, citizenship action is irreplaceable. The Robinson Factory, in the center of Portalegre, is a testimony of a time when the cork industry was decisive. Created in 1837, in it more than 2000 people worked. It occupies a 7 ha area. Its imposing towers are identity heritage, a memory of a daily life lived by hundreds of families over decades. During the 20th century, he experienced troubled moments. It was already closed this century in 2009, but not before several initiatives have occurred in order to safeguard its invaluable heritage value. Unfortunately, despite repeated warnings for the progressive degradation of the Factory and its acquis, it was never possible to respond adequately to the wishes and concerns of the inhabitants, in order to preserve what is irrefutable element of their identity. Therefore, the Left Block Parliamentary Group welcomes the consensus achieved in the meantime and recommends to the Government that, in collaboration with the Robinson Foundation, the Municipal House of Portalegre and the indispensable participation of the citizens of Portalegre, as a matter of urgency, in order to preserve for future memory the material and immaterial heritage of the Robinson Factory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u121	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to greet the more than 4300 petitioners, in the person of the first, Dr. Luís Pargana, here present, together with other elected members of the municipality of Portalegre. The Robinson Corticeira Factory still marks today the silhouette of the city of Portalegre and marked the history of the city and region in the 19th and 20th centuries. It was the social dynamics linked to the Factory that created the first cortician union, the first consumer cooperative, the first fireman's body, the first child day, the first philharmonic society, among so many other achievements that have lasted today. Robinson's workers were the first to celebrate the 1st. May in Portalegre, 1893. The closure of the factory left behind labor problems, problems that still need to be solved, in the fulfilment of workers' rights, but also left a wealth of material and immaterial heritage unique not only in the region but also in the country and in the world and therefore classified as a collective of public interest, in conjunction with the Church and Convent of San Francisco. That is why, despite the past, the path and action of the foundation created to manage the heritage, it has to be safeguarded and must be an asset to the development of the region. The CFP therefore recommends that the Government, under the Basic Law on Cultural Heritage, promote urgent intervention in order to ensure the safeguarding of the archaeological and industrial heritage at risk, as its obligation is. At the same time, the PCP recommends that, in conjunction with the authorities, scientific, educational, associative, trade union, business and others, promote knowledge, study, protection, valorization and dissemination of that valuable heritage and the adoption of requalification and revitalization measures of the classified set, by reconstitutionalizing its 7 ha. The heritage of the Robinson Factory is too important to get out of a development strategy of the North of the North of the country, but, in order to accomplish that purpose, it needs to be protected. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u123	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the petitioners for bringing the debate on this subject to the Assembly of the Republic. Preserving, safeguarding and valuing cultural heritage is actively contributing to combat collective amnesias and to help those who live to know how to be, to be, to live and feel in their time space and in the time space of others. It is this sense and duty of memory that makes Portuguese citizens want to see the old Robinson Factory as a mark of the space and time of who worked in it and who, through it, shared experiences. Its heritage value is undeniable, is an example of the industrial expansion of the nineteenth century in the south of the country, is associated with cortical production and contains valuable structures in the area of industrial archaeology. In 170 years of existence this Factory employed generations of portalegrenses and had a central role in the social development of this region. Despite the various attempts to promote its preservation, this complex is now damaged, abandoned and in danger of ruin, causing an image of desolation in the middle of the city's historical centre and endangering local memory. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to the State to protect our cultural heritage, so the government must ensure the realization of works of recovery and preservation of this building, working with the entities of the region to promote the study, safeguarding and disseminating of the industrial and material heritage that the Robinson Factory incorporates and represents.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u125	We have thus reached the end of this agenda item. On behalf of the Bureau, I want to associate myself with the congratulations of the various parliamentary groups addressed to the delegation of Portalegre that is present in the galleries, to whom I greet, with the special pleasure of being, myself, originating in the municipality of Portalegre. From what was said here, it will not surprise the positive result in relation to the resolutions presented. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, before announcing the agenda for tomorrow's meeting, Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will report on the presentation of a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u126	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and Bill No 106 / XIII was accepted ( 3 ). (a) — Approves measures to promote equal pay for women and men by equal or equal value of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-28.u127	We are thus at the end of today's work. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, 29th, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. and the agenda will be the one I will turn to. in the first point the discussion will generally take place of the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 661 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the military emergency unit ( PSD ) ; Bill No. 662 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a national programme to support victims of the 2017 fires that affected the Portuguese territory for the recovery of the housing park ( PSD ) ; Bill No 663 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to support companies and to resume economic activity in areas affected by forest fires ( PSD ) ; Bill No. 664 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the competitive procedure for the recruitment of the leading positions of the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations ( SIOPS ) ( PSD ) ; draft resolution No 1115 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of professional fire crews throughout the national territory and enhancement of volunteering ( PSD ) ; draft resolution No 1116 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a new national forestry policy ( PSD ) ; draft resolution No 1120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government amendments to support small farmers provided for in Ordinance No 347 -A / 2017 of 13 November ( PSD ) ; draft resolution No 1122 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat erosion of slopes due to fires ( PSD ) ; Bill No. 673 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the commission for the elaboration of the tax status of the interior ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 674 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen forest fire prevention and combat ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1105 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support indigenous breeds affected by fires ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1144/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government amendments to support farmers affected by the 2017 fires ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1145 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government redefinition of the forms of participation of the Armed Forces in civil protection missions and strengthen the air means of combating fires ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1146 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government redefinite the forms of participation of the Armed Forces in civil protection missions ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1147 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the payment of extra service time to forest slag teams ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1148 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a mission unit for reconstruction ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1149 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of mitigating and restoration measures for the soils wooded by fires ( CDS-PP ) ; Bill No 668 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extends the application of Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support the victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen prevention and combat forest fires to all municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 1131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the harmonization of the processes for supporting victims of forest fires in 2017, extending the simplified support process up to EUR 10 000 and ensuring support for loss of income ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 1132 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends support for the recovery of second dwellings in the municipalities affected by the 2017 forest fires ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 1134 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt an integrated strategy for the recovery of fire-affected areas ( BE ) ; draft resolution No 1135 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support livestock and specifically indigenous breeds affected by fires ( BE ) ; draft resolution No 1137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish, throughout the national territory, permanent intervention teams of professional firefighters whose service is provided 24 hours ( BE ) ; draft resolution No 1028 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Training and raising public awareness of how to act in case of danger from forest fire ( The Greens ) ; draft resolution No 1100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Self-protection programme in the event of forest fire ( The Greens ) ; draft resolution No 1101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Awareness and information campaigns, strategic and proximity, designed to prevent the ignition of forest fires resulting from negligent human actions ( The Greens); draft resolution No 1150 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Identification and minimization of the impacts of forest fires on natural resources such as water and soils ( The Greens ) ; Bill No 670 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, approved by Decree-Law No 241/2007 of 21 June 2007 ( PAN ) ; Bill No 671/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the imposition of a competitive procedure for the award of preponderant decision-making positions of Civil Protection ( PAN ) ; and draft resolution No 1108 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a specific programme to support the installation and implementation of forestry models using oaks, chestnuts and other leaves (NAP). in the second item on the agenda, resolution No 58 / XIII ( 3 ) will be considered. ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal of the reservation made by the Portuguese Republic to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 February 1946, with no time of discussion allocated. At the end of the debate, there will be regular votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 28 minutes.]]
