ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the Authority please open the galleries. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials and the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. We will start the plenary meetings of the 3rd. the legislative session of the XIII Legislation, beginning with a marking of the PSD and the CDS-PP, an up-to-date debate under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the « alleged theft in the palaol of Tancos ». To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Azevedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u2	Mr President, Minister for National Defence, Mr. State Secretary of State for National Defence and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The enhancement of an organic existence of the State calls for the visible realization of institutional structures which serve as the basis for it and which cross all intermediate bodies, giving citizens rights and duties that shape their intimate reciprocal relationship. The development of the idea of law in a democratic political society is, at the same time, a set of rights and duties of all its members, resulting in a balance between internal cohesion and the plurality of the autonomys that integrate it. This is the case with national defence, with its relationship of protection and defence of the state and in the reciprocal relationship it establishes with all citizens. If we want to, it is the extravagance of the mere defense of the collective identity, but also of the identity of the individual autonomy of the citizen himself, implying his ability to be, at the same time, the holder of rights and duties toward the State, especially within the framework of national defence, as in Article 276 of our Constitution. o. Thus, defending the homeland cannot be exhausted in a purely patriotic feeling. It first extends itself in the defence of the democratic regime based on the dignity of the human person, in the popular will, in the plural and free parliamentary representation and on the way to a just, supportive and supervisory society of political activity, which is to say in the defense of a constitutional patriotism based on irrevocable and irrevocable rights, freedoms and guarantees from which, unequivocally, parliamentary scrutiny is extracted as a primary expression of popular scrutiny. It is not by chance that the constitutionally established duties of defense of the homeland assume a structural dimension of our political system, being its compliance, including, guaranteed by the criminal procedure, and therefore, as Antonio Vitorino reminds us, cannot be in the hands of political power, of no political power, the decision on its defence. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: What has happened in Tancos is a serious matter which calls into question the security of the State, which compromises Portugal in the international framework and which deserves a thorough clarification of the military and political institutions that protect national defence and unquestionable clarification to the Portuguese Parliament as the holder of the political representation of the people. It was not by chance that, within the parliamentary framework, the clarification of this matter was unanimous in the parties which form the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence. It is this unanimity in the clarification that causes this matter to transcend the borders of political-party debate, transforming it into a matter of state and a responsibility of the State. And here the responsibility of the State is not only that of the realization of political responsibility; it is that of the guarantee that everything is being done, that everything has always been done to prevent situations like those that happened in Tanks. It is in this context that we can then consider three different dimensions: the responsibility that comes from an investigation by the judicial authorities that, in secret of justice, we will await the outcome of its course; the responsibility that emanates from the internal investigations of the Army which must be known to Parliament; and the responsibility of cooperation of the Ministry of National Defence with the other sovereignty bodies so that solutions can be found together in safeguarding the defence of the State. It has been this, in addition to the evident constitutional limitations, because Mr. President of the Republic, Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, has fought and none of the democratic institutions can fail to subscribe: the requirement of thorough investigation. Now, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two dimensions that have not been properly filled, not only because Mr Minister did not respond satisfactorily to the National Defence Commission on the success, but because he chose to reveal to the press a set of assumptions which gave rise to doubts rather than to clarify. We still do not understand whether there was indeed a theft in the tancos parole ; we still do not understand what happened within the 24 hours following the alleged theft and what reason the Secretary-General of the SIRP (Information System of the Portuguese Republic) has taken to say publicly that he only knew about the theft by the media as, moreover, with the Anti-Terrorism Coordination Unit, which gathered only 48 hours later, recognizing that he also took knowledge of the success of the social communication, not even having been notified by the Army ; and we continue without knowing what led the National Counter-Terrorism Unit to assist in investigations, since the Government has very likely confirmed that the risks of internal security or the association to any type of terrorist activity were minor or non-existent. As Mr President, let me say, we are still at the limit, not knowing whether it is true or not that you have stayed in the drawer for a year, an order to change and strengthen security measures in the Tanks countries. This is not a debate to agitate neither the Government nor the Minister of Defence, in particular, is not a common political-party debate ; it is a debate for the security of the State and for a competent guardianship capable of preventing and acting whenever the security of the State is called into question. Replies which Parliament has the right to obtain. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u3	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : CDS and PSD — this is the order — have decided to promote this current debate on the disappearance of military material from Tankos. It should be noted that if the aim of these parties was to clear up responsibilities, it would be to deepen the discussion on the causes and problems that allowed these events and the full clarification of these unfortunate events, they could always have chosen to discuss this subject at the meeting of the National Defence Commission, with the presence of the Minister, already on Wednesday, because such discussion within the Commission, in addition to further extending, could allow the transmission of confidential or confidential information to Parliament. But if it is unfortunate that the PSD and CDS choose this discussion model for this subject of extreme sensitivity, the Minister's choice to give interviews without first clarifying Parliament is also rather unfortunate. We understand that it would have been much more correct than, rather than giving interviews, where we attended a minister, in the manner of commentator, to launch various hypotheses, doubts and scenarios, which do not help the clarification, on the contrary only help the confusion, the Minister if he had first addressed the Parliament of our country. It is absurd that, after the various clarifications provided by the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, the General Chief of the Army Staff, and the General Chief of the Armed Forces Staff, the Minister now comes in an interview with the possibility of dealing with a problem of slaughter or inventory. Minister, isn't there a regular check on the material that goes to slaughter? No inventory? Is there no transmission of inventory information when the Chiefs of Staff of the branches happen? And did the Army General Inspectorate not know or know anything about this? Mr Minister, this is too bad for Mr Minister to be included in the bench of those who are dedicated to speculating. Instead of speculating in the social communication, which just adds noise to something already loud, we believe that the Minister should present the conclusions of the internal investigation and clarify what has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u6	In addition, and irrespective of the criminal responsibilities of the Public Prosecutor, the Minister must prepare and withdraw the declarations with the assumption of responsibilities also of the Minister, since, in accordance with Article 199. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, Mr. Minister has administrative competence with regard to national defence to direct the services and activities of the direct administration of the State, the civilian and the military, and has the power to superintendent indirect administration and exercise protection over autonomous administration. Mr Minister, here, as in other cases, as in the case of deaths in the course of Commands, and independently, as you said, of the clearance of criminal responsibilities, guilt cannot die single and the political responsibilities of the guardians, the responsibility of those who command at the highest levels in the Armed Forces must be imputed and/or assumed. Mr Minister, after several years of disinvestment that have degraded the operational conditions of the various branches of the Armed Forces, allowing these scandals to continue unpunished and without those responsible to be held accountable is a hard blow to the credibility of the Armed Forces, which does not have or will have the support of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u7	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theft of military weapons in Tanks last June—more than two hundred grenades of various types, explosives, triggers, cutting charges, about 1500 9 mm cartridges and other war material—was an extremely serious event. This sad and serious event means a horrendous failure of the State, it becomes imperative, as soon as possible, to clear up the responsibilities to the end, at any cost and pray to those who hurt.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u10	That was what the Left Block Parliamentary Group called for, requesting a set of clarifications from the Ministry of Defence and for strict investigation. The Left Block does not accept that guilt, once again, dies single in the military institution. We see the sad famous process of submarines: still today we are waiting for these answers and clarifications. In this way, the country cannot limit itself to watching the release and readmission of five military commanders and virtually nothing else happens. The Left Block was also very surprised by the Minister's statements that, within the limit, there could have been no theft, since there was no visual evidence, no witness, no confession about the theft of material. The situation is all the more strange as the Army admitted the breach of the security perimeter in the countries of Tanks and the collapse of two pairs, leading to the disappearance of military material. In fact, the Chief of the Army's Chief of Staff himself, in hearing in the Assembly of the Republic, reported that the responsibilities were all military, that what happened had to do with structural and systemic errors, that there was disillusionment and lack of supervision and that there had been internal complicity, hence the exemption of the five later readmitted military commanders. The Attorney-General of the Republic also reported that they were in question suspected of the practice of crimes of criminal association, international arms trafficking and international terrorism. in this way « does not beat the boot with the partridge»!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u11	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u12	We know that investigations and investigations have been carried out by the Military Judicial Police, the Judicial Police and the military institution, we also know that there are reports prepared by the branches of the Armed Forces, by the Inspectorate-General of National Defence, but it is still regrettable that the Assembly of the Republic knows virtually nothing officially since these reports have been classified as « secrets », only knowing that some decisions have been made by the Army, in particular in terms of the storage and safety of war material. If the government has not been well in this matter, then the right parties, PSD and CDS, much less. Because they have no political facts of relevant national interest, they seek to do political chicana around certain events: it was about the fires and the ghost lists of Pedrogão Grande, it was about the disappearance of the military material... Ask, the wrong and the right, the head of ministers. The right one's really lost head and no one's ever, or almost no one's, takes them seriously. They have not yet complied with the idea that they no longer rule the country and that they were defeated in 2015. Now they were even frightened by the fact that the Standard & Poor’s rating agency has removed Portugal from the garbage level in which it had been, since January 2012, the situation imposed by the PSD / CDS government and that so many evils have caused the country. And they must be very concerned about the overwhelming defeat that is already announced for the PSD and CDS in the upcoming elections. Mr Minister, can you forward to Parliament a few more details on the reports produced by the military institution in relation to the material produced? After all, there was or was there no military material theft in Tancos? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Greens also consider that, given the nature of the matter we are dealing with today in this debate, it would have been more prudent, I think, that PSD and CDS have promoted this debate in committee. In fact, there is no doubt that the debate in committee would allow for another kind of clarification which, in plenary session, we consider will not be provided. However, they agreed to mark this debate in plenary. It is very likely that the objective is not even the full explanation of the situation, but since the debate is under way, the Greens will take part in it, as it is obvious. I therefore address the Minister to say that what has already been known as "the assault on the countries of Tanks" is extremely serious. in fact, what the Portuguese knew was that they were stolen from material tanks such as grenades, ammunition, explosives. So it's not a joke, obviously. Then there is a series of questions that tell the story in a completely distorted and confusing way for the Portuguese generality, including the fact that it had come to the public that, eventually, that material would not have any danger at all because it was already obsolete and out of date. But the exercise I will ask the Minister to do is that he rightly puts himself on the side of the Portuguese people who are watching this issue. Mr Minister, it is to be hoped that history ends up being confused because suddenly Mr Minister hears these words: "there may not have been any theft at all. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Confusion! Has there been a slaughter? Has there been any theft? Then we ask ourselves, then, is there not an effective record of the material? What if he was shot down there's no record of the material he was shot down? How do you do that? There is also the question of lack of surveillance. There is a video surveillance system that I'm going to ask Mr Minister how many years ago it hasn't worked. Certainly, a video surveillance system led to a considerable investment being made. Isn't it working for how long? Why isn't it working? And is it important that it works? Therefore, Mr Minister, in the midst of this whole confusion, of those statements which have not helped anything, the Portuguese feel at least with a huge lack of confidence. And the normal thing will be that they feel even with great insecurity. The Greens therefore also consider that there are clarifications to be provided today by the Minister. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u15	For an intervention, Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u16	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group has accompanied the National Defence Commission in its consensus on the needs of all facts and responsibilities in the Tanks incident. We believe that the issues related to the defence of the nation are a design of the country and, as such, cannot and should not be used as a political-party weapon. Not being above or beyond the scope of parliamentary scrutiny, defence matters, however, have been treated over time, in this House, with a sense of State and due reserve. The proof of this is that we have essentially agreed, as demonstrated by the common line of conduct between Parliament, the President of the Republic and the Government. The most important thing is to ascertain the facts, to understand what really happened and to take the necessary steps to prevent such events from happening again. After all, it is national security and defence that we are dealing with, matters of sovereignty par excellence. They thus become difficult to understand the positions of the PSD and the CDS, translated into unprecedented political and party excitement and frenzy around national defence issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Without arguments and without alternatives to present on the substantive issues of national defence, have they decided to take refuge in the area of party dispute, waving ghosts and entertaining themselves to ask, at the same time, for the resignation of the Minister or for the resignation of the military leaders, or for the resignation of both? They seem to forget that this is an area that is not proper for these exercises, too serious to be treated so unwisely. Mrs Assunção Cristas said, in the debate of the State of the Nation, only a few days after the incident and before any conclusion, that "the country was in a state of emergency" and the CDS hastened to request the resignation of the Minister and the head of the army. The PSD leader, a few days after the incident, asked why there was still no resignation, leaving in the air the suggestion of resignation of the Minister of Defense and the military leaders. Now, last week, it came back on this request, still using the subject as a partisan weapon. And the question that arises at this time is that it will make some sense to pull the country into the attack and alarm the Portuguese, when we know that the Government, the Armed Forces and the judiciary are doing their work. The reports are completed within the deadlines and they have been drawn up immediately in the field of the security of national countries and military facilities. It is true that further clarifications are still needed, including criminal investigations still under way. The political struggle in democracy cannot undermine the sense of state that is required of us in such matters and importance. It is not legitimate, nor is it acceptable, that the political debate on one of these issues should take place, above all, in the public square, with requests for resignation and systematic attacks on the Minister of Defence and military leaders, as we have been watching. We are dealing with the Armed Forces and this blatant confrontational style will not help us at all to regain credibility, neither here nor in any other domain. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all, it seems that the good results that the Government has presented, with wide external recognition, lead to the right, denying responsibilities, turning around eagerly for occurrences in the areas of sovereignty and exploring them in the same style that it has been using for the bitch coming from the devil to the world of the economy. Fortunately, the Portuguese understand these maneuvers and do not let themselves be frightened. The country is quiet and the Armed Forces are doing their job. The PS, like the Portuguese, trusts the ability of the Government and the Minister of Defence to lead this matter, with the sense of responsibility and the serenity that is required. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u17	Mr João Rebelo of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u18	Mr President, Minister for National Defence, Mr. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This debate takes place 81 days after the armed robbery of the military base of Tancos. It takes place after five hearings held in the National Defence Commission, where it was possible to ascertain a number of facts unknown and often neglected by Members of the Socialist Party, who did not tire of devaluing and reducing these facts in an attitude shared by the Minister, of « I don't know, I don't want to know and I'm angry with who knows ». It occurs after a number of inquiries made by the Defence Commission to the leading Ministry, to which Mr. Minister insists on « making a big look at ». It occurs after at least three public appeals — three! — the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, Mr President of the Republic, to demand speed and effectiveness in the discharge of responsibilities. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But this debate also takes place days after Mr Minister's interview with two media agencies, where he made absolutely irresponsible and inappropriate statements that do not dignify the exercise of the office of Minister of National Defence. They are irresponsible statements because they undermine the credibility of the State and the prestige of the Armed Forces, and it is not acceptable for a minister to provide speculatively a thesis that, moreover, had already been removed by the head of the army, that the assault was gradual, assuming that there could be no assault, entering into deep contradiction with the report of General Rovisco Duarte, who denied this possibility at the time of his hearing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u20	And these are improper statements because it is not acceptable for a government minister to stand aside from a process of investigating responsibilities as if it were a mere spectator. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Minister once again obliges us to reiterate the reasons why he does not have the conditions to continue in front of the Ministry of National Defence. The Minister is today a minister without credibility, without authority, and therefore without the capacity to exercise his mandate. In order to better sustain the reasons already invoked by the President of the CDS, it is necessary to make a tape of the time of its political and institutional errors. First of all, in the face of the greatest military assault in our country, the Minister was the first to devalue the seriousness of the situation, saying — and I quote — that there were « very higher breaks and security failures», in contrast to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, which qualified this incident — and I quote, « the largest of the twenty-first century ». Secondly, the Minister has categorically assumed political responsibility for the incident, without removing any political consequences of the incident. Thirdly, we were aware that the Minister signed an order at the beginning of June to authorize the reinforcement of locks which were in a state of obvious degradation, and subsequently — it is clear — that the security situation in Tankos is not known. Mr. Minister, if I didn't know, I should know. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Fourthly, during the hearings held in the Defence Commission, we learned that those responsible for the Internal Security System ( Internal Security System ) and the SIRP ( Information System of the Portuguese Republic ) only had knowledge of the theft of Tanks 24 hours later and, more serious than that, by social communication. As it is equally serious that only 48 hours later is that the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit ( UCAT ) has been convened. Mr Minister, not a word of yours or any other member of the Government on this grave discoordination! Fifth and last, three months after the incident, Mr. Minister has nothing more to say to the country but to guess, conjecture or assume what may have happened, to the wake of all the appeals made by the President of the Republic. It's serious, Minister. And any of these reasons would be more than enough to justify your resignation. The theft of Tanks looks like a tragic media: the Minister does not know what was there, the Minister does not know what happened there, the Minister does not know what disappeared from there, the Minister does not even know whether there was any theft or what they stole! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Tell us, Minister : if a colleague of yours from NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) asks you what happened in Tancos will answer with the same disparity? The Minister seems to be the only one who has not yet realized that his stay in front of the Ministry of National Defence has become absolutely unsustainable, undesirable and contrary to national interests. And not wanting to resort to any of the statements by the leaders of the PCP and the Left Block, parties that support the government — Mr Jerónimo de Sousa and Mrs Catarina Martins — who are revealing, indeed, the distress and embarrassment that Mr. Minister is inflicting on management, remind him of just what some of his comrades, such as Francisco Assisi, Antonio Vitorino, Ana Gomes, all socialists, all critics. I quote only Francisco Assisi, who sat on that bench for many years as a parliamentary leader, who I quote: « The Minister « reveals an almost permanent inadequacy(...) to the specific requirements of the exercise of the concrete role of Minister of Defense ». Mr Minister, your inadequacy in office is only comparable to your political isolation. That is why, once again, I say to you: get out, Minister! Do not wait for the elections or for the next remodeling, go on your own foot. The Minister has an obligation to realize that there was a time when his words and omissions became a factor of disbelief, insecurity and even scandal. It is therefore up to you to answer this question in mind: is your continuing position still the first of the missions of a Defence Minister, which is to ensure that Portugal is safe and that the armed forces' equipment is protected? Think about it, Minister! The attachment to office is, perhaps, human but certainly not a service to the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u21	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A number of important questions have so far been raised about the theft of military material in the national countries of Tancos. I begin, therefore, if you will allow me, to distinguish immediately the different plans which, in my view, are at issue here. On the one hand, the criminal investigation plan—and I must insist on this point. It is to the Public Prosecutor's Office that the criminal action is to be carried out, not to the Minister of National Defence, as it is well understood, if it is no longer necessary, by the statement of 4 July 2017 by the Attorney-General of the Republic. The investigation, as it would be expected, is in secret of justice. That is why many of the questions raised by the honourable Members. Members on what is known and what is not known, on the investigation of the existence of a crime, on the determination of their agents, on the determination of their responsibility, discovery and collection of evidence, are the domain of the competent judicial authority, not of the Ministry of National Defence. As much as you insist, this finding cannot be replaced by investigations which have very different object and function, as pointed out on 4 September last by the President of the Republic, on the progress of criminal investigation. And I quote: "Two months and a week have passed, precisely, and I continue to believe that the entities responsible for criminal investigation are aware of the importance of time, how time in the clearance of facts and possible responsibilities is important and how the findings of research are important to the Armed Forces and even to the investigation itself by the Armed Forces in internal terms." Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, another plan which is convened here, and has already been convened, is that of the action of the Army. The Army has actively collaborated with the Judicial Police, and it has also requested the investigation process carried out in the Engineering Regiment No 1 ( RE1 ). The Army's preliminary report gave rise to investigations. Three disciplinary procedures have also been introduced. On the other hand, where disciplinary proceedings are concerned, it is up to the Chief of the Army's Chief of Staff, in accordance with the law, "to administer discipline in their respective branches". The Chief of the Army Staff informed the Minister of National Defence, who is awaiting completion of such proceedings. In addition, and immediately, active and passive security measures have already been strengthened in military installations and internal standards and procedures have been reviewed in the field of military security. Immediate investments are still being made in the security of the countries, pairs and sensitive areas of the Army installations. in this set, there are, for example, investments in the countries of Santa Margarida, already underway, and also in the field of security, in 16 units of the Army. Structural measures were then launched to ensure the efficiency of the device. I can highlight here, by its relevance and great complexity, the implementation of the plan of emptying the National Tank Countries, which will involve the active collaboration of several entities, in particular the GNR and the PSP, and which has been taking place since 14 September. Finally, a Directive on the reorganization of the storage device for Class V articles was drawn up and disseminated. with regard to the strict action plan of the Minister of National Defence, as I have already had the occasion to report at the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 7 July following the occurrence and within my competences, I immediately adopted two orders, one of which was addressed to the heads of the armed forces branches, to give priority to areas related to the security of war material, including armaments, ammunition and explosives, and determining that a report was submitted within 30 days, without exception, on the current security conditions of the military facilities destined for that material under their responsibility. in another order, addressed to the General Inspection of National Defence ( IGDN ), determined the conduct of an extraordinary inspection, common audit, to the procedures and security conditions in force in the Armed Forces within 60 days, also fully complied with. The reports of the branches, including, of course, the army, in addition to measures taken immediately, identified measures that had to be implemented soon and others that will be implemented in the medium and long term. In addition, the audit reports of the General Inspection of National Defence made recommendations on future actions to be taken. Therefore, a general X-ray of the current situation of the storage of war material, ammunition and explosives has to be considered briefly. As a result of these elements, I have determined by order and in accordance with Article 14. the National Defence Act, a series of measures to be taken. the content and substance of this order, before I was signed, has already been made known to the National Defence Commission on 11 September. Nevertheless, because we are in plenary and because of its importance, I would highlight the following measures: at the level of standards and procedures, the development, by the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, in conjunction with the Chiefs of Staff of the three branches, of a common information system for effective control of sensitive material, which ensures the necessary information and control of access to information according to the most evolved standards.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u23	Mr Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u24	at the level of the infrastructure, it was determined the development of actions of concentration and priority development of works in the various installations. at the level of human resources, it was determined that the processes of selection, certification, training and training of the military dedicated to security functions are improved. I shall conclude, Mr President, but allow me, in the end, only one clarification: all these reports have been attributed, by whom, rather than by the Minister of National Defence, to the classification of'secret'. I believe that the evaluation made by the branches and by the General Inspection of National Defence is understandable to all. In summary, and without prejudice to legitimate criticism, I understand that the government has done what should be done, and has done so in a very short time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u25	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Costa Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After listening to Mr Minister carefully, I have to repeat the following questions: what happened in Tancos? When and how was the military facility attacked? What's gone? What are the consequences of what happened? Whose operational responsibility is it? Whose political responsibility is it? After three months, rather than answers, questions are raised, since the answers have been, as today, none. It is in these circumstances that Mr Minister, ignoring the questions put in a letter signed by the Chairman of the National Defence Commission, gives an interview in which he stresses the confusion in which we have lived. According to him, « on the limit, there may have been no assault», thus adhering to the theory of the simulation of assault for inventory success—without taking or putting away what they have fired, at different times, the Coronelles Sousa and Castro and Vasco Lourenço. Assault or simulation, which hypothetically happened on June 28—and the date is certain—is extremely serious. We are in the field of national security, right at the core of State functions. And they all referred to it: Mr President of the Republic ; the political forces represented in this House ; the Government ; the military leaders; public opinion and published. Guard weapons from whom we guard cannot simply disappear! however, almost three months after the alleged assault, the total confusion is installed: the assault will have occurred on June 28—if there has been assault...—but, despite its gravity, the Chief of Staff and the Minister of Defence will have been informed later. The Republic's information services are aware of the disappearance of weapons by the media and the anti-terrorism unit only meets two days after the alleged assault. No complaints shall be confirmed or denied that judicial entities have been informed of the possibility of assault. The confidential list of stolen material, which may not have been stolen after all, appears in the newspapers. After the alleged assault, the Chief of Staff of the Army speaks in disgust and exonerates the five commanders of Tanks so that they can hurry up without embarrassment. Two weeks later, exonerates are renewed, certainly because everything has moved forward, but it is not known what has moved forward. Two different general officers, Faria Menezes and José Calçada, no less than the Operational Commander and the Personnel Director of the Army, go to the reservation. Why? Mr. Prime Minister, after returning on vacation, convenes a meeting with the heads of the three branches of the Armed Forces, at the end of which he promotes a statement to the press in which the idea is passed that a part of the missing material would be obsolete, as if it changed whatever it was. A week ago, the Minister of Defence, in an interview which he certainly did not have to disclose the findings of the investigations, which were even classified as « secrets », introduced the thesis of « I don't know if anyone entered Tanks. at the limit, there may have been no assault'. This, in addition to inducing insecurity, disallows the Chief of the Army's Major State and discredits the country externally. It could go on indefinitely. Minister, tell us what you haven't told us so far: has it been assault or assault simulation? When was it? Who was it? How'd it go? What's gone? On the way, identify operational officials and assume political responsibility. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first thing I want to ask the Minister is that he clearly distinguishes the Greens from the interventions that the PSD and the CDS have made here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u29	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u30	We are here with a deep seriousness in this matter and are looking, in fact, at the clarifications that are due. So, Minister, the first thing I want to say to you, after you have heard your speech, is that the Greens believe that the research being carried out should continue without any embarrassment. I want to tell you, secondly, that the Greens have not come to ask you for any confidential information. Moreover, at the beginning of the intervention I was careful to say that it gives me the feeling that, given the nature of the matter, the information provided in committee could be a little more detailed than those that can be given in plenary. But in view of all this, Mr Minister, and in view of the issues I raised to you, I think that there is information that the Minister could have given us that it is not within the scope of this confidential matter and that he might even help us to realize some extended responsibilities, including on the video surveillance system, the investment that has been made or not functioning in this area, which is essential. On the other hand, Mr Minister, you will excuse me, but with the public statements that the Minister has made, referring to the extent that there may have been no theft, it has caused confusion and this is not clear. That is why, after this debate, the Greens feel that the Minister still has to explain the meaning of this statement. I think that the Minister would have everything to gain if he had done it, as well as the Portuguese, of course, because it is in them that we think first.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u31	You have the floor for a new speech, Mr Carlos Costa Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u32	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would just like to note that we have left this debate as we have left the hearings we promote in the National Defence Commission. We have not, at first instance, come to the plenary to present the matter, contrary to what has been said.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u34	We have raised all these issues in the National Defence Commission, we will continue to urge them in the same Commission and we will return to the plenary, if necessary, until we have the clarifications that we not only have the right to have as all Portuguese have the right to have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u35	Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor for a new speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I just wanted to finish this discussion, because it was clear today that the PSD and the CDS do not look at the means to achieve the ends. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is that what was originally planned was a request from the CDS for the matter to be discussed in the Commission and the Minister made himself available to be present. Then the CDS and the PSD cooked the situation, decided to turn it into a current debate and bring the problem here, putting this discussion on the plan they have always put, that of the political-party dispute. So, Minister, you have our confidence, continue the work, which is what the country expects of you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u37	Mrs. Members, the Bureau has violated a usual practice, which is to leave the last intervention for the parties that have marked the debate. in this case, this did not happen, but it was not because of any secretary of the Bureau, due to my lack of attention to the situation. We have moved on to the second point of our agenda, which is made up of political statements. To give the first political statement, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Against all the woe prophecies, threats of cataclysms, predictions of the return of the troika and the apparitions of the mafaric, here we begin the second half of the XIII Legislation. Legislation that, by translating into the Assembly of the Republic the will expressed by the Portuguese people, in the struggle and in the vote, to remove the PSD and the Government's CDS, allowed to give shape to a political solution for the governance of the country that began a new phase of national life of replacement and conquest of rights by workers and the people in general. The political solution found in this legislature has enormous significance for Portuguese democratic life, in that it represents the collapse of dogmas that marked the dominant political and media discourse for almost four decades in our country. in this Parliament the lie has ended a thousand times repeated that the legislative elections would be no more than a form of direct election of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u40	in this legislature ended the dogma that the legislative elections would sum up a choice of the pre-destinated shift party, in the framework of an alternative without alternatives, to implement the policies of exploitation and impoverishment of many for the enrichment of few, according to the unique thought dictated by the interests of the great financial capital. in this legislature ended the familiar theory of the arc of governance, according to which the parties to the left of the PS could not have any word to say about the government solution for the country, and should remain referred to the marginality of a political system ideologically sequestered by right policies. This legislature has shown that there are no first and second voters and that all Members of all parties have exactly the same democratic legitimacy, the legitimacy that only the Portuguese people have the power to confer. The CFP has made its purposes for this Parliament very clear since the night of the legislative elections. He expressed his willingness to find a political solution that, in the context of the new correlation of forces of the Assembly of the Republic, corresponded to the will expressed by the Portuguese people to remove the PSD and the CDS from the governance of the country and stated that he would not waste any opportunity to fight for the defense, replacement and conquest of the rights of the workers and the Portuguese people. All the action of the CFP in this legislature has been guided by these purposes, without abdicating only one of its principles, without giving up its proposals and without hesitate to reject the measures which it deems negative to the people and to the country. That is why, with total frontality, the CFP considers it regrettable that PS convergence is maintained with right-wing parties on structural issues, relating to the sovereignty of the Republic and to the configuration of the democratic regime, such as labour law, submission to NATO and the European Union, ratification of CETA ( Global Economic and Trade Agreement ) or access to so-called metadata by the Information Services. [[PCP applause.]] And it is with the same border and in complete consistency that the PCP welcomes the replacement in this legislature of many of the rights that the PSD/CDS government had stolen from the Portuguese people and that many considered lost forever. The political turning of the new phase of national political life was not merely cosmetic. It had very positive effects on the living conditions of large strata of the population, particularly the least favoured, and had a proven positive impact on the country's economic development. But it is also in the name of this coherence that the CFP states that the verified turn is very much beyond what would be possible and what is still necessary. Without a patriotic and left-wing policy, without breaking with the submission to the euro, without the renegotiation of an external debt which sucks much of the national resources and without the public control of the financial system, it will not be possible to remove the constraints that drastically limit the possibilities of sustained economic and social development in our country and to significantly improve the living conditions of workers and the people. The damages imposed by the PSD/CDS Government against workers' rights continue to be reversed, particularly in relation to collective bargaining, holiday schemes, working hours and career replacement. Reformers continue to not see their right not to be penalized after a long working life and contributions. Extinct frequencies against the will of the populations continue to be restored. They are about to take more decisive steps to ensure fundamental rights in access to health, education, housing or social protection. The CFP has not given up, does not give up and will not give up fighting for these objectives. Thus, on the first day of the legislative session now beginning, the CFP has already re-presented in this House a draft resolution recommending the establishment of the national minimum wage in 600 € as from 1 January 2018, draft laws which aim to devote 25 working days of vacation to workers in the public sector and the private sector, a bill which aims to replace the extinct parish in 2013, according to the will expressed by their respective populations, and a bill that amends the teacher's competition regime in order to ensure the linkage and stability of their personal and professional life. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: under the circumstances of this Parliament, the CFP is very proud to contribute to its position, its action and its proposals to improve the living conditions of the Portuguese and to defend the national interest. This is the commitment and responsibility that the CFP fully assumes before the workers and the people: do not miss a single opportunity to fight for the defense, replacement and conquest of the rights of the Portuguese people. That's what you've done, and that's what you're going to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u41	Mr António Filipe, four Members were registered for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u42	Mr President, I will respond to groups of two requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u43	For clarification, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u44	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, the Socialist Party welcomes the recognition that this new formulation has been covered in the Assembly of the Republic and that, of course, it has the main protagonist of the Socialist Party. We can therefore not fail to rejoice at this public statement recognizing this initiative. With regard to labour legislation and other aspects that have been mentioned, such as the increase in the minimum wage to €600 already in 2018, when social consultation has an agreement in which the €600 are planned for 2019, such as the question of 25 holidays for the private sector and for the Public Administration and other matters listed here, we must say that there are no surprises. In other words, the Socialist Party has a perfectly clear position on this subject and defends social dialogue. These aspects are part of social consultation. With regard to other aspects which have also been focused here, which have to do with improving the living and working conditions of Portuguese workers, I would like to say that these are matters that we do not want to remember, in fact, those who have the primacy of collective bargaining, which are trade union organisations. We also welcome the contribution and importance of trade union organisations in this context, and that is why we cannot follow the perspective that the Communist Party has on these matters. The honourable Member has also set out the issue of long-term social security, a matter which concerns us very much and in which we are already, as everyone knows — it is public and well known — working on the solution that will benefit many. There is no doubt that there may not be much benefit for some, but for those who will be benefited I can assure you that it is a huge advance and a question of justice that no one in this House might question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u45	Also to ask for clarification, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u46	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I confess that he was expecting more vehemence from his side, especially after Mr João Vasconcelos' situationist statement, recently on behalf of the Left Block, when he considered facts without reference to the Pedrogan disaster or the assault on Tanks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u47	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u48	I was hoping that you would actually go further, because here there is a serious problem of awareness that the Communist Party has to have. The Portuguese Communist Party is consistent with the government in all the strategy that has been developed from perfect disaster in the organization of public services. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u49	You are right with the government when there are Portuguese people to suffer because they do not have consultations in hospitals, because they do not have surgical interventions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u50	There are teachers placed in schools 300 or 400 km from your home. There are Portuguese people to suffer when, for example, there are notarial or conservatory services that cannot respond or consulates that mark meetings with citizens from there to three or four months. This is the responsibility of the Government and is the responsibility of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]] What will the Portuguese Communist Party do to effectively defend the most fragile? When do you abandon your rhetoric, I repeat, also a situationist of the government? How will the Portuguese Communist Party, in practice, implement Mr Jerónimo de Sousa's statement, which has found it difficult to repeat the agreement that led to the constitution of this government? This is what you are in charge of, Mr President. Don't run away from the questions. Basically, it assumes its responsibilities in all such evils of the current government in relation to broad sectors of Portuguese society. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u51	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u52	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães put here, in fact, a point that divides us: she opposed here the possibility of making an increase of the national minimum wage to 600 € in 2018, which we consider a measure of more basic social justice and, in addition, positive not only for the living conditions of workers, who would start to take that minimum wage, but also for tax revenue, for the revenue of social security and for the national economy itself. The honourable Member says that this has to be decided in social consultation. If social consultation does not agree with this measure—which is not surprising, because employers always resist all wage increases for workers—we are sorry, but the sovereignty agency elected by the Portuguese people was the Assembly of the Republic and not the Standing Committee on Social Consultation. [[PCP applause.]] So much so that the Government itself has made political commitments on the national minimum wage different from what we consider fair, regardless of the decisions of social consultation. Therefore, do not engage with the responsibilities for social consultation, because the Socialist Party also has to assume responsibilities before the country. Mr. José Cesario, we heard yesterday the president of the PSD complaining bitterly that no one recognized the merits of the PSD/CDS government. [[And no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u53	Mr President, by now, do not be a sectarian and acknowledge demerits as well. [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member here made the raising of problems in Portuguese society, which affect Portuguese people and which need to be resolved and improved, in particular in access to health and to a set of essential public services, but, Mr Deputy, recognizes the state in which the catastrophic PSD/CDS governance has left these public services. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Don't say that two years ago it was all great and that now everything got worse, because that's not true. Do not be sectarian and recognize also the demerits of the PSD/CDS government. Now, Mr President, when the CFP once again proposes legislative measures in the Assembly of the Republic to solve these problems, I do not vote against, which is what the PSD has done systematically. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u54	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u55	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, records the political statement you have made here and let me take some of the events of the last few days to also examine a little bit the political situation in which we are inserted. It was strange to see the PSD and the CDS in this attempt to, which emplasters, put themselves in a photograph for which, clearly, they were not called and, on the contrary, where they could never even be.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u56	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u57	When we talk about good economic results, it seems that PSD and CDS have forgotten when they announced to the country that the devil was already there! What has been taken forward is exactly the opposite of what the PSD and CDS announced and what they wanted for the country. If not, see, when it was decided to increase the national minimum wage, PSD and CDS said: "It is not possible! It won't be possible! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The minimum wage was already increased by 52 € per month, but the PSD and CDS said it was not possible because the economy did not withstand this pace. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] We have heard so many times that more rights to workers and more wages in the pocket at the end of the month were an attack on the economy. When we looked at the economy growing and unemployment falling we realized how much of the fear that they had transposed into our reality, in practice, was your ideology against people and workers, against those who live from their work, who tried to impose on the country rather than what was right, which was the valorization of wages. I still remember, for example, how the CDS joined the PSD to alert a cut of EUR 600 million in pensions—from now on Mr Nuno Magalhães will be able to explain how they would do so. But we have, in fact, achieved until we have an extraordinary increase in pensions, something that PSD and CDS always refuse, and we have already ensured, at least, that pensions will increase again in 2018, will not get frozen as CDS and PSD want.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u58	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u59	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether this claim that rights are always against the economy and that people must be sacrificed to the economy, in fact, has not been dismantled with reality. What we have proved over these two years is that the more rights and income people have the better the economy. Therefore, I ask whether the conclusion is that or whether the answer should not be to continue and deepen this path. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u60	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u61	Mr President, Mr António Filipe here makes a political statement, moreover, the first of the CFP, as he pointed out at this Legislative Session, that I would divide into two parts. in the first part, he makes an analysis which, I would say, corresponds exactly to what Mr and the CFP think, that is, in essence, it is all right, nothing happens: "We are here, it is true, but earlier it is that it was wrong, because we are now able to reverse everything". Until 3 minutes, basically, the honourable Member praised the Government, which would also be commended, because at least it would be a sincere political statement and would confirm that the CFP does, as it does, part of the current coalition that supports the current government. In fact, I had already written the question I was going to ask—then, what is Mr Jerome de Sousa complaining about? — because in the first part of his statement he said that, after all, the CFP had achieved great victories, forgetting even, what does not cease to be curious, in such a way that it existed, called 'infirmary strike',...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u62	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u63	That doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u64	...of a minister who insulted nurses, of the captivating in health, education, of the Metropolitan Commands of Lisbon and Porto, who do not have cars because there is no money to fix them, of schools that threaten to close because they have less than half the ratio of assistants and employees. I thought the PCP would stay in that logic of "nothing happens! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But the honourable Member, at all times, around 4 minutes and 24 or 26 seconds, thought: "Well, I can't just say this, I have to say something else." So, Mr President, you have come to talk about what the CFP wants now, I am counting on the State budget, which is the creation of 25 working days of vacation for all workers, the replacement of all the parish, the modification of the system of teacher contests.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u65	Where's the candidate?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u66	The honourable Member, more or less, from 4 minutes to 4 minutes, has ceased to have a more honest political record, obviously, and has gone on to « manage», if I may say so. In the face of this, Mr President, my question is obvious: if there is no replacement of fragesias...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u67	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u68	Mr President, I shall finish by now, I will just ask my question. If there is no replacement of fees, if the teachers' scheme is not changed, if there is not 25 days' holiday for all workers, if there is no increase in the national minimum wage, as you would like, what will you do? That's because, if you don't do anything, it's true that the PCP has just been smoking! And the PCP is very quiet. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u69	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u70	Mr. President, if Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares doesn't hurt me, I'll start by responding to the right in order to finish on the left...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u71	It is the so-called "end in beauty"!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u72	Exactly! Mr Nuno Magalhães answered his own question, because the second part of my speech, as you have just said, answers the doubts that could be raised by the first. He said that the CFP set out here a number of proposals, including the increase in the minimum wage, the increase in the number of working days for all workers and others, and ends with a specific question: what happens if these proposals are not approved? Mr President, the answer is very simple: the CFP will continue to fight for the approval of these proposals. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] If the CDS is willing to vote - it will be in favour of a great deal of help for your approval, Mr President! So the CDS has even a lot of responsibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u73	Oh, is it ours now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u74	...in the adoption of these proposals. We therefore call on the CDS to agree with the CFP proposals because this will be a significant step towards their approval.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u75	Repentance is a Christian act...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u76	We do not present here our proposals waiting for them to be rejected, Mr President, we do so seriously with the conviction that it would be important for the country to approve them. We therefore struggle for them to be effectively approved, because we believe that this would be very good for the Portuguese country and people. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, I would begin by saying that we, PCP, as it is usually said, do not flag in arc with the decisions of the rating agencies. We criticised who in Portugal considered that the opinion of rating agencies was alpha and omega for the Portuguese economy and that Portugal had to submit to what was the dicttate of these agencies. Therefore, as we have said and we consider the classification of Portuguese debt as garbage absurd, we will not now say that rating agencies are already good, because, indeed, Portugal is no longer in the trash level, according to Standard & Poor ’ s. Given this, there is one thing we have to say: we do not appreciate the fact that the Standard & Poor ’ s considered that the Portuguese public debt was no longer in the trash, because we know that if there is a new speculative attack on Portuguese public debt, the Standard & Poor ’ s, in the greatest of the calms, will reclassify it from waste. Now, the credit this has for putting the PSD's political speech in the trash over the last few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u78	This is absolutely unequivocal! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] If anything was put in the trash it was the political discourse that the PSD and CDS have been doing in recent years. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, in order to finish my speech, wanted to leave here a call for support for the initiative presented by the CFP regarding the increase of the national minimum wage to the 600 € already in January 2018. We believe it is a measure of the most basic social justice, which would be important for workers and the national economy and we make a call here for all political forces to accept this challenge...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u80	I conclude immediately, Mr President. As I said, I appeal to all political forces to accept this challenge to fight together so that the Portuguese can soon have a conquest of the most basic justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u81	For a political statement, I now give the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The better people are, the better the country is. I believe that this should be an unequivocal and unmistakable statement. It must be the well-being of citizens, of the population, to serve as a barometer for the usefulness and stability of policies and not any note by any rating agency. I think we should all have this in mind. That is why at this beginning of the legislative session it will perhaps be important to recall how relevant the whole course has been, and, on behalf of the Greens, much more could have been done, in the sense of reintroduction of income to Portuguese families. It was of the most fundamental justice - but it was, and it is also of the greatest benefit, especially for the dynamisation of the country's economy. Those who walk on the street and regularly contact local trade realize the oxygen balloon that this resumption of the purchasing power of families also brought to the dynamization of local trade. It is clear that we now have other fights ahead, because there is still much to do for people in the country. The Greens are certainly in the context of the next State Budget, but not only fighting for the defrosting of career progression in Public Administration, for the greatest progressiveness in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), for the fight against precariousness, especially in teachers, in teaching but also for the urgent need for the revision of the Labour Code. We are going to fight for a greater and more significant investment in the areas of health and education, because they are the social functions of the State that are absolutely relevant and which should deserve very particular attention, taking into account the ferocious massacres that were given in these areas by the former PSD/CDS government. There is another key area for the Greens: public transport and citizens' mobility. And here I would like to retain a little, to develop a little more this matter, which seems absolutely crucial to me. in September, the Portuguese families are already taking advantage of the proposal, submitted by Les Verdes in the context of the previous State budget and which was approved, relating to the discount on the price of social pass sub23 for university students. It is fundamental, the Greens said, and life has demonstrated this reason, and people today are able to take advantage of this discount in the social pass, which is fundamental to the motivation for the use of collective transport by young Portuguese people. Promoting public transport is decisive, but there is one that is absolutely crucial, which is rail transport. Today, we are dealing with the phenomenon of climate change and I think that all people have already realized that it is not to play, it is really to take it seriously. Or we understand, in fact, that the work for global warming mitigation is decisive or, then, we will suffer greater consequences from climate extremes. However, the area of transport and collective mobility is crucial to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but rail transport is the one that is in a better position to give a more effective response. Ask yourself, then, why is this matter not a priority in our country? Why does it not invest properly and adequately in public rail transport in our country? We need — and the Greens reiterate this claim — a national railway plan, which creates and establishes a strategy for rail investment in the country. We need rail transport as a source of response to the regional asymmetries of the interior. The Greens fought so much for the replacement of passenger transport on the East Line that they achieved daily passenger transport, but more is needed! Beja, district capital, has no direct rail connection. Rail transport is decisive not only in the view of combating regional asymmetries but also in large metropolitan areas. How is it possible, in the middle of the 21st century, for example, to have the absolutely obsolete Cascais railway line compared with the other national railway network? The PSD and CDS wanted to privatize her, we said: "No! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But more is needed, public investment is needed in this area and the use of Community funds for this rehabilitation. This line has an incompatible electric current with the other rail network and therefore this inhibits or makes it very difficult to invest in the renewal of rolling stock, causes several failures and makes it difficult to respond to citizens' fundamental needs. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u83	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u84	I'm done now, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work to take forward. The Greens, their Parliamentary Group, are here to raise their hands, their work, precisely for these good causes, because their barometer is the well-being of people. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u85	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record five requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u86	Mr President, I will respond at the end together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u87	All right, that's how we do it. Mr Luís Testa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u88	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, recognizing in her words our work and the result of our action in the Government of Portugal. In recent years, this country has experienced a marked transformation in the short term of government in terms of government action in the approach to transport. In fact, the honourable Member, in her words, recalls precisely what had been addressed in the Agenda for the Decade, a document inspiring this governance of the Socialist Party, its electoral programme and the Government's programme in office. Rail transport has not only a positive and significant environmental impact. Rail transport also has a positive impact in terms of territorial cohesion. That is why it is and has been a priority for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group with regard to the investments indicated by this government and much more will be done in the near future — so the Greens and the other parliamentary groups contribute to this — so that we can achieve a negotiation of the next Community frameworks for rail transport, because that is the only way we will be able to effectively respond to this need of the country. We are bet on it, very bet on it. I don't want a weekly train in my region that only takes people from my region and never brings wealth. I don't want the country to walk in two, three or four speeds. There is a response to this in terms of transport, and it is only given by rail transport. To play with words and actions, as some played over four years—for four years they played with mere budgetary instruments and political action—was to play with the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u89	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u90	We are not available for this to continue and therefore we need everyone together to be able to find answers to this effective problem in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u91	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u92	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is indeed very important for Portugal, but I immediately ask Mrs Heloísa Apolónia and all the parties that support this governance, which is what we have had in practice in the last two years with regard to rail investment. I should ask: after all, what are they complaining about, when in our country we had zero in terms of public railway investment? Oh, my God! When we talk about transport, we had nothing! And you don't complain? Oh, my God! When we present draft resolutions, as was the concrete case of the three stops of the train line Sines / Caia, the gentlemen, everyone, lead us together and then come to talk about decarbonization! Is that what you want? Oh, my God! Is that what they're proposing to us? Oh, my God! So, decarbonizing is not taking the trucks, for example, from the marble area and placing the marble on the train, transporting it in this most competitive way to the Port? Oh, my God! Isn't this decarbonizing? Oh, my God! What about the draft resolutions? Oh, my God! We would like to understand, after all, the role here in the Assembly of The Greens in the midst of all this history. Madam Member, allow me to ask you a number of questions, because there are some subjects that are, in fact, very important. this week, on Wednesday, we will present at the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution concerning a set of railway investments, but also road and metro, which are very important for Portugal and we are curious to see what will be the expectation of all, in particular of The Greens, regarding these investments. So far, no train, no line, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u93	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u94	It's just conversation everywhere! [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Question: when are we going to have the beginning of the works for the modernization and electrification of the Porto / Setúbal line to the beaches of Sado? For when are the international lines of Poceirão / Lisbon and Setúbal / Sines / Caia? For when is the modernization of the North Line, of the West Line, of the Cascais Line? For when? They've been in government for two years and there's nothing yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u96	We have some expectations regarding an answer. Is it now? — that is the question I ask you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u97	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u98	Mr President, Mrs. Heloísa Apolónia, I was tempted to say that I agree with almost all the claim form that you made there from the rostrum, but I remain in the redoubled expectation of what will be the purpose of voting by the Green Party next Wednesday, when we vote on CDS-PP resolution projects where many of these works are shaped. And there is nothing new there, just a set of works that deserves an extended consensus in this House. Many of the draft resolutions submitted, either by the Portuguese Communist Party or by the Left Block, fall on many subjects in concrete, from then on, the Metro do Mondego, the Cascais Line, among others, and therefore Mrs. I think this legislative session begins well, for the time being, with the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party, on a stage, falling thin and falling low. I don't know if it's because of the local elections...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u99	It must be! It must be!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u100	...or if it is to give signs that negotiations for the State budget are going wrong. Why do I say that? I say this because, Mrs. Member, it is very little, it is little, just come to say what we all want and we know. The honourable Member says that more public investment is needed. Do you know where the ministry was most captivating, EUR 361 million? It was in the Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure. What did the honourable Member do when this government stopped, adjourned and cancelled everything that was work, even maintenance, on the railway and on the highway?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u102	So, Mrs. Deputy was whispering to the side? Oh, my God! Did you just make statements of intent? Oh, my God! Mrs Deputy, during the Budget, did you not approve a rule that allowed these seizures? Oh, my God! Have you ever witnessed a degradation of transport services, how is it now? [[PCP protests.]] The honourable Member says: "Well, now it is! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” When she says « now it is», what the honourable Member is doing is recognizing that the previous government has solved the problem, began the return of income and allowed the good results of the economy to have more to do with the action of the previous government than with the action of this government. This government, simply stopped, said goodbye, and therefore the honourable Member says that we have to work more, that we have to invest more, now that everything starts, which means that, in fact, if there is any improvement in the economy and in the lives of the Portuguese, the merit is from the previous government and not from this government. But it's still in time, Mrs. Deputy. If you want to look calmly and calmly at the draft resolution, the bench of the Ecological Party « The Greens », together with that of the PSD and the CDS, still goes in time to, together, convince the Socialist Party to fulfill its own promises regarding the north axis, the south axis, the Cascais Line, the West Line, the Vouga Line... That is, the 2020 Railway that is scheduled and presented by the Socialist Party but that, as always, from the promise to the conclusion is going to be a huge difference. They promise a lot, but they don't! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u103	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u104	Mr President, first of all, I congratulate Mrs Heloísa Apolónia on the themes that have brought us, in particular, to the issue of rail, railway. Indeed, the railway has a very important role to play in combating climate change, because of the characteristics of the mode of transport itself. It also has a very important role to play in correcting territorial inequalities and in particular in promoting the interior territories. In this respect, it is said, the right has a'sheet of services' which is heavily stained by the closure of lines, of crowds and stations, so it cannot now come here, from one moment to the other,'remove the clothes' by what is not being done. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u105	But there is a very particular aspect that I would like Mrs Heloísa Apolónia to have developed more - it seemed to me that she would do so, but perhaps she would not have done it for lack of time - which is the role of rail transport in promoting the heavy railway metal industry, which is absolutely essential to ensure the safety of this mode of transport. If it is true that safety is important in all modes of transport, the more so is safety in such a heavy and so important mode of transport. Therefore, what I want to ask is whether it is compatible to maintain the safety of rail transport with a policy that has been followed over the years by de-investment in the rail industry, in particular in the EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company) and in several particularly well-qualified companies to ensure the maintenance, remodeling and construction of trains, in quality and in safety. I would like to know what Mrs Heloísa has to say about this. And it is still important to have a strong public investment in the heavy metal mechanics industry, associated with rail transport, because, from the point of view of the Left Block, the same is absolutely essential to create jobs, for security, for the development of the country and to ensure a modern and appropriate railway to the requirements of our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u106	Mr João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u107	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the political statement that you have brought us here in the various elements you have referred to and, in particular, on your approach to transport and infrastructure matters and on the need for investment in these same transports and infrastructures as a strategic element, not only for the development of the country but also for territorial cohesion and, in particular, for the investment that is necessary in the interior of the country, to set population, to develop the national economy and thus to ensure the development of the country and the improvement of the living conditions of the Portuguese. These are central elements in the political debate and must be present when we discuss the future prospects and the path we have to take to have a more developed country. And these matters, in particular on transport — not only by rail but above all by rail — must be considered in those two aspects which Mrs Heloísa Apolónia referred to: on the one hand, we need to have public undertakings which guarantee the provision of a public service with quality and which effectively contributes not only to the transport of goods but also to the transport of passengers, to the needs of the people and to guarantee the development of the country; on the other hand, we need to have the investment needed to provide the country with the infrastructure network, in particular for rail transport, necessary for those objectives. These two aspects which Mrs Heloísa Apolónia referred to in her political statement are in fact central. And it is extraordinary what we heard from the Members of the PSD and the CDS — and, in particular, Mr Costa Silva, still elected by the electoral circle of Évora in the Alentejo — with the past that they had, to derail all public investment projects, some of which he mentioned, in particular. In fact, Mr. Costa Silva remembered today to speak in the railway connection Sines / Caia, but he was four years in the government and never had the concern to see that the project concerned for this connection cut the city of Évora, leaving a third of the rest, with more than 50 trains per day passing to 10 meters of people's windows. Today, you make here this compounded speech, of concern with the investment on the Sines Line / Caia. It is appropriate to say, Mr : there is a top!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u108	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u109	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question is that public investment, both in public transport companies and in infrastructure, is crucial to solve many of the problems that people are already facing today, not only with the degradation situation reached by the metropolitan or the Cascais Line, but also with rail transport, often purely and simply liquidated in so many regions of the country. The example of the Mondego Metro and the failure which means that project faced with the railway line that served the interests of the populations and that ceased to exist is only one of the examples. I would like to ask you, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, in addition to the examples you have identified, what is the perspective that the Greens Ecological Party has on the need for public investment already next year, and using Community funds to solve many of these specific problems, integrated into a national development strategy where rail transport can in fact be a central and strategic element. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u110	You have been given a lot of tolerance by the Bureau, Mr João Oliveira. In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for all the considerations and questions you have put to me. I would like to say that, for the Greens, it is absolutely essential to place at the centre of the political agenda the matter of rail transport, rail mobility. Not only because of territorial cohesion (but also because it is a very strong reason), not only because of environmental issues and climate change mitigation (but also because it is a very strong reason), but also because of a whole other set of circumstances, some of which are focused here by other Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u113	But — and let me remind you, Mr Hélder Amaral — even for tourist reasons and for the economic dynamisation of the localities. And it is perhaps with a tear in his eye — Mr President, perhaps — that today we can speak of the Tua Line, Mr, one of those which you have taken and destroyed and, with that, the potential of a region for its economic and tourist dynamisation. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is true that Mr.António Costa Silva should have a little more smell when he comes here talking about Line Sines / Caia. [[PSD protests.]] It is that you do not know how to hear the populations, nor do you have any interest in the impact of your projects on the populations and what could happen, as Mr. João Oliveira here referred to the city of Évora. They did not want to know anything at all, because your arrogance has also gone through the railway sector and, in particular, now, let me say — for the brutal de-investment which they have made during your four years of governance on rail. The honourable Member has now come to speak of the West Line. however, they did not speak, because they are ashamed, but we could talk about the question of direct connection to the capital via Beja. We could talk here about the issue of the passage of the Alpha, which has ceased to pass in Setúbal in the capital of the district; we could talk about so many key lines, which could guarantee the specific mobility of the populations and enhance the economic development of these regions. But you have done nothing — worse, you have disinvested! [[PSD protests.]] But what I think thanks — without any grace, of course — is Mr Hélder Amaral coming here and saying: "For you, now it is! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now what is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u114	It's been two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u115	For the gentlemen, it is now! You are in opposition, now it's not hard to claim! But when they were there for two years, two years... [[PSD protests.]] And I will ask you a question, Mr President, just to point out that 'yes' or 'no' with the head that I have already been satisfied: does the Greens consider a less than the fight they have taken to replace the transport of passengers on the East Line? [[Pause.]] Don't answer! Mr. President, you're not answering. You don't want to answer. Do you think it is politically irrelevant to the population of Portalegre, the district of Portalegre? Don't answer, just point your finger! Don't you think it is essential that we have liquidated your intention to privatize the Sintra Line or the Cascais Line? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] Don't you think? Oh, my God! I wanted a railway line in a logic...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u117	I will finish, Mr. President. As you said, he wanted a railway line in a logic of non-service to populations, but of defence of great economic interests. That has always been your logic, Mr President. They never cared about the people, they never cared about the territorial balance! Look, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter, I do not think they have any legitimacy to speak! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u118	Having the PSD and the CDS-PP abdicated to make political statements today, on the basis of the current debate at the first point, we moved on to a political statement by Mr Porfirio Silva. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This school year we will have more than 10 % of students in public higher education than last year. in the first phase of the national competition, we had the largest number of candidates since 2009, those put first in political education increase 16 % and those placed in regions with lower population density increase 13 %. We believe that studying is worth it, leaving behind the sad narrative of those who propagated that we have more graduates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u120	Tell me who did it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u121	in the school social action, the automatic renewal of the scholarships came into operation: less bureaucracy and scholarships paid in time. It is an important step forward after last year we had the largest number of awards awarded since 2010. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As of this year, the result of PS legislative initiative, all students of an integrated degree and master degree can pay their tips in at least seven benefits, or in a more flexible scheme, and the tips can only be charged to the recipients of scholarships when they have been effectively paid. And this year will come into force the new system of scholarships for higher education students with a disability equal to or greater than 60%. We have recently known the results of the National Scientific and Technological Potential Survey ( IPCTN ). The figures show that while the decrease in public investment in Research and Development ( & D) drags an even greater breakdown of private investment, as happened in previous legislation, the increase in public investment in R & D drags an even greater increase in private investment, as shown in the 2016 data. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is also a strengthening of human resources in Science and Technology ( C & T ), with the permilation of researchers from the active population rising from 7, 4, in 2015 to 7, 9, in 2016. Let us now look at the other levels of education. The country continues to advance in preschool: in two academic years, they open more than 170 new rooms and, at the end of the legislature, when we celebrate the 10 years of the extension of compulsory education to 12. the year, we will have universalized the pre-school offer at 3 years. These are two relevant milestones, in which the Socialist Party leaves its mark. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The country continues to advance in adult education. With the concrete opening of 42 new Qualifica centres, the target of 300 centres to be operated in 2017 is met. The investment in the building was resumed. There are rehabilitation and modernization works going on throughout the country. We continue to invest in human resources. In two academic years, in the past and in this one, we will have a reinforcement of more than 2000 operational assistants in schools and in the next school year plus 500. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a question of improving, to a great extent, support for students with special educational needs and support for pre-school students with an assistant per room. for the first time, this year, it was authorized to renew the contracts of specialized technicians, who were already in schools, or with psychologists or speech therapists or Portuguese gestal interpreters. More than 1500 that, like this, are in time and time, where they need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We continue to value teachers. The continuing training plans of the formation centres of the groupings are all moving forward, because we well know that teachers are essential to educational success and we trust in their work, while in previous governance anyone who wanted training had to pay for his own pocket. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This year alone, more than 3400 teachers have been linked — the greatest bond of all time in one moment. It is an important step in combating precariousness. On September 6, all the teachers who had been requested by the schools were placed. It's an important sign of system readiness. Social action at school, which is back in support of the study visits, which extended to 3, continues to be strengthened. the step the support in the purchase of manuals, which extended the meal service in the educational breaks and which, from this year, will deliver free manuals to all students of 1. the cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We continue to value schools and their autonomy. It is advancing the project of autonomy and curriculum flexibility, with voluntary membership of more than 200 schools, public and private, giving more space to schools and teachers to promote better learning. The network of vocational education continues to be strengthened. The school success promotion program continues so that everyone, not just a few, can learn more and better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also in education there is still much to do, we know that. But what is being done is clearly mobilizing the best energies of teachers, students and families. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party has made a commitment in this House to wait for the completion of the work of the National Education Council on the evaluation of the Basic Law of the Education System in its 30 years of operation and from there, to contribute to the adoption of a methodology for a systematic and open dialogue to society on the prospects for updating of the Basic Law. The durability of the first Basic Law sat in the depth and breadth of the debate that built it. We must not forget this teaching and, without taking a comma to the political merits of the current plural left parliamentary majority, it must be said that a new law on the basis of the education system should not only be the result of the strict parliamentary majority of each moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u122	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u123	I'm done now, Mr. President. Others have already had this temptation. PSD and CDS had already been tempted. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But the PS understands that, since education pushes more at the pace of generations than in the academic years, we should work to extend the productive convergences that we are able to build. Thus, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will shortly present its proposals for a methodology that opens the Assembly of the Republic to a plural and extended dialogue on the challenges to which a new law on the basis of the education system must be met, and it is certain that, for socialists, also in educational matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u124	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u125	... the line of course always goes by better fulfilling and honoring the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, promoting an effective equality of opportunities in access and educational success. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u126	Mr Porfirio Silva, four Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u127	Globally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u128	in this case, to request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u129	Mr President, I welcome Mr Porfirio Silva for bringing the issue of education to this plenary session. I see, of course, his manifestation of the Socialist Party's pleasure and satisfaction with the state of education, with the state of education in Portugal. I did not hear you in your speech for more than 7 minutes talking about the current drama of thousands of teachers living in the painting, suddenly banished and overcome by a decision imposed, by an unfair decision,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u131	... by a decision that is even of dubious legality by the guardianship, which has changed a contest without prior notice, without sensitivity for people who will be more than 200 or 250 km away from home. I didn't hear a word, sir! Nor have I heard a word about something the PSD has repeated and repeated throughout the past year and that is again a problem this year. We do not forget that, this school year, for the more than 3000 missing operational assistants to ensure what is required for the proper functioning of our schools, the answer was very short: 300 effective, Mr. [[Protests of PS Members.]] They'll be more! In fact, what you did was delay the portal of the ratios published late. For what? For purely financial reasons, the guardianship will deliberately make a communication policy saying that there will be many operational assistants, who will only arrive late at the schools, Mr. Is this what the Socialist Party has to say positive about the school year, about the start of this year? Mr. Deputies, this would be things to make the stones of the pavement red! The schools really did not work the previous year, they will continue to work badly this year, there were schools that closed with public protests from parents and other educational community and, therefore, Mr. Deputies, come to say that there are 3000 operational assistants in schools can only be to laugh, because they will repeat the same number last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u133	Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to tell you that insensitivity continues and that it would be good if at least they could achieve the results that we achieved in the previous government,... [[PS Members' laughs.]] ...because we actually had 3000 operational assistants in 2015. That's enough, that's good enough, and that's not what you've been able to do until now. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u134	To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u135	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Members and Mr Porfirio Silva for bringing so many relevant issues to the debate on education in our country. The Left Block has no doubt that the public school is a little closer to what we would like and what we are fighting for when the PSD and CDS were in government trying to destroy it. We are aware that today there are more teachers and teachers in schools than there was before. We are aware that this office allows there to also be more operational assistants, more workers than those who exist today and which result from the portary that the PSD and CDS left as an inheritance to schools. We will have to confront this portal with the everyday reality of schools to know whether it is sufficient or whether a new strengthening of operational assistants will be necessary. We are in the middle of the legislature, it is true, and we have arrived here with an important budgetary strike. The Left Block has said, and it has come to reaffirm here, that what must be disputed in this State budget is the guarantee that there will be no lack or lack of money for education, especially at the time when the country has such a relevant budget strike. What I am asking, Mr Porfirio Silva, is if you do not think it is time to achieve such important achievements as the reduction in the number of students per class. Is it not time for us to achieve such important achievements as the linkage of more than 10,000 precarious teachers, for which the Left Block is doing everything so that they can have extraordinary binding processes from this State budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u137	I ask you whether it is also not important to get students to stop having classes in containers, as is the case with the Monte de Caparica school in Almada, given that the office is signed by the Ministry of Education and that only the Ministry of Finance has to sign. I ask you whether the PS accompanies the idea that these priorities must begin to be resolved in this State budget as from October. But, Mr President, in addition to knowing whether we are accompanied by these investment priorities in public school, which is still so necessary, I would also like to address the issue that you raised on the Basic Law of the Education System. The Left Block is only available for amendments, especially in this area, which deepen democracy within public school, and this begins by changing the management model.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u139	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u140	We are very concerned that the PS Member will make some kind of appeal to parties that, in the past, have made proposals to amend the Basic Law of the Education System to introduce private businesses and private schools with public payments in the Basic Law of the Education System. Therefore, we fear that, by trying to appeal to the right to contribute to this challenge, the PS is waiting for the train to stop the bus. What we want to know is whether we will have the Socialist Party's company in the amendments that are so necessary for the democratization of public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u142	If that's where you want to deepen the Basics Law, then, very well, you can count on the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u143	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good to begin this Legislative Session by congratulating, not necessarily the PS and its policy, but the 45 000 students who entered the 1st. the phase of higher education. In fact, this is a number that marks a positive trend that has been registered since 2014 and is therefore a continuous work throughout several governments. These good results are explained, of course, by the work of the students themselves, their teachers of non-prior education and the institutions of higher education themselves, who have come to suit their offers. While it is true that economic recovery has a role in these results, it is also true that there are a set of sectoral policies that bring to this place today: the expansion of compulsory education, the creation of professional higher technical courses, the CTEPs, the responsibility of the previous government and that this year have registered 6000 registered in politics and, in essence, a bet on demanding compulsory education and with emphasis on structural disciplines such as Portuguese, Mathematics and Fundamental Sciences. This is the work that is called into question when, contrary to what Mr Porfírio Silva here says, the school year starts with a curriculum flexibility that was announced in August, without public consultation, to be applied in classes that students do not know whether they include yours or whether your colleague on the side, with schools closed for lack of employees, with gross errors of the Ministry of Education that call into question the placement and life of hundreds of teachers, with deficiencies in preschool, with the absence of the number of students per class and with works in schools that have been announced but never happened. Mr Porfirio Silva, it is not just necessary to announce, it must be done, and we are in the middle of the legislature, perhaps it would be time to start showing some work. So, Mr President, if it is everything you describe, I wonder if you are in a position to tell the Director of the High School Queen Dona Amélia, who threatens to close doors on the 25th of this month, that of these 1500 employees only five — who are those she needs to fulfil the ratio — will be placed in schools before this day. I ask you also if you are in a position to assure Mr. Director of the Liceu Camões that the works that have been promised will be carried out or the people of Quinta do Conde that the new school will be assigned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u146	I ask you also if you are in a position to tell about 700 children 4 years old who did not take place in pre-school that, after all, pre-school education is universalized and that they are certainly wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u147	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u148	Mr Porfirio Silva, it is really necessary to start doing and it is not enough to continue to announce forever, including in the State budget itself. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u149	For the last request for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u150	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank Mr Porfirio Silva for the subject he has brought us today. The challenges for this school year are more than many and there is still much to do to reverse the direction of destruction of the public school that has been pursued by successive governments, notably by the last government, PSD / CDS. We, PCP, say it is necessary to get further. We would like to understand what the Socialist Party has to say about the CFP's proposal to extend the freeness of school textbooks until we reach compulsory education, in this case already at 2. o is 3. the cycles at the State Budget for 2018. With regard to operational assistants, we note the implementation of the review of the portfolio of ratios, as proposed by the CFP, in the State Budget for 2017. We have made a great deal of effort for this to happen, but we are still very concerned about this, particularly with maintaining the possibility of schools with less than 21 students still without any operational assistants—and we ask how a school can work in these conditions—and also with the fact that there is only one full application of this proposal for a review of the ratios, which has now been presented by the government in the coming school year. With regard to higher education, we must also express some concerns. On the one hand, the relationship between the increase in the number of students placed in higher education and the context of income recovery, which the CFP still considers timid and insufficient, tells us something very relevant: there are many students who have been out of higher education over the years, in fact, because of economic insufficiency, because they have no money to access the highest levels of education and to comply with a constitutional right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u152	Something needs to be done about this. There is also a need to do something about the situation of chronic underfinancing of higher education institutions, as has been denounced, in particular, even by statements by the rector of the University of Beira Interior, who in fact says that something has to be profoundly changed in the Law on Higher Education Financing. Finally — I conclude, Mr President — with regard to the Basic Law of the Education System, Mr Porfirio Silva, with only one question: is there now a possible amendment to be made, but when is the full implementation of the Basic Law of the Education System? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u153	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u154	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Nilza de Sena, Mrs Joana Mortágua, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa and Mrs Mesquita for the questions they have put to me, which I will try to answer as best I know. Mrs Nilza de Sena, political defiance should, however, have some limits. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to prevent me from responding to Mrs. Deputy? I think so! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Nilza de Sena spoke about the drama of thousands of teachers in the framework, changes in the competition and illegalities. None of that is true! I repeat: none of this is true! There was no change in the competition, there was no illegality and there was nothing like thousands of teachers in that circumstance. What has actually happened is that there are rules that have a justification that, by the way, the PSD does not understand. The extraordinary linkage of teachers is to put teachers where the system needs and was there a rule: any linked teacher has to stay at least one year in the vacancy where it binds, because it went there to fill a need. by the visas, there are people who sign below-signed to protest against this rule although they have competed for a contest where this rule was explicit. It's true, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u155	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u156	I mean, Mrs. Member, I mean! Because I do not hide in political demagogy and speak with the teachers, as I spoke in the Education Committee and outside it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, Mrs Deputies, you need to have a great deal of attention after what you have done to the teachers during your governance in order to come now to cry « crocodile tears ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u157	Madam Member, despite some strategies that teachers legitimately use to seek improvement and progress in their careers, for example, teachers who have signed 100, 150, 160 preferences in a contest, in some cases, has proved to be wrong - despite this and because we understand and want to correct the situation, the Ministry announced that there will be an extra contest so that, if they want, they can only try to correct this situation next year and then, by four years, to correct the general competition. Therefore, we are aware of what is happening, we do not do demagogy or forget the past, as you forget your own responsibilities and what you did in previous years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the operational assistants, this government, in addition to having seriously hired the assistants you had in schools, in most cases in precarious circumstances last year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u158	What about this year?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u159	... he has hired 300 more operational assistants and for this year, before the school year starts, he has done the same... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ...for more 250. They'll ask us if they're there. Don't! As long as it is not enough — and we know that it is not enough — competitions have already been authorised for more than 1500 this year. And we know that we need to continue, so more than 500 will be authorized next year. We are aware that we have not yet crossed the whole bridge, but we are aware of this, which you have not had and, by the way, continue to show it, you have not yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u161	As for the rest, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u162	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u163	Mr. President, I'm done quickly. As for the Basic Law of the Education System, it is clear that we want to deepen the democratic and constitutional character of the Basic Law and not to go back that we accept this debate, it is to move forward. But let's hope that the right will be able to understand that. As for the budgetary strike — this has been said with all clarity, the Prime Minister himself has already said so — we know that we cannot do everything in a budget, neither in two or in three, perhaps we cannot do everything in a legislature, but we are moving forward and we will move as far as we can because this is the way. The gentlemen. and the Members recognize that this is the way, that we are going in the right direction and that is why we work. We know that your contribution has also been positive to this path, we know that and therefore we can all continue to do so, because the path is this and the direction... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u164	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u165	I will now finish, Mr President. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, only those who do not know the seriousness of the de-investment that you did in the past term, only those who do not know how you stopped work in schools, only those who do not know how you attacked pedagogy in schools, only those who do not know that you think you could correct everything in a year or in two. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, be aware that you, who have chosen education to cut hundreds of millions of euros... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ...more than I anticipated the Memorandum of Understanding, they dug a very hard wound in public school and therefore, yes, it will take more time to correct, but let's correct...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u166	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u167	...and either you understand that or you stay behind. Do not stay, follow us, come with us, but come seriously, do not enter with forgetfulness, do not enter with lack of memory, do not come in trying to erase what they have done in the last legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u168	It is not always easy to manage the available times. For a political statement by the Left Block, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the years, the private shareholders of EDP brought home the superlucres charged at the highest electricity bill in Europe. With regard to the agreements on the left, it has been possible to implement some measures to start correcting this situation, but in recent days a series of reports have shed light on some colossal errors committed by the previous Government, which has promised to reduce the excessive incomes installed in the electrical system and which has ended up aggravated them even more. at the end of their term of office, the PSD and CDS government officials by the energy sector produced a series of diplomas which, discreetly added, ensured that consumers would be obliged to pay to electricity companies hundreds of millions of euros per year in the form of subsidies and various compensations. Every year consumers already pay more than EUR 1200 million of subsidies, value above the market price, for electricity from wind, solar and cogeneration sources, but previous government decisions have led to an unjustified increase in this overcost for consumers. That was the case with three diplomas reported in recent days. The first diploma allowed production licences in mini-water, awarded through tendering, to be transformed into solar power plants at subsidized prices on the firm's will. The Block launched the alert and, after the opinion of the Attorney General of the Republic, the Secretary of State for Energy cancelled this manifestly illegal order.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u171	Some EUR 80 million was involved in additional over 15 years. The second diploma is a 2014 decree, in which the right-wing government allowed wind power plants to increase their production capacity with technological upgrades and could charge for this increased production the same subsidized prices paid by the originally installed power. Only last year did this right-wing decree cost consumers more than EUR 50 million in over-costs and is now being revoked by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u173	The third diploma is an office, now also cancelled, which was published on Friday before the 2015 elections and which authorized the electricity to charge consumers on the invoice their costs with the social rate and with the extraordinary contribution on the electric sector. Read it and don't believe it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u174	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u175	Does not the laws establishing the social tariff and the EESC (Extraordinary contribution to the Energy Sector) explicitly prohibit this impact on consumers? Oh, my God! But under the liability of the regulator, this collection has even been made in recent years. Now the refund to consumers of this undue charge can represent a relief of invoices in 2018 in the order of EUR 100 million. It is also necessary to clarify, and this comprehensive clarification is required, the contours of another decision, so heavy for consumers, taken by the previous government in such a blatantly illegal way. After this news, many will have been open to favor sizes. They know that there are still other millionaire cuts that the government has brought out of the habit and that these businesses are still to be corrected and even to be fully clarified. This is the case with the extension of subsidized contracts in wind production, a decision taken contrary to the European trend, which in advance eliminates the subsidized schemes. This extension of subsidies over the next few years was proposed to companies in exchange for a head payment. The companies made the accounts and there was no one who refused the extension of the grant. The business ended up operating as a kind of ruinous loan to the public, an additional overcost in the house of several hundred million euros to be paid over the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u176	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u177	The regulator and the government should make known to consumers every detail of this harmful business done by the previous government and its effects on turnover should be disclosed over the coming years. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The EDP does not comply with the change in the political cycle or with some decisions to defend the public interest taken by the majority in Parliament and by the Government. He reacts in an outbreak of judicial litigation and a propaganda offensive, claiming that there is and is a war against EDP. Only in 2017 has EDP filed three judicial actions against the State, one of which is directly against the person of the current Secretary of State. However, following the constitution of the main administrators of EDP, public attention to excessive income paid since 2007 for CMEC ( Costs of Maintenance of the Contractual Balance ), led to a widespread demand for rigor and political correction and the EDP ceased to appear unto be untouchable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u179	It is increasingly apparent that the astronomical profits of the electric sector sit in bad politics and promiscuity with power. In the coming days, however, it is to expect an increase in the industry's propaganda and more complaints about persecution and the bad will of political power. It is not to expect anything else, until we are on the eve of the CMEC review, with a view to defining the future remuneration of the plants covered by this scheme. This correctness of accounts should be recovered in favour of consumers, which has been unduly charged over the course of 10 years. Parliament's decision which, with the sole abstention from the PSD, called for the elimination of excessive income in the electricity sector in the future should be obeyed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u181	As long as Portugal is the haven of "retentism" in the electric sector, we will continue to be price recordists, energy poverty records and seasonal mortality records. And the ads of sustainable transition policies for renewables or efficiency will not go away from misleading advertising.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u183	in the process of revision of CMECs, and in general in combating excessive income in the electric sector, expectations about the performance of the government increase with the correct decisions that have been made in this area. If this scandal is met, we will finally be able to check electricity prices in Portugal for the beginning of a sensitive reduction, as urgent as it is in a country where energy poverty is a victim every year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u184	Four Mrs are registered. Members to put questions to Mr Jorge Costa, who in the meantime informed the Bureau that he would answer in sets of two. First of all, in order of inscription, Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Costa, first of all I thank you for bringing this topic so relevant to the country, until the energy and its energy-related public policies became, in our view, in the great example that proves that the country is different and is looking at people, looking at citizens and consumers. This is, in fact, an example of this and an example of what this government is doing differently. On the other hand, this government has overcome obstacles behind obstacles. The honourable Member mentioned several of these obstacles in his speech and I would say more: they are traps behind traps that obviously have difficulty the aim of this government and the parliamentary groups that support it — looking at the consumer and reducing the costs of energy. That is why we can say very clearly that, from our point of view — and I think that much of those who are here will agree — there is a line that clearly separates this government from the performance of the PSD/CDS Government in terms of energy: while what the PSD/CDS Government encouraged was to ensure all the conditions — extra-marketed conditions, say in truth, so that companies would guarantee high income, which encourages the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the CFP, the Left Block and the Greens, is to ensure all the conditions to end the abuses described here by Mr Jorge Costa, on the one hand, but also to end the excessive income, which is obviously a problem that has penalized citizens and consumers. So, dear ladies, we are in front of a new time,... [[PSD protests.]] ... a time when determining the ways of energy management is the government and not the companies, which influence the government to determine other ways of energy management. This is indeed a new time, a time for consumers and the country to thank and make people better, which is the goal of politics and governments. I should like to conclude by asking a specific question: in view of this difficult context we have just mentioned, of traps behind traps, of obstacles behind obstacles and even of intimidation to the government by some companies, is it not important that the Government continue and deepen the policies that defend the transparency of the sector, in addition to the many measures that have been implemented in the State budget itself, and not only, and also the reduction of energy costs, at whose cost it costs? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u186	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Costa, it is of the utmost importance to discuss and denounce the practices that have been followed by successive governments—and I stress successive governments—because, to date, all bills of orders, decisions and complaints, which have been taken over the years, are still to appear. in essence, what you mentioned in your political statement was the centre of our complaint and our reference at the recent meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, with the Minister of Economy and the Secretary of State for Energy, in which we have highlighted situations like this and others that are at least incomprehensible and inexplicable and, in some cases, genuine national scandals, such as those that I would like to add to the role that you have brought here. I begin with the situation set out in Ordinance No 85 -A / 2013 — theoretically to lower the interest rate payable by the fixed plot of CMECs — as referred to in Article 1. o : « This portfolio approves, in accordance with the assumptions and methodology contained in the proposal submitted by EDP — Energy Production Management, S.A.. , the nominal rate... » and continues. That is, as we had the opportunity to say at the time, in previous governance we had no outsourcing governance, but rather the privatization of the government, because a newspaper office of the Republic accepted as good, without asking anyone any questions, the assumptions and methodology contained in the proposal presented by EDP. And that's how the rate was defined in the Journal of the Republic. Already in previous governments, we had concessions—as in the case of dams to EDP, EDP company—in which an assessment by REN itself of a grant value of EUR 1, 6 billion for 20 years was ultimately settled in a concession in which EDP paid EUR 759 million: This means that at least the state was cheated by around EUR 840 million. We are talking about millions, hundreds of millions, billions of euros, but taking into account what we are talking about, in relation to the results of EDP, it gives us the will to say as the worker of the piece of Bertolt Brecht said : « here is the remedy. - But where's our coat? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u188	Sir, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u189	I'm done now, Mr. President. And where's the jacket? It is appropriate to say that it is a bodyguard accumulated in the profits and results of the EDP and the energy sector over the years, which puts on the table the central issue of public control, public management and the central domain of a strategic sector that must be at the service of the people and the country so that we are not here discussing remedies, when the jacket and bodyguard are being fully worn and accumulated over these years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u190	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS, has the floor to request clarifications. [[Pause.]] Mr Jorge Costa wants to answer the first two questions and then the others. in this case, and with an apology, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Carlos Pereira, PS, and Bruno Dias, PCP, I begin by thanking the questions. In fact, we have a flagrant clash between the previous government's promises of energy income and what was its practice. We could talk all day about the business that the privatisation of EDP has set up as a rule in the sector and that successive governments—as Mr Bruno Dias said — have been put into practice, but there is one aspect which I would like to stress here on the issue of transparency raised by Mr Carlos Pereira, which is precisely the impact of the EESC's costs and the social rate on consumer turnover. This is a truly amazing element of the policy of the previous government, which took on the money that the law defined should be delivered by the companies to finance the discount of those most needed and distributed this burden by all consumers, to relieve EDP and keep its profits exactly untouched. But what is most astonishing is that such a blatantly illegal norm, such an order in shock with the legislation in force may have passed between the raindrops of the regulator. Therefore, it is clear here that there is insufficient regulation to ensure minimum transparency in this sector. In addition, this case teaches us that there is still a need for democracy, Parliament and the Government, on behalf of the public interest and for the containment of energy costs that are part of the Government's programme approved here in a joint action, to have the results which clearly and flagrantly failed to regulate over the years. I agree with Mr Bruno Dias about the requirement for public control of the sector, not only for reasons of transparency, but also for reasons of national strategic interest, which should be assured. Therefore, the logic of privatization, if it means a degradation of this strategic position, could have only the consequences of transparency. But today it is in the hands of all, and not only those who defend the public control of the energy sector, to ensure the conditions for the elimination of excessive incomes that have settled in the sector. The PSD was the only party that decided to abstain from this design, when it was presented here, so it is important that the other parties who are committed to eliminating excessive incomes, or who claim to be committed to this elimination, get results and lower the bill already in the CMEC process, in the review of these incomes and in their elimination. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u192	Now, yes, Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Costa, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you bring here, because it allows you to shed light on the debate on excessive incomes and, in this matter, my bench does not receive lessons from any other. I do not have here with me, but I can bring you here, a set of Left Block initiatives to reduce electricity VAT to 6 %. Now that the gentlemen. Members approve budgets, support the government, are in the government, I would like to ask you what the electricity tax is. We can all understand what is going on in the speech and initiatives presented in this Parliament and what actually happens in consumer bills. I can give you another example: you have created or, better, you have not created, the social tariff is created by the previous government, but you have reviewed the process, made changes that have improved it and say that consumers will not pay anything of this social tariff at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u194	You can say create, because it was, materially, create!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u195	My question is very simple: does you guarantee, here, that this is not happening? Do you have a guarantee that this isn't happening? It is to see how far the competence and effectiveness of the Government that you support! I also want to tell you that there is a tariff deficit and, once again, the tariff deficit, which weighs on consumer electricity bill, has a father, who is called the Socialist Party. It was the Socialist Party that created the tariff deficit, which increased power guarantees, CMEC and CAE ( Energy Acquisition Contracts) in TIR (internal rates of profitability) which today need to be reviewed and which are considered excessive. It is not enough for you to come here, as Mr. Secretary of State said, to say that there are excessive incomes. The only government that ever had legislative instruments that, in particular, cut excessive income, was the previous government. You say it was little, it was late, it was the wrong way, that the legislative instrument was not the right one,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u196	It was bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u197	... but my question is the following: what is the legislative instrument for reducing CMECs, for EACs, for guaranteeing power, for cogeneration? You said: "Now it will be, let's now review the CMECs." You know that the review criteria that ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity) uses are given by EDP and by REN (National Electric Network)? Do you have any tools to change that reality or are you just going to criticize the existence of that reality? What you want to disguise — I understand it well! — it is that fiscal bill, which is the only thing that is concrete.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u199	It's such a jacket that was in EDP's closet. It is the tax bill of 174 million that was approved for EDP with its vote, with its silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u200	Oh, is that the coat? Oh, my God! That's not even for the wrist buttons! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u201	You're talking about something else! He's drifting!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u202	That, yes, is a bad deal for the state safes. That, yes, is the equivalent of the 15 % interest loan and as Mr Deputy, at the bottom there, there is some shame, being conditioned with this tax bill, comes here to cover up with other matters, without any specific data.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u203	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u204	The facts in particular are: does there exist a tax stamp given to EDP, which cancels everything the previous government has done? Therefore, Mr President, take on this responsibility, have the courage to do something about it and do not realize that it is promoting or protecting consumers when, in essence, what is being protected is the EDP. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u205	Mr Leite Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming Mr Jorge Costa for this very relevant intervention on energy. In fact, just like Mr. Hélder Amaral, when I heard him talk about energy, I thought I would apologize to the country for the tax bill of 170 and such million euros that they gave to EDP. But no! [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member has decided to ride the tide of the lying announcement, because that is what this is about, Mr. The announcement that the Secretary of State has made — more than one announcement, because he has not yet made the decision — is a lying announcement, because he tries, on behalf of a supposed illegal payment of the social tariff by taxpayers, to say that consumers are costing the social tariff. What exactly is going on? What Mr. Secretary of State says is completely different, although the announcement contradicts what he says. It has to say that, in terms of tax differential between Portugal and Spain, where the companies in question are acting, there is a correct account that is established by law, which is in the Iberian Electricity Market agreement, which is part of the Community directives themselves because double taxation is impossible. By hiding all of this, Mr. Secretary of State launches a smoke curtain, organizes a sort of file to entertain people and to justify the inoperability, lack of competence and, above all, the inability to continue the policy of the former Government to make structural reforms and cut incomes created by the governments of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u208	I understand that Mr. Carlos Pereira now does not want to talk about the incomes and policies of the Socrates Engineer, who, in fact, registers that he is completely abandoned by the Socialist Party. So I understand this decision or this formulation as if they had completely forgotten what they did in the past, but who created bonus rates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u209	Who was it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u210	...who created rents in energy were the gentlemen, who have no weight or decorum when they come to criticize others for having done it. [[PSD applause.]] The only government that cut energy rent was the PSD government / CDS. The rest is conversation and it is not worth having to be here discussing what, in fact, is nothing more than a political dossier to hide the failure of government policies itself in the field of energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u211	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u212	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is a file to hide, above all, what you have done, the tax bill that they gave to EDP. When they woke up, they were ashamed of having done so, and now they have to show a pseudo-combat against the big companies, when, in practice, what you are doing is hiding the mistake they have made. I ask you, honourable Member: does your party agree to end the Iberian Electricity Market? What is at stake in this decision of the Secretary of State is to break with these rules, to break with what is established in that contract and, therefore, to land all the work done in recent years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u213	To reply, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS is responding to everything but the subject that was on the table. He's talking about VAT, he says BE defends EDP and even accuses us of a tax bill. Mr President, the CDS and PSD have included in their electoral programme the elimination of the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u215	You wanted to give — and put in your programme — a huge tax bill and already before the term of office they were cheating on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u216	It wasn't us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u217	The impressive thing is that a bill may have been made for consumers — putting the costs of the EESC and the social tariff on the invoice — the payment of what the law establishes as the obligation of the EDP. That was your policy in the office that is now appreciated. And don't say that MIBEL (Iberian Electricity Market) will ruin by removing a similar aberration. It is not because of withdrawing an order that is incompatible with the law that the Portuguese electric system will be removed from the Iberian market. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, don't change the subject. We are discussing opaque decisions and at the threshold of the scandal taken by the Government of the PSD and the CDS. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I understand the discomfort. They still have in mind those famous offices signed on the last day or during the management governments they were part of! This is one more! They don't like to hear but that's what the public is coming and that's what scandalizes people. It is that the EDP had in the right government, which announced cuts in incomes, its best friend and the result in incomes was zero or, better, it was less than zero, because it resulted in more burden on consumers, consumers got to pay more. On the guarantee of power, on the grant of interruption, on all these matters, measures have been taken that have already begun to produce a visible result in invoices. This is a modest result, certainly, but it was the smallest increase in invoices in 10 years. During your governments, consumers paid more than 3% per year in invoices and that is why they got used to seeing the lowest increase in the decade, as a result of the beginning of this policy. And we must continue, we must remove from the legislation and regulations what you have put there and the holes that have opened so that EDP and the other electricians can continue to exercise their'rentism' without limit. It is therefore necessary to deal with the CMEC process with political authority, with clear objectives and ensuring that what has been collected over the years, which is identified as an abusive over-cost paid by consumers — EUR 2500 million, says ERSE (Regulatory Energy Services Entity ) — is returned and, forward, this subsidy should simply be eliminated. This is the mandate which Parliament has given to the Government, this is the mandate for which the Government has to respond to the country and we hope that the result of the review of the CMEC will allow for the first time in more than a decade to reduce the electricity bill in Portugal. We are the country that pays the highest electricity bill in Europe and we have sad memories from the point of view of energy poverty and seasonal mortality resulting from this energy poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u218	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u219	This reality has only worsened during the mandates on the right and it is this black heritage, which results from the exercise of your policy and of the previous governments, which we are trying to correct and we are going with great determination—and on the side of the Left Block can be sure of that — behind these results. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u220	Do you have any doors to present? [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u221	Mrs. Members, let us start the joint debate on motion for a resolution No 49 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016, and draft resolutions Nos 930 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejection of CETA — Global Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada ( The Greens), 1050 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rejects approval for ratification of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ), 1052 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Trade Agreement — CETA ( European Union-Canada ) ( BE ) and 1053 / XIII ( 2 ) — by rejecting the Global Agreement on Economic and Trade between the European Union and Canada ( CETA) (PAN). To present the motion for a resolution, I call on the Secretary of State for European Affairs to welcome this plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is an honour for me to be in this Chamber for the first time, especially to propose to you the approval of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. CETA is the most modern and comprehensive of the multiple agreements that Portugal is a signatory. In this case, this is an agreement with a partner with whom we certainly share commercial interests, which are complementary, but also a history based on values, common interests and a commitment shared with sustainable development and with high environmental standards, food security and consumer protection. in this way, we seek to regulate international trade and thus make an important contribution to the regulation of globalisation. As has already been said several times, we believe that this agreement will bring important economic opportunities in the area of goods and services, investment flows, job creation and recognition of professional qualifications to the European Union and Portugal. during the negotiations, Portugal has beaten its interests in order to ensure, among many other things, the protection of intellectual property rights and the recognition of 20 Portuguese geographical indications. CETA also preserves the right to regulate the European Union. The Union has not abrogated the prerogative to adopt more stringent standards in the future and to manage public services more appropriately. CETA establishes a new model of bilateral investment tribunal, which, of course, is not perfect, gives the parties greater legal certainty by appointing the judges appointed by the States parties to the agreement. We recognize that monitoring the negotiating process by the European Parliament and the national parliaments has been an important mechanism to ensure transparency in negotiations and to respond to the legitimate concerns of some economic and political sectors. during the process, several parliamentary hearings were held, responded to many requests for clarification submitted by the honourable Members. Members and civil society held numerous conferences and, in response to a resolution by this House, three major debates took place, one in Lisbon, one in Leça da Palmeira and another in Leiria, one with the presence of the European Commissioner for Trade. We know that there have always been a number of different points of view in this area, but we believe that many of the concerns have been addressed and clarified. However, it will be important to continue closely monitoring the implementation of this agreement with monitoring mechanisms and information and promotion actions that enable businesses, especially SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) to enjoy concrete benefits. Finally, I am confident that the provisional entry into force of the agreement, even if partial, will also help to reassure the concerns that may still exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u223	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau registered two Mrs to request clarifications. Members, and the first to use the floor is Mr. José Luís Ferreira. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u224	Mr President, the Secretary of State for European Affairs, The Greens have always been against this agreement from the outset. And this firm opposition stems not only in the secret and very intransparent way from how the process was negotiated but also from its content and the implications it represents for our country. In addition, this ratification process is indeed polluted. I think we have never seen a process as polluted as this in democracy. It is that the provisional entry into force of the agreement represents an absolutely strange and even illegitimate maneuver on the part of the European Union against the Member States because it puts us in the face of some sort of fact achieved, which transforms this process of ratification into a simple act to fulfil the timetable. In view of what is at stake with this agreement, the ratification process ends up reducing itself to a mere account, which, in our view, is absolutely unacceptable and unqualified. As you know, the Belgian Government has requested the Court of Justice of the European Union to examine CETA so that it can assess its conformity with European treaties and fundamental rights. Question: Would it not be more sensible to wait for the Court's decision before this ratification procedure? What's driving all this rush? [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u225	For clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u226	Mr President, the Secretary of State for European Affairs, is increasingly the voices that rise against CETA and are increasingly the setbacks in social, environmental, public health rights, deregulation, deprotection and destruction of the productive capacity of major Portuguese productive sectors. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know how the Government intends to preserve national interests, defend national production, social and labour rights and public services in response to this agreement. I would like to ask the Secretary of State in particular: how will agriculture and agricultural production stand in line with the precautionary principle and that is abdicated in the agreement? How will you defend consumer health, which is seriously at risk due to the abandonment of this precautionary principle? How will the Government defend products of protected designation of origin (PDO)? The Secretary of State said that the government made a great deal of pressure and that I got 20, but there are 137 Portuguese products of protected designation of origin that exist and that have been left out. How will you safeguard and defend the rights of workers, Secretary of State? How is the government going to do this before an agreement that only has vague information and principles that are not binding? These are the concrete questions we have left you, Secretary of State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u227	In reply, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr Carla Cruz, in response to the questions that have been put, I mean that this agreement is mixed, which means that it will only enter into force on 21 September the part which is the competence of the European Commission ; the part of the agreement which is the national competence will not enter into force at the moment, will only enter into force after the national parliaments have delivered their opinion. As for the other aspects, there are several issues that need to be taken into account. This agreement will have an important positive impact on SMEs, since it will avoid duplication of audits and will make it possible to maintain the existing standards and improve some of these issues. As for labour rights, they are not being challenged. There is also Canada's commitment to these labour rights and to accession to the ILO Conventions (International Labour Organisation). Workers' rights will not be changed, only companies will have economic gain with this agreement. So we understand that this agreement is dynamic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u229	You've outlived your time. I would ask you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u230	I'm done now, Mr. President. Thank you and I have taken good note of the requests for clarification from the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I just remember that CETA has already been ratified by Spain, Latvia, Malta and Denmark and Portugal can be the next country to do so if the Members do so. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand that. Frankly, if we fail to reach an agreement with Canada, as a strategic partner of the European Union and Portugal, with whom can we negotiate in the future? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u231	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a sad day for our democracy because we discuss the possibility of political power to give in to the interests of economic power; we discuss the possibility of handing over part of our sovereignty to the powers of multinationals; we discuss the possibility of giving up our courts to deliver disputes between multinationals and our country to arbitrary courts, as multinationals so much like; we discuss the possibility of multinationals being able to attempt action against the Portuguese State, if they understand that the policies triggered by governments compromise their expectations for profit. We remember, in this regard, the tobacco maker Philip Morris, who, under a similar agreement, attempted action against the States of Uruguay and Australia, demanding millions and millions of dollars, for the fact that these countries, thinking about the health of their citizens, have implemented anti-smoking policies. The multinational tobacco policy understood that these policies disturbed their expectations of profit and resorted to such arbitral courts. In addition, a Swedish multinational attempted action against Germany because Germany decided to abandon nuclear power. These are just two of the many examples that could be mentioned here and which illustrate the turn that CETA will provoke. Governments and authorities will no longer have as a central concern to respond to the problems of their countries and their citizens, because the great concern is just not to disturb the profits of multinationals. More : If Portugal ratifys CETA, it will be aligning with a civilizational retrogression, and may even be the subject of corporate blackmails. As previous experiences show, we will open the door to overlapping corporate interests to the detriment of national sovereignty, the ability to freely define economic, social and environmental policies and to defend public interest. from an environmental point of view, CETA leaves open the possibility for companies to circumvent international legislation and agreements such as the Paris Agreement, jeopardising any efforts to combat climate change. in the case of agriculture, this agreement will have negative impacts on small and medium-sized productions and on the production and marketing of regional products, since several Portuguese products will be unprotected, which will cause breaks in producers' income. It should be noted that of the more than 140 products protected in Portugal only 20 are protected by CETA. at the level of food safety, we see the differences between European standards and those of Canada with regard to transgenics, growth factors, hormones and animal welfare, and Canada is much more permissive and much less stringent than the European Union. In view of what is at stake, the Greens believe that CETA should be rejected by this House and therefore present a legislative initiative in this regard, i.e. to reject the ratification of CETA. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u233	For an intervention, Mrs Carla cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP rejects CETA, a rejection which results from this agreement to address national sovereignty, the interests of peoples and social, labour and democratic rights. Rejection of the agreement has nothing to do with the apology of isolationist policies that some want to make believe. The overall economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, which we are discussing today, is not just a trade agreement, but an agreement which not only aims to eliminate customs tariffs but aims to clear the technical and regulatory barriers by creating the so-called « regulatory cooperation ». In other words, CETA aims to further liberalise trade and services, pointing to the elimination of any barriers to the area of transnationals over the economies of sovereign States and forcing legislative harmonisation by lowering the regulatory, social, labour, environmental and sanitary acquis. The agreement goes further and seeks to prevent States and citizens from defending their interests by imposing a legal instrument, the ICS ( Investment Court System ), which overlaps with the sovereign jurisdictions and institutions of the State. The CETA, to be ratified, will, contrary to what the Secretary of State said, entail a backwardness in social, labour, environmental and public health rights and will lead to deregulation, deprotection and destruction of productive capacity. But not essential, Mrs. Members of the Government, CETA will contribute to increasing pressures to lower working conditions and to weakening workers'rights. We cannot fail to recall here, Madam Secretary of State, that the process of negotiations was not a process of democratic negotiation, it was a process that was made to hide, in the greatest secrecy and against what the wishes of the people were. We reject CETA and the other free trade agreements. We completely avoid the position taken by the Portuguese Government of acceptance of this imposition by the European Commission and therefore present a legislative initiative which rejects ECTA approval for ratification between the European Union and Canada. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u235	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u236	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We are today at the last possible occasion of public debate on the CETA and the Left Block cannot fail to regret that this is the case because the impact study for Portugal is not yet known, negotiations for years have been rather shielded from public opinion, the objections and warnings given by various organisations, trade unions and even some governments have not been taken into account and, essentially, the citizens and citizens have not heard. Today we return to the subject in plenary, but that does not mean, it is far from that, that we can state here that there has been an extended public debate and that there has come to the knowledge of the people what is at stake, because this simply does not correspond to the truth. These processes, unfortunately, have always been like this. The European Union has been guided by little or no democratic processes and the argument now used by the attempt to regulate globalisation is, in particular, a false argument, because it serves to hide what is really at stake: the promotion of large corporations. We are facing a new generation of trade agreements — this is just the first that is about to be implemented — which are no longer just trade agreements, are highly complex trade and investment agreements, which give too much power to multinationals and effectively withdraw from the political decision-making states for the benefit of citizens, as has already been mentioned. We must, however, focus on the most serious element of this agreement, which is also the target of what national parliaments will ratify and which is the arbitral dispute resolution mechanism, on which the national parliaments pronounce and understand why. Because, in fact, it is a model that allows the application of domestic law, whether national or European, to jeopardize the principle of the democratic rule of law referred to in Article 2. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, and also because it rejects the principle of courts as organs of State sovereignty, also provided for in our Constitution. This is simply because it is intended to create a private court, which questions the very public nature of justice, which will be governed by the agreement itself and not by national or European law and, therefore, we are before a sort of tailfish in our mouth: we are before a court which is self-sufficient, which is created by an agreement and which is governed by the rules of that same agreement without replying to any more legislation, whether national or European.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u238	Therefore, it is also far from public scrutiny and is unbalanced, because in this alleged balance, all power is placed on the side of investors and the alerts, Mr. Secretary of State, have been given, in particular by the National Association of Portuguese Judges, by the European Association of Judges, by the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, by the association of German judges themselves, by the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice on arbitral tribunals. There is no lack of warning about this mechanism and about the danger that this mechanism represents for democracy and is also paying attention to the process still taking place today against the Canadian Government, which is based precisely on premises that say a lot to our Constitution, namely the principle of equality but also on access to law and judicial protection. Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, this agreement has not so far been given the attention it deserves, which provides a precedent for new agreements that are taking place, particularly with Japan. It was not due to lack of warnings, either at European level or here in our country, but deliberately did not listen to environmental, labor, finger protection, agriculture, public health, copyright — finally, we could continue to list several organisations here — because if they had done so, both European institutions and governments, we would certainly not be here today to discuss the possibility of ratification of CETA, for a very simple reason: because the agreement is bad, it will have not yet fully perceptible consequences, it does not protect citizens and producers and it starts — and this is essential — a profound change in how we see the democratic rule of law, how we see and assume the role of that state's legislator and how we see the exercise of popular sovereignty. These concepts, which should be based on what is created or agreed upon by the European Union itself and Portugal, are set aside completely and the Block of the Left considers that these concepts are affected by the ratification of this agreement as well as by the constitutional principles of our country. Therefore, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to be accountable to citizens and citizens and if we want to look after their protection, their interests and the Constitution itself, we have only one option: to veto CETA. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u239	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking today about political responsibilities. Today, PS, PSD and CDS, parties of the governance arc, will ratify CETA in full consciousness, a transnational act between the European Union and Canada that is done as a corporate elite but worked at the wake of the citizens and without safeguarding important interests of all of us, such as environmental protection, agricultural production or animal welfare. This treaty has been negotiated for years at closed doors, far from the media's attention and with the political consistency not only of national Members but also of their European political families. PS, PSD and CDS today decide to earmark thousands of low- and middle-class jobs to a multinational business elite. PS, PSD and CDS today decide to mortgage the already advanced climate credit that our extractive societies have and ensure that the European project is increasingly a dream to fulfill rather than become a reality. The discrediting fat with these examples of more public policies. Even after the NAP has adopted a resolution here in Parliament to debate in depth and openly the CETA in Portuguese society only three conditional and circumscribed talks, to which the Government calls great debates, have been held. If this agreement is so good, so avant-garde, so much, contrary to the fact that the technical reports of non-governmental organisations of the environment, observatories and institutes, trade unions, sociologists, economists and other entities are alerting, why not warmly defend it in a genuine integrated and participatory debate? We know why. Because it would fail in the final test and the more you know what is proposed to change with CETA the more public opinion would change in relation to it. So, in the end, we further unleash our democracy of the best it has: participation and transparency. Let us hope that the Portuguese understand what the PS, PSD and CDS are validating, who understand who today mortgages the country's present and the future of Europe, that is because, ahead of all responsibilities will be attributed to externalities and markets, as is usually done in this Parliament and by the political leaders of the custom. We'll be here to pick up the poops and fix the house but we won't be tired of telling you: we warned you! [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u241	For an intervention, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD will vote in favour of the draft resolution by the Government approving CETA, signed in 2016, after several rounds of negotiations held between 2009 and 2014. Our vote is based on reasons that essentially take into account the best interests of citizens and the future of the European project, which we defend, based on the primacy of humanism, democracy and development. For us, CETA begins by means of the realisation of effective political and economic cooperation between two spaces with socio-political values and similar levels of progress. Canada is an extremely developed country with rules of business organization and protection for workers and the environment that are perfectly compatible with those of the countries of the European Union. Of course, we know that this agreement implies great challenges for our business and labor universe, which has known how to correspond to other very recent impacts and which now has another opportunity to improve production methods and organizational models that will certainly generate more productivity and more employment. On the other hand, this agreement represents a clear approximation between countries that reject isolationism and protectionism at all, a particularly important issue at the time when there are trends which are not consistent with the approach between peoples and cooperation between countries. It is a shame that some of those who hear are often very vehemently criticizing those who defend these more isolated positions now come, contradictoryly, to attack solutions that aim exactly to combat the isolation of nations and the protectionism of the most privileged.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u243	Exactly! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u244	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that Canada is home to a significant Portuguese community, which today must have more than 600 000 items disseminated by all provinces. This is a perfectly integrated community, which has an active participation in all areas of Canadian society whose multiculturality guarantees full integration to people of the most diverse origins, an example that must be followed permanently. [[PCP protests.]] That is also why it is important to conclude this agreement, because all of us, Europeans and Canadians, have much to do together to further improve the social, cultural and economic models in which our societies are based. Finally, Mrs. Members, I do not refuse to recall how the Left Block has decided to criticise the European Union/Canada economic cooperation partnership, which we have also discussed in parallel with CETA ( Global Economic and Commercial Agreement ). It regrets the Block that — and I quote: « Both CETA and TTIP ( Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ) arise to serve the economic interests of companies ». I repeat : « (...) to serve the economic interests of companies ». Is it possible that in the 21st century we still have a vision of this kind, a passerby, ignoring that companies are the great factor in the development of the world?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u245	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u246	Ignoring that, in general, they settle their relationships in a personalist logic, generating employment and wealth? How it is possible to conceive development without companies, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Should CETA not have exactly support for the business universe among its main objectives?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u247	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u248	It is in this kind of partners, with this past vision, that the Government is based on its government logic, which will obviously have serious consequences in the long run. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u249	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u250	Mr President, let me begin by congratulating Mrs Ana Paula Zacharias on her first intervention in this plenary session, and also by complimenting the previous Secretary of State, who is currently sitting on the bench of the Socialist Party, Mrs Margarida Marques, because I know that she has also worked very hard in this same process. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Free Trade Agreement is very important by three orders of magnitude and the ratification we are discussing today is also very important by three orders of magnitude. The first is the economic importance of this Agreement. With more investment, with more growth, with more trade, we will be able to generate more wealth, and this trade agreement is of particular importance to Portugal. That's enough, actually, let's look at the map. Portugal, which is often a peripheral country in European geography, is certainly a central country in Atlantic geography. And what the European Union is doing is establishing and deepening these same links with Canada which, above all, is a country with standards of food quality, environmental safety and social protection that are very similar to ours. [[Protests from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]] Of course, other parties would like to do this eventually with countries such as Venezuela or North Korea, but it seems to us that these are more similar to European standards. [[Protests from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]] Very curiously, the studies all say, in a very clear way, that this Agreement can boost growth in the European Union of about EUR 12 billion, and in this case Portugal can be the country representing the second largest beneficiary. We know that at present exports from Portugal to Canada represent only 0, 8 % of all our exports, but we also know that this can mean opening up to a market of about 300 million consumers to the 1400 Portuguese companies already established there and, above all, to many other Portuguese companies. in this sense, it was very important, because there are also challenges that this Agreement poses to us, for example, we have achieved the protection of most of our protected designations of origin, also achieving... [[Protests from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]] ... the dismantling of a set of tariff barriers, and also of many non-tariff barriers, being there that are often the biggest obstacles. The second order of greatness in the importance of having at present in the European framework the ratification of this same process is the fact that we know that there is today in Europe both on the Atlantic side and on the Atlantic side, a huge populist wave, a huge protectionist and isolationist wave, and sometimes even very noisy, which is against free trade, which is against the regulation of globalisation. This wave is seen, either to the extreme right, or to the extreme left, and we also have with us, in this room, representatives of that same wave, on the benches facing the bench of my party. It is important, in this respect, to demonstrate that the European Union does not allow itself to be imprisoned for this speech, which is a speech that always leads to barriers being imposed and to which the European Union itself can grow less. There is still a third aspect that is very important, which is the confession made in this debate by the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party, and these three parties that support today's government solution in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u251	What's the news? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u252	They are parties that have effective power and had the effective power to block this Agreement if they wish. It was enough to have included in the programme bases that they signed with the Socialist Party the brakes of this same agreement, but we know that you did not. [[Protests from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]] I know you are very vocal in this Parliament, but it seems to me that it is a little bit of that vocality, that logic, quoting here a popular saying...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u253	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u254	... that it would certainly be the pleasure of Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, of the « dog that barks but does not bite ». That is exactly how you are in this process. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u255	Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State and I would like to make a very successful vote in the exercise of government functions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are at a small step towards fully acceding to the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. Others already did. We are also at a small step towards thus opening up a range of new opportunities for our companies, already with the provisional entry into force of CETA on 21 September, as the European Parliament considered. It is with small steps but with a great vision that we are building a better Portugal. A better Portugal with the lowest unemployment rate in the last eight years, with exports growing three times more than at the end of 2015, with the economy growing more than in the euro area and in the European Union. A better Portugal with the exit of the classification of waste in the Portuguese debt rating, with better conditions for access to financing by the financial system and Portuguese companies. A better Portugal with the creation of more favourable conditions for the increase of our exports and investment, which is an example of the negotiation of this Agreement. We have often said that this Agreement is on a new footing, a new generation of European Union trade agreements. It is an ambitious agreement, in which five great potentialities deserve attention. First potential: the elimination of 99 % of customs duties on non-tariff goods and barriers, without jeopardising European standards and rules. Second: fairness in the protection of intellectual property rights, with the first recognition of the European system of geographical indications. Third: the liberalisation of investment services with the reserve of public services. Fourth: the creation of a new instrument for resolving investment conflicts. Fifth potential: commitment to trade and sustainable development, including international agreements and standards in the field of work and the environment, among others. With CETA, the growth in trade and investment relations between Portugal and Canada is expected, especially in view of the elimination of customs rates in traditional industrial segments in our economy and with export potential to Canada, as is the case with home and footwear textiles. It is also worth highlighting the increase in the quota allocated to imports of cheese from Europe to Canada. It is therefore important for the Government to focus on continuing dialogue and support for companies, particularly in these sectors of greater export potential and SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) so that they can know and know the greatest advantage of the Canadian market. The continued success of Portuguese companies, in a world where competition and value chains are global, requires easier access to foreign markets. The European Union has a key role to play in this process. Moreover, trade agreements with more than 140 partners around the world are currently in force in the European Union or under negotiation. In fact, trade policy is a priority of the European Union and even last week the President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, announced a number of proposals and initiatives to make trade policy more transparent and accountable. in this sense, we also pose a challenge to the government, so that it is increasingly committed to ensuring the participation of companies and workers, associations, chambers of commerce, NGOs (non-governmental organisations) and also of autonomous regions in the definition of European trade policy and the agreements that are approaching, so that these too, increasingly, respond more and more to the interests of our country. I conclude by saying that, when ratifying this Agreement, Portugal also reiterates its vocation as a modern country open to the world...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u257	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u258	...and sends a signal contrary to the protectionist and isolationist tendencies that have gained breath in recent times. I conclude by saying that ratification of this Agreement shows that it is possible to continue the defence of national strategic interest in an open and globalised world. We will continue to build a better future, a better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u259	Mrs. Members, having concluded this discussion, we have moved to the last item on the agenda, which is generally the discussion of Bill No 94 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for fire safety in buildings. For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is intended to amend Decree-Law No 220 / 2008, as amended by Decree-Law No 224 / 2015, which establishes the legal regime for fire safety in buildings. The XXI Constitutional Government Programme defined the transformation of the State's functioning model as a central objective, in particular by strengthening the autonomy of local authorities and democratic decentralization of the Public Administration. In order to achieve this desire, it was enshrined the extension of the participation of municipalities in various domains, including that of civil protection. in this context, the competences to appreciate self-protection projects and measures and to carry out visas and inspections to buildings classified in 1. the category of risks, in the legal security regime against fires in buildings, will be transferred to the municipalities. in the exercise of these competences, the municipalities will ensure compliance with this regime in housing, administrative, school and hospital buildings, homes of elderly people, theaters, sports and leisure spaces, restaurants and hotels, commercial and cultural buildings, among others, classified in 1. the risk category, according to the dimensions, number of occupied floors and number of effects. in the proposed law were corrected inaccuracies detected in the amendment made in 2015 to the said scheme and introduced some amendments in a set of articles necessary to ensure greater legal effectiveness of the rules contained there, clarifying concepts and carrying out specific technical adjustments. In summary, there are some amendments. First, the adaptation of the diploma to the proposal for a framework decentralization law in so far as, in accordance with Article 26. this proposal is intended to decentralize to municipalities the skills mentioned above with positive reflections in municipal revenue. in this context, amendments were introduced in 12 articles, and the bill determines that the full implementation of the competences assigned to municipalities is dependent on accreditation by the National Civil Protection Authority, of their technical. Second amendment: the creation of an accessory penalty for the prohibition of activity to be applied to undertakings which are not entitled to continue the marketing, installation and maintenance of fire safety equipment and systems in buildings. Third: the possibility of submitting safety sheets in less relevant urban operations. Fourth: the forecast of a transitional regime relating to the requirements required by professionals for the development of fire safety projects in buildings and self-protection measures. Finally, it should be noted that the hearing of 13 entities, which have spoken and have enriched, with their contribution, this bill. It is a proposal that ensures greater simplification, closer proximity and greater effectiveness in the application of the law enforcement regime against fire in buildings. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u261	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u262	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the CFP Parliamentary Group expresses serious doubts and objections with regard to this bill. These are doubts as to the need and objections to the model of transferring more competences to municipal chambers, without being accompanied by a basic assumption for the CFP, which is regionalisation, or the transfer of financial resources so that municipal chambers can perform the new tasks that are transferred. Therefore, this bill clearly raises a number of concerns that I would like to mention, Mr Secretary of State. The first question I raise is why this legislative initiative needs to be presented at this time and also why the responsibility for Category 1 buildings is transferred to municipalities and, for example, category 2 buildings at risk are not covered, which would be a prerequisite for the financial viability of the municipal chambers. A set of transfers is completed without any understanding of the reasonableness of the transfer. I would also like to ask whether it is reasonable, Mr Secretary of State, that are the municipal assemblies to define the rates applied by each of the municipalities, leading, of course, to natural regional and local discrepancies with regard to these same rates. Having identified other problems with this legal regime, such as problems relating to the support buildings of establishments considered as high risk or high danger, these problems have not been solved. Why have these problems not been solved, in particular considering the simplification of the processing of these same support buildings, to the detriment of others? Finally, we would like to raise a point that is important to us. From the legislative initiative it is not necessary, which we consider imperative, to articulate the concrete projects and security solutions found for each of the buildings with the needs of operational means, such as the simulations and training measures necessary for national civil protection agents. For example, firefighters are completely relegated to the licensing, obtaining of information, to the simulations, to the training necessary for high-risk buildings, and this being the competence, as well as access to information, as regards buildings of greater danger, referred exclusively to the National Civil Protection Authority. We do not realize this distance between the National Civil Protection Authority and the firefighters, who, in practice, will naturally have to deal with risk situations if they occur. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u263	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u264	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Machado, the reason why the need was really what was meant by us, that is to include within the decentralization package what we consider to be a risk that can be treated at the level of the municipality. But we also did it with all care and attention, because there is a transfer of responsibility and the financial package. This is planned, the cost/benefit study is done and we have transferred to the 483 000 € authorities of responsibility and 1, 082 million euros of revenue. This without talking about counter-ordinations that may eventually arise. So, we're just...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u265	Where is that written?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u266	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you not to enter into dialogue and to continue with your reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u267	We understand that the rates, yes, must be applied by their municipalities. The municipalities will have the power to decide. Why level I and not level II? Because the higher the level of risk, the greater the requirement. And it also needs to give the municipalities time to prepare their response capabilities. With regard to the fact that firemen stay away...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u268	He has already exceeded his time, so I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u269	Mr President, just to finish, I would say that, with regard to the removal of firefighters in the simulations, it is not true, since they are part of it. In all and any simulation of the National Civil Protection Authority, the first civil protection agent is firefighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u270	Mr José Manuel Carpinteira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: After approximately nine years on the entry into force of the anti-fire safety regime in Buildings, the Government took the appropriate initiative to present Bill No 94 / XIII, which we are discussing today in plenary. The aim of the amendments is essentially to adapt the diploma to the Framework Law on decentralization in so far as Article 26 provides for it. this framework law is intended to decentralize the municipalities of competence to assess projects and self-protection measures, carry out audits, inspections and supervision and the instruction and decision of the sanction procedures to buildings classified in the low risk category, even though the full implementation of the competences assigned to municipalities is dependent on the accreditation of municipal technicians by the National Civil Protection Authority. It should be noted that the amendments relating to the decentralisation of these matters were the subject of a favourable opinion of the National Association of Municipalities, including the distribution of the fines product. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill corrects inaccuracies detected, introduces some amendments in a set of articles, necessary to ensure greater legal effectiveness of standards, clarify concepts and proceed to some technical adjustments on time. On the other hand, an amendment is introduced, which in our view makes sense in the urban operations of all the typical uses of the reduced risk category: the application of a safety sheet. In an area as sensitive as the safety of people and goods, this bill obviously deserves our approval. In summary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we can point out that this diploma, presented by the government, simplifies, clarifies and is more demanding in particular by setting stricter requirements for those responsible for the preparation of safety projects and self-protection measures against fires in buildings and in enclosures classified as integrating the highest risk category, where infrastructures such as schools, hospitals or homes of the elderly are included. We recognize that, in addition to appropriate and competent legislation, it is necessary to effectively implement self-protection measures and public awareness measures, in particular on how to act in the event of fire in buildings. Education for the civil protection of the population and in the school environment is increasingly an imperative. That should also be the way forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u272	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor now, too, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legal regime for fire safety in buildings is a very important issue and indeed deserves all attention. Thus, for the CDS-PP, it is essential that a reform of the regime in force be preceded by a broad debate, extended to various entities and experts in this area. Now, in the explanatory statement of this diploma, the Government refers—and the Secretary of State has also mentioned here—that many and various relevant entities have been heard in this area, namely 13 entities, including the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the National Civil Engineering Laboratory, the Regional Services for Civil Protection of Azores and Madeira, among others. however, Mr. Secretary of State, at the initiative page, we find no opinion, contribution or document resulting from these consultations. And the question that I put here is this: are there? And, if there are, does the Government intend to refer such documents to this House? It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this lack of information from the Government has been a constant and it does not seem reasonable or admissible, especially with regard to the process of decentralization that this initiative depends on. As we all know, the Government's initiative on decentralization of competence for municipalities and initiatives on the same subject presented by parliamentary groups is still pending. The Government, with regard to this matter, intended, firstly, that this House should approve a framework law entirely to the dark, without the monitoring of studies, opinions or contributions of any entity. Then, realizing that the Assembly of the Republic would not approve a reform of this nature and importance to the dark, it referred to the various sectoral diplomas it was preparing, including the diploma concerning the legal regime of fire safety in buildings. Now, the bill we are discussing here today is exactly that diploma, with all the references, in particular to one law x, which is the law on decentralization of competences, which is not yet approved and, since it is not the government that decides the schedules and votes of this House, it is not yet known whether and when it will be effectively approved, as we do not know what its final text is. We thought that the Government had already realized that this House, in particular the CDS, does not have blank checks and that in such important matters as we are dealing with today, there is a need for a serious and extended debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said and repeat: the CDS has no doubt as to the fundamental mission that is carried out by the local authorities in the supply of quality public services to Portuguese, integrating the first and next line of support. however, I underline what many of the entities stated when they were heard in the Working Group — decentralization package, which was set up in the Commission responsible on this matter. And I quote: 'It cannot be done in half a dozen months what should have been done in 40 years'! The proposal for a law which we are discussing today, as well as all the sectoral diplomas relating to the transfer of competences, so that, when voted, all parties can do so in conscience and without pressure, in particular from the Government. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, we consider the present submission of this bill to this House as an extemporaneous one. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u274	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill, in addition to trying to correct inaccuracies and adjust the counter-ordering regime, raises a fundamental issue, from our point of view, which is that of the passage of powers regarding inspection and opinions on a set of buildings, with regard to the fire protection system, of the National Civil Protection Authority for municipalities. And this passage from the National Civil Protection Authority to the municipalities is a problem that is placed within the process of decentralization. This proposal for a law therefore essentially consists of taking a step towards the municipalization of competences of the central administration, which, in our view, is of concern, given that this is indeed a kind of municipality to penguins that the Government is seeking to promote, claiming that there is currently a proposal for a framework law on decentralization, but as has already been mentioned by several Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is under discussion, i.e. it does not really exist as an approved diploma. Therefore, the Government argues that it is necessary to move forward with the proposed municipalization law of this competence in particular, because there is a proposal for a decentralization law that might possibly provide for this measure, it seems to have no real meaning. from our point of view, this bill should first be accompanied by a report on the conditions of the 308 municipalities in our country to integrate and assimilate this competence of high technical complexity and of great responsibility, as regards the safety of people and buildings. Does the Government know, as regards the various municipalities in our country, which have technicians duly accredited by the competent authority to perform this function? We don't know. They note that more than 70% of our municipalities have less than 30,000 inhabitants, they are small municipalities. Do all municipalities have technical skills to perform these functions? And what is the financial impact of this measure in terms of municipal budgets? What is the financial impact for municipalities to conform to this law if it is approved? None of this is known to the House and would therefore make every sense that this bill was actually part of the debate on decentralization. More: what guarantees can the Government provide that it will prevent the outsourcing of these functions, the subcontracting to the private of these tasks linked to an important function, in terms of the safety of the population and buildings? What guarantees can it provide to prevent the municipalization of this competence from effectively transforming itself into opening up and promoting a new business now linked to this service? Look, there's...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u276	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u277	I conclude now, Mr President. As I was saying, notice that there are three, five million buildings in our country, according to recent reports, 54% of which have to be rehabilitated in the coming years. In fact, there is a great deal of business expectations on this subject and therefore we need to have guarantees as to the effective consequences of decentralization and the municipalization of these functions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u278	To conclude the debate, Mr Antonio Topa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative — Bill No 94 / XIII — integrates the 21 draft decentralisation by transfer of competences to the local authorities which the Government has submitted to Parliament, all subject to the approval of Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which fell to 11. the Commission without a vote is in the process of re-assessing in general and establishing the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities. With regard to this legal regime of fire safety in buildings, we are approving, or we are going to try to approve, something which, first of all, is 'putting the car in front of the woods'. If we had approved Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which defines the regime for the transfer of competences to the authorities, of course we were not passing an empty check here, as Mr Castello-Branco says. So, essentially, I prefer to talk about aspects related to decentralization, because this document is actually technical, it is a document that does not give much discussion, in technical aspects. I would rather discuss the political aspects of decentralization and say that the government has been talking about the importance of decentralization for two years, it took 14 months to present its proposal and to do so on the basis of the elections. He insisted on classifying his proposal as the central point and starting point for discussion when the only proposals that Parliament generally approved were those of the PSD and the CDS. in fact, of all the initiatives presented, only the CDS-PP and PSD submitted the vote on their proposals, of their authorship, adopted by a majority. The other left-wing political forces and the Government preferred to take refuge in the comfortable and comfortable decline of their initiatives to the competent parliamentary committee without a vote. It is recalled that in this Parliament, PSD was the first political force to place the theme of decentralization on the parliamentary agenda. We presented concrete proposals during the discussion of the National Reform and State Budget Programme for 2017 and were both led by the majority supporting the Government. But we did not give up and, at the end of last January, we presented a new legislative package on decentralization to help solve the problems of the authorities, the central administration and, above all, to serve Portugal and the Portuguese. It is important to note that the PS has inexplicably denied the establishment of a possible committee offering the conditions for the legislative process to be done in a cross-sectional, plural, technically in-depth and in-use 90 days. Apart from the Assembly of the Republic and the Members alone and in the comfort of the cabinets, others outside the debate on the decentralization package, the decentralisation initiative continues to be approved. The Minister of Internal Administration has moved forward with changes to the legal regime of the municipal police in Lisbon and Porto ; the Minister of Health has transferred competence to the authorities; as regards the indication of an executive administrator in general health facilities, the Minister of the Environment has advanced with the municipalisation of Carris ; the Minister of the Environment has legislate on the responsibilities of the authorities in the management of protected areas without financial counterparts and many other situations which have been approved by decree and which have a great deal to do with decentralization of competence. They all go beyond Eduardo Cabrito, Deputy Minister, who is committed to defending the Government's proposal for the adoption of a framework law on the transfer of competence to local authorities. The government, no matter how much you say otherwise...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u280	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u281	Mr. President, I conclude now. The Government does not have a strategy, it has several strategies, as many of the agendas of each minister, which act in a far-reaching and far-reaching manner from the discussion that is under way in Parliament. In conclusion, I am referring to the fact that the PSD knows the ability to do good to the local authorities, being in favour of the process of decentralization through laws approved by Parliament, with broad consensus due to its importance to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u282	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u283	We want to participate so that these objectives can be achieved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u284	Mrs. Members, we therefore conclude the discussion, in general, of the proposed law No 94/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco, who will account for several ads you have to offer them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u285	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that Bill No. 601 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens supervisory obligations by Banco de Portugal and transparency in conducting audits to credit institutions and financial corporations ( thirty-sixth amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies) ( PCP ) was withdrawn by its authors. They have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to the projects of lein.o 602 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Define which acts are the own acts of veterinary physicians ( PAN ), 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, amending the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( NAP ), 604 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a maximum price system in the gas sector marketed in bottle or channelled, butane or propane(NAP), 605 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Annex I to Decree-Law No 114 / 2014 of 21 July laying down the procedures necessary for the implementation of the detailed billing system provided for in Law No 12 / 2014 of 6 March 2014 which made the second amendment to Decree-Law No 194 / 2009 of 20 August in respect of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban waste management (NAP) and 606 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the transmission of business or establishment ( PS ). The draft resolutions Nos 1047 / XIII ( 2 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote investment in rail and road infrastructure with a view to improving the mobility of citizens, territorial cohesion, competitiveness of enterprises and environmental sustainability ( CDS-PP ), 1048 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the control of the bottled gas market in order to reduce the difference between the reference price and the average selling price to the public ( CDS-PP ), 1049 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish, by city hall, the burning areas in large forest fires ( CDS-PP ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 1050 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Rejects the approval for ratification of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ), 1051 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommendation to the Government on the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ( PETI 3 + ) ( PSD ), 1052 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Commercial Agreement — CETA ( European Union-Canada ) ( BE ), 1053 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Agreement on Economic and Trade between the European Union and Canada ( CETA) ( PAN), 1054 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that, in conjunction with and with the involvement of the city of Braga, ensure the preservation, requalification and recovery of the collection of Santa Maria Madalena or of the converts, in Braga ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1055 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an effective way of disseminating water quality data to consumers ( CDS-PP ) and 1059 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Angola ( President of the HR ). Finally, Parliamentary opinion No 45/ XIII ( 2 ) was added to the Bureau. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 of 10 August, which regulates the transfer to the General Deposit Box, IP, of the financial charge with the pension supplements of Carris workers ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-18.u286	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. It remains to be borne in mind to the honourable Members. Members of the agenda for tomorrow. Our work will start at 3 p.m. with the joint assessment, in general, of Bill No 75 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person and of the projects of lein.o 242 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recognizes the right to gender self-determination ( BE) and 317 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the right to gender self-determination ( PAN ). A second point is followed, where the projects of lein. 593 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Establishs the functional segregation of the resolution authority within the Banco de Portugal ( PSD ), 594 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 228/2000 of 23 September establishing the National Council of Financial Supervisors ( PSD ), 595 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens the transparency and incompatibilities and impediments of Banco de Portugal's administrators and leaders ( PSD ), 596 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August approving the framework law of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors ( PSD ) and 597 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Forty-fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December establishing the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ( PSD ), together with draft resolution No 1035 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the financial supervisory mechanisms of the European Union and the completion of the banking union ( PSD ). In general, the projects of lein.o 525 / XIII ( 2 ) will also be appreciated together. ( a ) — Defines the acts of veterinary physicians ( PS ) and 602 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Define which acts are the own acts of veterinary physicians ( PAN ). That's how we get to the end of our work. I wish you a rest of the afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 45 minutes.]]
