ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The agenda for today is filled by a political debate, by marking the PSD, on the security, protection and assistance of people during the tragic fire of Pedrogão Grande. The opening of the debate is for the PSD Parliamentary Group and for this reason Mrs Teresa Morais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tragedy in which the country was plunged 13 days ago was the biggest and most horrible one could ever imagine. Even in a country struck by fire decades ago it was unthinkable that such misfortune could happen, not because fires are unpredictable in Portugal, on the contrary, but because nobody would happen that their consequences could achieve such a dramatic dimension. With a wide range of burned territory, what afflicts a country still in mourning is having to bury more than 60 dead, have hospitalized more than 200 wounded and have not yet perceived as such misfortune happened. Sixty-four dead in the most horrendous way you can conceive, incarcerated in cars, caught in fire at home, on the streets, in an unequal fight against the flames they tried to escape. in the first moments of that Saturday when the tragedy began, stupidity came. How could such a calamity be happening? How could it be that so many people were dying, without realizing how or why? Time was passing and horror numbers multiplied without explanation. The country accompanied the tragedy in a state of shock, in a mixture of misunderstanding, revolt, impotence and deep sadness. There were those who did not have time for so much, because the situation required immediate action: firemen, valiant men and women, fighting for the lives of others, security forces, community institutions immediately on the ground responded as they could to those who could escape that hell and needed everything. [[PSD applause.]] However, there was a request for help that was not coming, begging for help that often never arrived. There have been 13 days about the beginning of the greatest national tragedy we have suffered, in the times when memory can take us, but we still do not know why. The mourning has not ended, nor will it end in the coming years, but the time has come for why, to which no one has yet given a full answer. Why didn't you get a country, with so many years of fire fighting experience, prevent this biggest misfortune? Why has it not been given help to so many people who desperately asked for it? Why was it not cut off in good time a road leading to martyrdom? Why was there, according to the news and confirmed by the professional association of the GNR, at the territorial post of Pedrogão Grande, three military at the time when the fire broke out, two in a brigade and one in the post? It is confirmed that it was for lack of means, already declared by this Association, that there was no capacity to cut and control the national road No. 236.1, where have 47 people died carbonized? What time did these people die? How many hours have you spent since the start of the fire? And the remaining 17 who died in that county? Where and under what circumstances? Why, more than 24 hours ago about the start of the fire, an Alvaiázere author asks for help because he has a fiery parish, with the need for evacuation of populations, and they answer that there are no means available, when officially no one recognized this lack and even refused the help of Galician firefighters, allegedly because the excess of volunteerism was harmful? Why were not the five firefighters quickly rescued as a result of a frontal shock between his car and a civilian car fleeing to the fire, having, in the case of fireman Gonçalo Conceição, spent more than four hours from the moment of the accident until his entry into Coimbra Hospital, where he ended up dying? Why did the fireman Rui Rosinha enter the Prelate Hospital in the Port at 6:02 a.m. 10 hours after the accident where he came from with severe burns? Where did those responsible for help go for 10 hours with a man burned in agony? Why does no one inform the country of the state of health of three men and a woman, firefighters of Castanheira de Pera, who, according to their corporate colleagues, are in a critical state? How do you explain that after a fire has been given as controlled, the number of injuries has continued to rise, exceeding 200? Where did those wounded come from? What councils? What were you scrubbing about? What support was made available by the State in the first days of the fire, when and to whom, if so many people have already told so many people that it literally remained handed over to themselves? The first questions the PSD asked immediately on Monday, 19th, in the morning, at the meeting that requested the National Civil Protection Authority. in this meeting it was evident that there was no answer to the basic questions asked and the comment we then made was only this: clearly, there were still no technical answers to the questions that lacked them. But in the meantime, 10 days passed over this meeting and 13 about the tragedy that crushed an entire nation, but enlightening answers did not arrive. What has been known in the meantime, with reports dealing with reports on the same subject, does not clarify the country about the truth that we need to know. on the contrary, it installs the confusion, in a strategy of pass-in and deresponsibility, which cannot continue. It is because 13 days have passed on such misfortune and nothing has really been made clear that we are here today, in a debate marked by the Social Democratic Party, which thus aims to make it clear that it will not forget everything that has happened. We will not fail to ask all the questions and demand all the answers, whether technical or political, which are required to clarify everything that has happened. We know others have. The government has also announced the questions it is asking. The difference is that Members should ask, question, ask for clarification, give a voice to those who are outside it, but it is the government that protects or should protect the entities involved, which is the obligation to respond. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u3	It is not enough to attend a procession of officials walking through ash-covered territories, announcing delays and measures that are not known when they arrive. We want detailed and enlightening answers and we will insist on them until we get them. A finding is, however, already certain, and to recognize what the country already knows and has seen enough: the state has failed! It failed dramatically when people needed him most and the hurt nation has the right to know why. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u4	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the debate. Mrs Teresa Morais has four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u5	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u6	All right, Mrs. Deputy. For a first request for clarification, Mr Jorge Lacão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when yesterday's PSD leader Pedro Passos Coelho questioned Mr. Prime Minister about the need for all terms of responsibility, I was then able to say that we need to have a sense of responsibility and scruple, scruple that does not allow us to echo statements without sufficient grounds. Recently we heard Mrs Teresa Morais say that three GNR agents were on the ground. Yesterday, the Minister of Internal Administration answered the same question in the committee to Mrs Deputy, saying that, at the critical time, and before him, there were 31 GNR agents on the ground. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] It is indeed a lack of scruple, Mrs Teresa Morais. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It's not enough to be elected by a majority!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u8	But it is necessary for the PSD to understand itself, because it has just entered into the Bureau a bill which is signed by broad consensus of the House which has as its basis — and I can not fail to read — the following: "It is up to Parliament to create the conditions for the clarifications due to be obtained in a committed, independent and credible manner. And for this to happen, the responses that urgently need to result from a priority technical and specialized investigation, capable of weighing the various dimensions of the problems but whose composition must necessarily be removed from any hierarchical or subordinate duty, personal or functional, vis-à-vis the various instances of political power. (...) We firmly believe that an independent technical committee constituted by these criteria of technical speciality and political and administrative exemption is the most suitable way..." — I repeat, it is the most appropriate way — «...to find the urgent and essential answers that the Portuguese ask their Members for ». This text, Mrs Deputy, is signed by my bench leader, is also subscribed by the leader of your bench and the spirit of this text is completely contrary to the speech that Mrs Deputy has just done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all, what is the PSD we're dealing with? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u9	The PSD of the speech of Mrs Teresa Morais or the PSD who came to tell us that there is a need for responsibility? Madam Member, answer us: what is the identity crisis that goes on your bench, because we want responsibility, we do not want leviancy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u10	There's got to be a lot of cans!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u11	To make requests for clarification, Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Teresa Morais, the CFP believes that it is in fact a priority to make sure of everything that has happened with regard to these fires, not only with regard to the fire fighting conditions, but also with regard to the state in which the area that has ended was burned, in terms of forest planning and compliance with the prevention rules. We also believe that there is a priority to respond in support of victims and in strengthening measures to prevent and combat fires. Moreover, we have already initiated the necessary procedures for this legislative process to happen quickly and we hope that, despite the vote that has been taken in the Committee on Agriculture even now has not been unanimous, there is no obstacle to the fact that the Assembly of the Republic can implement a legislative measure not only to support victims but also to strengthen measures to prevent and combat fires. Mrs Teresa Morais, you have just made a set of considerations on which I will not strictly say anything about your intentions and the appreciation that the PSD is doing about what happened, because I believe that much of the considerations that Mrs Tribune has made presupposes conclusions regarding a finding that is not done and, therefore, I will strictly say nothing about it. from the PCP bench, the last thing the honourable Member will attend is to use logics of pass-backs and allocation of political responsibilities without being determined whatever it is. So I won't strictly say anything about it. I will say, yes, that there are contradictory elements that result from answers that have been given and that have to be ascertained. Yesterday and yesterday we had the opportunity to say that we expect the government to clarify the data and contradictory responses. Mrs Teresa Morais, I would like to ask you whether, following the intervention you have made, you will or will not recognize the error of the party's government options to which you belong and the CDS, which have reduced the operational capacity of the GNR in relation to its barracks and its effective ones; the error of your options, for example, in the extinction of fragesias, which are an essential structure for informing and responding to populations in times of calamity. I'd like to know if the honourable Member will or will not take the mistake... [[Well remembered!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u13	Looks like the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen just want to see the problem that happened in that area. But these are problems all over the country and all over the country. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't just look at the tree, see the rest of the forest! [[PCP applause.]] As Mrs Teresa Morais said, I would like to know whether you are going to take the mistake of your government's options, which has reduced the ability to respond to nearby health services, especially in health centres. And I would like you to tell me whether you are willing or not to identify the responsibilities where they are, in the options of successive governments that have contributed to the depopulation and abandonment of the rural world, whether you are willing or not to identify the responsibilities where they are, in the choices of successive governments that have contributed to the depopulation and abandonment of the rural world. [[PCP applause.]] ... not only with the measures I have already mentioned but also with the difficulties that have been creating the development of productive activities in these territories. It is, Mrs Teresa Morais, that there can be no doctors and nurses where there are no users, that there can be no schools where there are no children, that there can be no social security services where there is no population, or that there can be no security services and forces where the population is scarce is contributing to this abandonment of the rural world that is at the root of this tragedy and the scale of the catastrophe that happened. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] In conclusion, Mrs Teresa Morais, I would like to ask you a number of questions which have to do with a point which you have not mentioned at one point in your speech, but which, for us, is an essential aspect of this debate and which has to do with the planning of forests and the enforcement of the rules of prevention and of everything that is already in the law on forest fire prevention, but which, in particular, needs measures that need to be taken and of investment that need to be made. Does the PSD recognise today that you made a mistake when you did not have the financial resources available to make the forest register? [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] The PSD recognises today that it was wrong when it classified as "state fats" the officials and technicians of the State who withdrew from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forest Services, the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature and Forests) and who were still lacking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u14	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. It's been over 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u15	I conclude, Mr. President. Does the PSD recognise today that it was wrong when, in the government, it removed EUR 200 million from the PRODER(Rural Development Programme) in the forest area, arguing that it was money that had not been used, but without doing anything to make use of it? Does the PSD recognize today that you made a mistake when you liberalized the eucalyptus plantation?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u16	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u17	I conclude, Mr. President. It is that these are materials that have to do with a fundamental aspect of the protection of populations,... [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] ... that have to do with the management of the forest and the prevention of fires. The honourable Member said nothing strictly about this, but we still liked to hear the PSD say something about this central aspect. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u18	I recall that this idea of, in the requests for clarification, leaving more than 2 minutes, but not more than 4 minutes was also proposed by the CFP Parliamentary Group. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u19	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Morais, we are today aware that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho considers that much of the territory does not have eucalyptus. We have learned that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho understands that most of the Portuguese forest is not eucalyptus and, more importantly, that the eucalyptus is what burns less and that is what, when it burns, is more easily extinguished. Of course, I am not going to comment on these considerations, nor am I even going to make any judgment of value on these considerations woven yesterday in Vila Nova de Gaia by Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, but it seems to me that the reason why the PSD/CDS government is leading to the liberalisation of the eucalyptus in our country is thus explained. Then I said yesterday, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, that the Government has an agreement with the Greens Ecological Party and that the forest cannot have eucalyptus because the Greens are against the eucalyptus. Now, I would like to say, Madam Member, that this agreement or, better, this joint position which the Greens have established with the Socialist Party is public and is not from now on. And in fact, in this joint position, there is exactly a commitment to halt the expansion of the eucalyptus area. And it appears further, Mrs. Deputy. It is also necessary to increase the production of forest rows as areas of surrogate and assembling. And it is in this sense that there have been discussions that the Greens Ecological Party has established with the Government, with the purpose of halting the expansion of the area of the eucalyptus, which happens, of course, by the repeal of the law, approved by the PSD and the CDS, which has completely liberalized the eucalyptus in our country. We therefore intend to create a new regime, and that is why we are working on it. It is that, unlike the PSD, The Greens consider that our forest is flooded with eucalyptus. Unlike the PSD, the Greens consider that the eucalyptus has a different behavior, for worse, of any other species, when we talk about the progression of forest fires. Unlike the PSD, the Greens believe that it is necessary to reverse the trend towards continuous monoculture forestry of highly combustible and fast-growing species. Unlike the PSD, the Greens consider that what is required is a fight against the forest dictatorship that is being imposed by the large forest line industry. And if the government maintains today the purpose of halting the expansion of the eucalyptus area is because this government understands that the commitments made are to take seriously, and the Greens will do everything to make it so. on our part, we continue to strive for solutions to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus, which is, in our view, an imperative, especially after the PSD/CDS government has fully liberalized the eucalyptus. But, Mrs Teresa Morais, of course, I will not ask you whether I also share the reading that Mr Pedro Passos Coelho makes that much of our territory does not have eucalyptus, that most of the Portuguese forest is not eucalyptus and, above all, that the eucalyptus is the least burned and, when it burns, what is wiped out more easily. I will not ask you this, because I am afraid that you will be obliged to say that you agree. however, I would like you to tell us, even because the best fight when we talk about forest fires is prevention, in what way does the Greens' proposal today to stop the expansion of eucalyptus in our country. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u20	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u21	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Morais, the PSD, in this regard, has « days ». Yesterday, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho called here — and we remember — to have a thorough, thorough explanation of all the circumstances surrounding this immense tragedy that beset the country. Today, the honourable Member is asking for answers already — replies that are late, she says — and must therefore be something instantaneous. Now, this shows how the PSD is deeply out of sight, in this as in so many other matters. For this afternoon the PSD has launched a debate on these tragic fires that have occurred in recent days. Madam Member, to introduce this debate without speaking, only once, on the issue of forest planning shows exactly what the PSD wants to discuss here and what the PSD does not want, at all, to be discussed here this afternoon. But even more: Mrs Teresa Morais came to talk about the urgency of the answers. This is a feeling that certainly unites us all and all in this House — it can only be! But one thing is to say this, and another thing, Mrs Teresa Morais, is to come and ask for answers when you know that many of these answers are not available right now. Therefore, this is a pure political game of exploitation of people's will, of having an answer, which is currently not available. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Elza Pais.]] But Mrs Teresa Morais says that the time has come for « why». You're absolutely right, Mrs. Deputy. And I just wanted to confront her with the truth of her statement. On 4 April 2015, the PSD Government / CDS concluded the negotiation of a review of the contract with the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ) which guarantees the State a price reduction of about EUR 25 million. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] This renegotiation was confirmed in the general meeting of SIRESP society a week later. And confirmation of this matter by the PSD/CDS Government has never been made. It was only in December 2015 that the confirmation of this cost reduction for the State at EUR 25 million was made, and already by the current government. You are right, Mrs Teresa Morais : the time has come for « why». Please explain, Mrs Deputy, why this has happened. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u22	To answer the questions put, Mrs Teresa Morais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u23	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Government here and start by answering the question put by Mr Jorge Lacão. Mr President, I do not accept any accusations of irresponsibility. You can do them at ease, because I do not accept them. And for a very simple reason: what we are doing here is what people want to do,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u24	...is asking for clarifications about what happened in a country that is perplexed. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] We have not been elected to make with the Socialist Party or any other party any covenant of silence. We've been elected to ask the questions that citizens out there are asking... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u25	...and for which they want an answer, which the government has not yet given. [[PSD applause.]] And let me tell you that you did — and you did slightly — an accusation of a lack of seriousness in relation to a question I would have asked the Minister yesterday. The honourable Member will review the parliamentary hearing and you will see that I did not ask any questions yesterday to the Minister about how many effective they were at the Pedrogon GNR position. He's stuck! Go and review the hearing, I didn't ask you that question! The Minister is here, the Secretary of State was also there and you know perfectly well that I asked three questions and that none of them was that. [[PS protests.]] But the honourable Member has the statements by the GNR's professional association that there were three military in the post at the time the fire started. Therefore, Mr Deputy will now tell the government that he understands the GNR. however, as this debate was marked to discuss concrete situations that we had concrete knowledge, I will tell you one thing: on Sunday, morning, reinforcements were being received in the GNR of Pedrogão. Now, it was me who pointed out the way to a GNR patrol that came to make reinforcements, because she did not know where the Pedrogon GNR's territorial position was. That is what happened, Mr President. What I asked today did not ask yesterday, and you have to have an answer because it is the GNR's own professional association that says so. If the government and the GNR do not understand each other, the problem is not mine.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u26	It's the GNR that's grounded!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u27	Therefore, Mr President, before you accuse other people of lack of seriousness and irresponsibility, please pay attention to what you say.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u28	Look at the mirror, Mr!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u29	Then, Mr. Jorge Lacão, there is another issue that is fundamental to your question and to which I am not going to flee, which is the supposed contradiction between the position assumed by the PSD in yesterday's debate and the position taken today. There is no contradiction! I can't ignore any — I can bring Mr José Manuel Pureza ahead of me. And why? Because there are fundamental questions, whose clarification must be made in a technical perspective, with independent experts, and which can of course only be answered when this work is produced. But there are other questions, Mr President, which must not, nor can they, wait for the committee, nor for the results of any inquiry. And I give you an example: you need a committee to know why a wounded fireman walked, for 10 hours, lost, don't you know where, until he gets to Prelada Hospital in Porto? Oh, my God! Do you need that? [[PCP protests.]] Why don't you ask INEM why it took 10 hours to take a fireman to the hospital? [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u30	Mrs Teresa Morais, I am sorry to interrupt you, but I must say the following: I believe that, either by virtue of what it is, or it must be, a parliamentary debate, or by virtue of what is the nature of the issue that brings us here today, it is worth listening with respect to the people who speak, regardless of the opinions they have and the parliamentary group to which they belong. So, I was asking the ladies. Members who listened to Mrs Teresa Morais with the same respect as the other parliamentary groups all heard the previous speakers. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Jorge Lacão, I will finish my answer to the question you have raised, saying the following: there are questions and questions, there are answers and answers. There are questions that require technical deepening, which is incompatible with the time we are; there are questions that should have been answered for a long time, and one of them is precisely that which I said: why did people who were injured wander around the country for 10 hours until they reached a hospital? [[Protests of BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u32	It's true, it is! We heard from the family!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u33	And for those questions we don't need more time, we need answers! Why do we know nothing about the health of these people? If the hospitalized person were a politician, he was an actor, he was a footballer, we would have briefings about his health every day. We have four gunmen injured and no one in the country knows what state they're in. It's unbelievable, it's unbelievable! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u34	And we have over 200 wounded!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u35	Mr. João Oliveira, I will reply briefly to your question, but I cannot help but say the following: the smoothness with which the CFP views this issue — moreover, in common with the Left Block — only allows a strategy of de-responsibility, I repeat, de-responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u36	It's not soft, it's sobriety! Sovereignty!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u37	He asked if we did not assume responsibility for acts committed during the time we were in the government. Mr President, at that time we have assumed all the responsibilities for the acts we have practiced; now is the time for this government to assume its own, which has not yet done so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u38	And also those who support the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u39	So at every moment, we are not all responsible for everything. At every moment and in every legislature there is a government that responds to its actions and failures. We respond in our time, this government will respond in its time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u40	Mr President, on the questions that have also been asked by Mr José Luís Ferreira about the forestry system, it is clear that we are not indifferent, but that is not the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u41	It's only tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u42	You have a debate on this subject tomorrow. What is more, you can even anticipate that you have the problem solved, because you have already arranged a guilty man, the culprit is the eucalyptus. [[Protests from The Greens and the PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Therefore, Mr President, in your debate tomorrow, you will discuss the question of the eucalyptus, but that is not the debate we are having here today. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] And I insist on this question: this debate serves to ask here today the questions that the Portuguese ask us out there and to which they demand answers. These Portuguese elected us to ask the questions that the honourable Members have to ask and to ask the Government to answer them. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] It remains for the Government to choose between responding and waiting, between responding and inventing, between responding and asking for more reports that contradict each other, is the choice of the government. Ours is this one and they won't silence us, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u43	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u44	They won't silence us! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u45	Mrs. Members, I ask the House, all parliamentary groups, whether or not they support the speaker, who have the restraint that the circumstance requires. I call on all parliamentary groups. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Madam Member, I said 'all parliamentary groups', all of them! Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I had the opportunity yesterday to say, in hearing in 1. the Commission, the Government is currently making every effort to ensure that the populations affected by this tragedy can resume their lives as normal as possible and, in all these matters, of course, can address questions to my government colleagues. with regard to the Ministry of Internal Administration, I reaffirm what I said yesterday: of course, we are collecting, analysing deeply, crossing data so that we may have some answers and it would be absolutely irresponsible for me to draw conclusions when we still have no data to allow us to answer all these questions. Madam Member, we must have answers and explanations to all these questions, we must do so to the Portuguese, but we must, first of all, have answers and explanations to those victims. For this reason, so that there will be no accusations of partial, partial answers, we support, from the first hour, the establishment of a technical committee which can give us many answers, all the answers to the many questions that we all have and which I, first of all, as a citizen, would also like to see clarified. These answers are multiple and until today I am only one sure:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u47	Just one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u48	...what happened in Pedrogão Grande was, in fact, a great fire. But in that fire there was something abnormal that caused, in 2 hours, there to be an absolutely abnormal spread of fire outbreaks everywhere and that reached in a very special way a small space in that huge area, which was that fire. In fact, if you see satellite images, you'll understand perfectly how that fire was and how the one on Gois' side behaved, in a completely different way. Another thing I also know is that the first alert was soon mobilized not only the three fire companies in that area but also a team of initial helicopter attacks and that two hours later 167 operational, 48 vehicles and 2 air vehicles had been activated. Despite this initial attack, there was something that, from 19 hours ago — according to what I am told — caused an absolutely abnormal spread of that fire to exist. But what was this phenomenon? The IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) said that there was a downburst and that it will present a report to explain what that is. What I heard on the ground from very experienced professionals who were there, who lived that situation, who are from that area, of all of them, was that they had never seen anything like this, was a kind of fire tsunami, if we want — these are my words. We must also realize that on that day, the country had more than 150 fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u49	That's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u50	It's not normal on one day of that phase. You know perfectly well that it is not normal. [[Protests by PSD Members and the CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] In any case, all of this must be clarified, all of these questions must be answered, in addition to being set up an independent technical committee, with which, of course, we will have all cooperation, without any kind of reservation, providing all, but all, the elements we have in our possession—all! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot draw hasty conclusions about the statement that A makes to that media, or the statement that B makes, or the statement that C makes. This is not a serious way to work. We need time, time to collect reliable information, but it is not just to collect information, we have to analyze, we have to confirm — we have to confirm. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I have already reiterated the full availability of all the services that you have provided to cooperate, without any mental reservation, with the greatest transparency, in the work of this committee, which is, in my view, the only entity that can, impartially, transparently and rigorously, answer all those questions that we want to see answered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u51	Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, the Bureau registered six Mrs. Members to request clarification and has the indication that they intend to respond in groups of three. The first group of requests for clarification consists of members of the Left Block, the PCP and the Green Party. Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u52	Mr President, the Minister of Internal Administration, yesterday in hearing, explained that the means of combating fires take their time to reach the operating venues and theatres, following a question asked by the PSD Parliamentary Group. We still do not have teletransport, so it is understandable that the means take their time to get to the places. But what does the government intend to change immediately, with regard to fire fighting means, so that the response is faster and more effective? Do you not think, Madam Minister, that it is the duty of the State to ensure the existence of firefighter bodies and also security forces in properly sized, equipped and appropriate teams, a little across the country, which is something that does not happen, and we all know that, especially in risk areas? Mrs. Minister, do you not think that the security and protection of the population are the responsibility of the State? What's going to be different next time? Mr Minister, we already know that information, studies, evaluations, expertise has been requested by the government and that all efforts are being made to ascertain what really happened in the fires of Pedrogão Grande and Figueiró dos Vinhos — what happened, because it happened and what consequences this has had in the operations of fighting fires and protecting populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u53	It's different, the Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u54	We know that the Assembly of the Republic is also doing what it has to do, in fact, that it is an example of the draft law for the creation of the independent technical committee. But the questions that are being asked are, in fact, those that all Portuguese and all Portuguese want and need to see answered at this time: what will be different from here forward? What's going to be different now? It is that, as long as the most detailed answers arrive and all this information fails, the fires are at stake, fires do not meet deadlines, and we know that we are going to enter a time of quite aggressive fires, as it has indeed been every year. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] So what is the government doing to make the fire fight faster, faster, more effective, above all, and to protect populations more effective? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u55	Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor now to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister of Internal Administration, before addressing the request for clarification, I would like to give some clarifications and, in some way, answer the PSD Parliamentary Group and Mrs Teresa Morais. It is important, in this debate, not to confuse softness with sobriety, rigour and seriousness in dealing with matters. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u57	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP will not align itself with the degrading show the PSD gave about this matter. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] [[PSD protests.]] We do not align ourselves with the degrading show given here by the PSD Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u58	Who saw them and who saw them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u59	Mr. Minister, yesterday at the meeting of 1. the Commission, we have had occasion to place to it the concerns that the CFP has about civil protection and the need to strengthen civil protection mechanisms, the degradation of the means we have been watching and the need to review the law on firefighter financing. We have also had the opportunity to question the operation of the SIRESP, a PPP (public-private partnership) which was born cake and which has not yet been addressed, with several failures, with « grey areas », also within the country, in the most rural areas, where this communication system is also needed. Therefore, there is a need to answer a number of questions that we have put to you, Minister. What do you intend to do in terms of civil protection, strengthening the means of addressing populations, in a time of fires that are beginning? With regard to SIRESP, Mrs Minister, the question we have left to you is whether the Government is immediately considering the lifting of existing solutions, both with firefighters and with the Armed Forces, for communications systems that fill the failures of SIRESP. In other words, if the scenario that we have seen happens again, I wonder whether redundancy is actually being considered so as not to happen again — that is, at the immediate level. Secondly, in the medium term, is it whether or not it is considering measures to ensure that the State has a communication system itself—managed by itself and not by private— and effective, with full coverage and essentially compassion to operate in all scenarios, in particular in the most difficult scenarios of calamity, which will exist in our country over time? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u60	You have the floor, for the last request for clarification of this round, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, in response to the tragedy that has taken place against us and in terms of priorities, the Greens consider that, immediately and without delay, it is interested in lifting the damage caused by the tragedy and ensuring the availability of all necessary means to support the families of the victims and also those who have lost their property. Then it is important to collect all possible information, not only to establish responsibilities — if any — but also to see what has failed during the fight against fire, so that we can learn from mistakes and seek to correct them in the future, preventing these tragedies from repeating themselves. On the collection of information, the Greens reaffirm what they said at the Conference of Leaders about the establishment of an independent technical committee: we believe that the competence to ascertain the facts still belongs to the government. It is the government that is responsible for this. however, despite having doubts and serious reservations about priority and even the usefulness and contributions of this committee, it will not be because of the Greens that committee will not be created. That is what we said at the Conference of Leaders, and that is what we continue to say. In addition to the collection and collection of information that is necessary, it is also time to begin to look at our forest as a strategic sector, which calls us, from the outset, for a reflection on the measures necessary to have a sustainable forest. We are talking, for example, about land planning, forestry planning, combating desertification in the rural world, valuing our agriculture and the need to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus, creating incentives for owners to proceed to plantations of native species. Mr.Minister, however, we have to learn from what happened last week, until summer is still beginning and it is necessary, first of all, to do everything to prevent these tragedies from happening again. We have had several factors that have come together and that have created what we can call an "extraordinary phenomenon" — we know that — but there have also been failures of the SIRESP, which are, in fact, assumed, particularly with regard to mobile communications. What we consider interesting to know today is what measures the Government is taking or what it is considering, immediately, to prevent these situations from happening again in the future, in particular with regard to the mobile antennas of the system. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u62	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u63	Mr. President, Mr. Mr. Sandra Cunha, Jorge Machado and José Luís Ferreira asked more or less the same set of questions. As for what is immediately done, we have already increased the reinforcement groups in about 750 operational, which are pre-positioned, in the most critical areas. Of course we have no chance to guess whether it is here or there that we are going to have a focus on fire, but in the areas identified as the most critical of susceptibility of this phenomenon we have already made a pre-positioning of reinforcement groups, which will support combatants who are 'locally competent', let us call it so. We have also strengthened monitoring actions. Finally, in relation to the SIRESP network and its possible impact when, perhaps, we enter into local mode of operation and the redundancy that exists in the fire department network itself and the ANPC (National Civil Protection Authority), we currently have the two operational mobile towers, we have made the direct award to operationalize the two mobile antennas that had been acquired but that were not equipped with a satellite connection system. The information I have is that within 15 days they will already be equipped with this system and we will preposition them throughout the national territory to cover the various areas, so that the travel period will be shortened, if it is necessary to activate this redundancy. So these are the steps we took right away and we are continuing. I now ask the President to allow Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration to supplement my information and also for Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health to answer, in particular, a question which has been raised about the fireman who has been without assistance for several hours, which I believe we must all be clear about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u64	There is nothing to be denied to the Minister's request, so I will give the floor, firstly, to the Secretary of State of the Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u65	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to complement what the Minister has said but respond to something Mrs Teresa Morais has said and has touched me. We're worried about firefighters, we know about their state of health, we follow... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u66	So give us information!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u67	Yes, yes, I give it to you, Mrs. Teresa Morais. I say this—and Mrs. Deputy doesn't hurt me—because I visit all the firemen, all the operations that are hospitalized, I do...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u68	Then tell me how they are. We want to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u69	If you'll excuse me, I'll talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u70	Excuse me, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u71	Mrs Filipa Rodrigues — and you can take note, please — is at the University of Coimbra Hospital and is in a stable state. Mr. Fernando Gomes Tomé is at the Hospital de Santa Maria and, fortunately, his state is evolving favourably. The firefighter Rui Antunes Rosinha, who was at Prelate Hospital with a very reserved prognosis, was transferred at this time and was left with only reserved prognosis. Mr. Bomber Fernando Lopes Tome is at Santa Maria Hospital with a prognosis reserved. This is the situation of our firefighters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u72	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u73	To what effect, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u74	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u75	Madam Member, can you wait for the end of the speech of the Under-Secretary of State and Health?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u76	I can, of course, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u77	Mr. Secretary of State, then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u78	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I would like to highlight the role of INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) and its professionals. Since the beginning, our disaster plan has been placed on the ground, in permanence, about 25 means, in which we have included the most differentiated means: three medical emergency helicopters, four emergency medical vehicles and resuscitation (VMER ) and about 60 professionals. The whole plan that had been tested very recently, on the occasion of the Pope's visit, was activated so that it all worked in an articulated manner with primary health care and hospital care. in hospitals, the issues of intensive care and burning beds were evaluated, so that the joint management of the entire SNS (National Health Service) network was specifically directed to respond to these types of patients. Regarding the specific case of the fireman, who unfortunately had an accident, I must say that he was transported to the Castanheira Health Centre, which, according to the conditions, was the one who could locally offer a better response, from the point of view of proximity to the response capacity. on site, it was attended by a team of INEM, notably a VMER of the Medium Tejo Hospital, and was stabilized. He was then transported to Prelate. There was immense operational difficulty in terms of the helicopter being able to land, transport and evacuate the wound, but during that time the fireman always had the support of the INEM team. I should draw attention to the fact that, in these cases of much clinical instability, which is of much greater interest in stabilizing the patient and transporting it properly than the speed of progression, the speed of transport of the patient. Carrying the patient quickly can condition, in an unfavorable way, the patient's prognosis. And, in this case, what has been done was to stabilize the patient, it has been prepared clinically, in the most appropriate way, for transport, helitransport, and then to achieve the operational conditions to do so. This was done and the fireman, who, unfortunately, had the problem that he had, was transported appropriately from a medical emergency point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u79	Mrs Teresa Morais now has the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u80	Mr President, I have asked the Bureau to request the distribution of the declaration of admission of the fireman Rui Rosinha, who entered the Prelate, not after being transferred but from the beginning, at 6 a.m. and 2 minutes in the morning, 10 hours after the accident, a document which was handed to me by the fireman's relatives, with the express request that he should not forget his situation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u81	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Make it to the Bureau, so it will be distributed. We moved on to the second round of requests for clarification to the Minister. First of all, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u82	Mr President, Madam Minister, today's debate is a terrible tragedy which has affected hundreds, directly or indirectly, not to mention thousands, of Portuguese, and which has undoubtedly shocked millions of Portuguese. And I would say that, unfortunately, we cannot do more than those who have lost their lives or their possessions, but we must try to restore the relationship of trust between those Portuguese who have been shocked — not to mention the family members of the victims and friends — and the capacity of the State to respond to a phenomenon that is unfortunately not this year, not two years ago, not three years ago, not five years ago, it is many years ago, which are the forest fires. Therefore, Mrs Minister, with the sense of gravity of what we are talking about, with a sense of responsibility, but also in the context of what I consider to be my duty to whom you elected me, I would like to ask you a call and several questions, some of which I have already asked yesterday. Madam Minister, while respecting the difficulties, even personal, why it has passed, because it is not easy to deal with that theatre, I would like to say to you, frankly, that you should come to a debate of these, in the Assembly of the Republic, and refer to a technical independent committee — which is that, and the Minister and I are politicians — to the technicians what is political is little.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u84	I tell you more, Mrs Minister : come and say, 12 days after this tragedy, that it is available — more, it guarantees availability — to work with this technical committee is really very little! So the appeal I would like to leave, like what I said yesterday, and that is what the Portuguese — all of us, including the opposition — ask you, is that it be the same, that it be minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u86	Why do I say that? It is that we have been watching the Minister asking questions for three consecutive days, rather than giving answers, as is the duty of the political officer, and giving a single answer, which is to say that he has already asked questions. But you asked who? Oh, my God! To the PSP ( Public Security Police ), to the General Secretariat of the MAI ( Ministry of Internal Administration ), to the GNR ( National Republican Guard ), to the ANPC, to the institutes which the Minister protects. And while the Minister says that she has no answers to give because she is asking questions, the institutes which you are guarding, which you are commanding in public, in newspapers, on radios, on televisions, saying: "The fault is not our fault, it is the partner's fault! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Minister, we are talking about an essential ministry, where the chain of command is fundamental. Knowing who commands, when commands and who defines timings is essential, today and always, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Be a minister, that's the appeal I leave you. Having made this appeal, and keeping the tone of responsibility, I would like to ask a few questions, irrespective of the reports you have requested. The Minister said yesterday that the fire broke out at 14 hours and 43 minutes, that at that time there were 75 operational and 22 material means on the ground and that, two hours later, that is, at 16 hours and 43 minutes, she received the information that the fire was spreading; there was a reinforcement and there were 167 firefighters, 48 vehicles and two helicopters present. Madam Minister, the first question I would like to ask you is this: given the weather forecast capabilities and valences of the IPMA and taking into account what is possible, which is to predict the evolution of that same fire—and I do not ask why it was not there any more helicopters— why were no more means prepositioned, be human, be aired, in view of the capacity of the IPMA to make this pre-evaluation? With regard to the SIRESP and the Secretary-General of MAI, the Minister said that she thought it inconceivable — on the way, let me remind her that this is a secretary that you are the guardian — the SIRESP antennas are inoperative, but that she nevertheless asked the IGAI (General Inspection of Internal Administration) to conduct an inquiry. Mrs. Minister, I asked you yesterday at 11. the day, and I ask you today, at 12. the day: do you already have the report? Is it so hard to see why two antennas of a system called SIRESP were not operational and whose fault is it? Why don't you have the report, Minister? It's a school you're in charge of. Madam Minister, of all this — and I have already said — what is most at stake is, in relation to what we can do today to deal with the seriousness of the situation, to guarantee the confidence of the citizens. We heard a high head of a big union, the most representative of the country, the ASPP (Union Association of Police Professionals ), saying that the failures of the SIRESP are repeated, are usual, in sports enclosures, in airports, in shopping centers. Mrs. Minister, can you assure us that this is not true? This also has to do with this debate and with the need to replace the confidence of people in the state. Mrs Minister, I ask you, once again, two questions I asked yesterday and which you did not answer me. First: why did the National Operational Commander of ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority) never take command during combat? Mr. Prime Minister said that it was because he was at the headquarters of the ANPC, but I would say that he wasn't just at the headquarters of the ANPC as he was on television. I see no explanation for this, I must tell you, but I imagine you will refer me to the report that you gave to ANPC. Finally, Mrs Minister, because this is political supervision, a political debate in a political sovereignty body, I ask a very clear question. On 21 June the Minister, in an interview with RTP, said that—and I quote—there is no evidence that there has been any failure in the state's response. Keep it, repeat what you said? After what we have heard from the institutes that, I repeat, the guardianship, maintains this statement? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u87	Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u88	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration, I begin by expressing deep regret to the family members and friends of whom I have left us and I also express my solidarity and appreciation for all those who have engaged in the fight against fires and support for a defenceless population. at the time when men, women and children needed the assistance of the state, the state failed. For those who consider volunteering to be cheating, I recommend that they revisit the tragic events and see who prevented the tragedy from getting bigger. The moment is from pain. We must be careful, but we must also be consistent and we must be ashamed. In August 2003 the leader of the Socialist Party of the time, in the same Chamber, said: “It is necessary to know whether or not the so-called ‘restructuring’ has been put to pressure, like many of the so-called ‘structural reforms’ that this government says they do and that they then demonstrate, in practice, what they lead to, what is this total vacuum in response.” I add: why has the structure of national and regional coordination been profoundly altered over the forest fires era? In August 2015 a current member of the Left Block said: « We know that weather conditions are an important variable in the number of forest fires occurrences, but it is not legitimate to blame only the weather conditions, as the government is trying to do ». I add: it is not legitimate to blame just the forest. Mrs. Minister, that's already burned. Who else assumes their responsibilities? As someone said, the government's incompetence cannot find justification in meteorology. More than a week after the tragic events, we must recognize that the State has failed, and failed in what could least fail: security and protection of people and goods. In 2006 the Government of the Socialist Party and Minister António Costa awarded a security and emergency communications system which did not, after all, work. In 2006 the Government of the Socialist Party and Minister António Costa acquired six helicopters, of which three are no longer working. How is it possible, Mrs. Minister, in the middle of a forest fire season, that the SIRESP mobile units are not active? Is it the best time to maintain the systems? Let us not see in the answers that have been given to this scourge since last year. We do not see ourselves in the responses given by the current majority that the Government supports to the regrettable events that we all witnessed and that defenceless citizens did not deserve. Madam Minister, by exalting the work and commitment of all our firemen, of the other forces in the presence and of all those who, anonymously, have organized themselves, replacing the State with a primary task, I ask: is it not for the State to guarantee the safety of people and goods? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u89	To ask questions, in this second round, you have the floor of Mrs Odete João.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u90	Mr. President, Minister of Internal Administration, the tragedy that took place in northern Leiria district left a trail of destruction and pain. The fire wore the whole landscape black. As far as the view reaches, it burned everything. Fire covered populations with pain and suffering. Human lives were lost, jobs lost, material goods lost, forest burned. at this moment, it is time to act, act with serenity, act by trying to help the victims, act by trying to rebuild the houses, act by seeking to rebuild the infrastructures. This is where we should concentrate and wait for the assessment that is being made, know how to wait quietly and not help more contradictions, the more I say, the propagation of lies, which in no way bring serenity to those populations. Now is the time to act.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u92	I have been in affected councils, I know the region well, I know and keep in touch with the entities and people in that region, and therefore I also know the pain and suffering of those people. I am therefore witness to the dedication and commitment of Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Secretary of State of Internal Administration, of all members of the Government who have closely followed this tragedy and who are committed to finding the best solutions for that place. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The emergency right now is to support the victims and that is what Mr. Prime Minister is committed to doing, as well as all the teams of the different ministries. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand what the PSD came to do to this House when it asked for an independent technical committee and cannot wait for these answers, when it continues to contradict what Mr Pedro Passos Coelho said, i.e. that it was not reasonable to have unfounded versions. We have seen here once again a huge lack of responsibility, which again helps undiscovered versions and does not help to find solutions but rather to seek contradictions. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, it is time to concentrate on what is important, on the major issues of humanitarian support for these populations. [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] It is regrettable that we continue to echo misgivings and that we continue to say that a fireman — and I quote what Mrs PSD said — "has been walking around the country." It's not serious! It's not serious! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u93	Tell me what the reverses are!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u94	The Health Committee was on the scene, brought the explanations and the Secretary of State has just given the same explanation. It's not serious! It is disrespectful to those who are in suffering! It's disrespect! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] Mrs Teresa Morais, we will continue with serenity. Today, in his speech, he showed not to know the territory, not to know its spelling, not to know the forest and forgot that his government contributed to the desertification of that region and drew operational capacity to that region. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mrs. Member, take a conscientious examination of the action of your Government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, having the Minister of Internal Administration ordered a number of inquiries, I ask you: how long can we wait for these answers, doing so calmly and with the responsibility that the moment demands? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u95	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u96	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, much has been said in the IPMA alerts, but I would like to recall that the IPMA alert for those two districts was not red, was yellow and, in consonance, were naturally determined the alerts of civil protection. on that day, if memory does not fail me, the red alert was for the district of Lisbon, for the district of Santarém, curiously, districts that had occurrences of fires but not with the size of others. Therefore, it is never that exact science, as you must understand. As for the question of antennas, they were not the two inoperatives. We had an antenna of the Republican National Guard that had been used in Fatima's theatre of operations at the time of His Holiness's visit, which had a breakdown in his hydraulic system and therefore had to go to Spain so that this hydraulic system could be repaired. By the time the PSP antenna was operational, it was only in a garage for mandatory reviews, and this was mobilized. He was finally mobilized. The question of answers and answers has to do with the impact of communications, whether they have failed or not. But we are not going to reduce this to the issue of communication. We're not going to reduce! [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] If there were cases in which the communication did not enter the command post, there were many cases in which it entered. Therefore, it is necessary to go on a case-by-case basis and check everything for everything in order not to enter this debate of « Joaquim said that or stopped saying that», because this is not a serious way to work. The answers must not only be given objectively but also validated and confirmed. Mr Nuno Magalhães asked why the National Commander was not in the theatre of operations. Do not forget, Mr President, that on that day, although, fortunately, without the fatal victims to whom we witnessed in the fire of Pedrogão, we had a huge fire in Gois and a series of very worrying fires. The National Commander is the one who controls the entire territory and therefore had to be in his national command post to run not only that fire but all those, and above all those two, who existed simultaneously. That is why it was the second operational commander. The honourable Member also spoke about the operational structures of ANPC. I tell you that 25 people have moved in, that is, they have been in the same place; it happens that two people have had to be replaced, because they lack their degree and finished the moratorium that the law gave them to finish it and unfortunately they did not finish it, so they could no longer perform their duties. On the other hand, people have the right to retire and, thus, one person was replaced because it was for retirement; then there were also promotions within the structure, that is, there were people who went out from one level and moved on to another and, of course, must be replaced. But I remember that 2013, a year also with fatal but not so tragically fatal victims, was one of the worst years of fires in terms of area burned in this country and, in this year, just before the time of fires, you, in that structure that had 38 people, changed 21 of them, that is, they changed much more than we the structure. And at the time, you never heard anyone say... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u97	Listen, listen! And they're here! I've already distributed. That's not it! There are limits!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u98	... and establish this cause/effect relationship. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u99	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the Minister continue. If they want to intervene, they have regiment mechanisms for that. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u100	As for the question of giving all the answers, of course we have to give answers. Now, again, I say: we must also have a sense of responsibility. And the sense of responsibility imposes a lot of weight on us, until we send out news to the air that then, the minute after, are not confirmed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u102	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: When the unimaginable happens and when there is so much pain, so much loss, so many victims is the duty and obligation of the State, on the one hand, to find out all the responsibilities, everything that happened, what was missing, what went right and what went wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u104	On the other hand, it is also the obligation of the State to learn from mistakes. The evaluation should not only serve to establish responsibilities, which are important, but should also serve to inform the future and the government of what could have been done differently, so as to ensure that, when the unimaginable happens again - and, we agree, extreme and unusual climatic phenomena is probably what we expect most in the future - at that time it is the obligation of the State to be better prepared, to act more quickly and more effectively. Mr Minister, the SIRESP report states that there were no failures, or that the intermittent failures that occurred were filled by redundancy systems. The field operators, from firefighters to security officers, say the opposite and the National Civil Protection Authority also had several contradictory statements during this process and in this regard. Since the start of the operation of the communications system, the SIRESP, which has been identified several failures in several situations, including coverage capacity and capacity to respond to limited situations with intense communication traffic, among others. Even last year, in the fire of Sardoal, in August, several failures were reported at the level of SIRESP communications. How can Portuguese and Portuguese trust a system like SIRESP, a system that is expected to work when everything else fails, which is supposed to work precisely in these limited situations, but what does it always fail? Even more so, Mrs Minister, is it a system that has cost public coffers more than 500 million euros and that continues to render, in this disastrous model that are the public-private partnerships, even more so when there is a clause in the contract with SIRESP that inhibits the liability company in the event of failures, in the limited situations, these situations for which the State, precisely, has contracted this system? Oh, my God! The State cannot continue to pay a concessionaire and a system that always fails!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u106	You cannot leave the security and protection of people, populations, in the hands of private people. And, Madam Minister, as the unimaginable may happen again, it must act more rigorously and vigorously in prevention, and this is due to the fight against desertification, the enforcement of the law as regards the cleaning of forests and the signage of accesses, the fulfilment of the security areas around dwellings, along roads and roads, also goes through the revitalization of the human means of forest surveillance, but, above all, through a completely different policy from the ordering of the forest and by an obvious choice: whether the political, financial and profit of the large cells, or whether they are worth more people. But it is also acting in the capacity of the means of combat. This tragedy, which struck Portugal a little more than a week ago, but also all the fires which, consecutively, hit our country every year, should serve for the government to question what kind of civil protection it wants to have and what model of operation and organization of firefighting and firefighters want to have. When we have professional firefighters, I'm talking about municipal firefighters, who earn just over 500 € per month; when we have firefighters who give up power by law, perform operational functions from over 50 years old but cannot be reformed; when we have successive governments who have not been concerned about cutting off the bonus for early retirement of these firefighters and who then see their arms with a body of aged firefighters, where there are always more exits than entrances; when any insurance company to make insurance for a firefighter or a firefighter, a personal insurance, housing, vehicle or anything else, considers that this is a high-risk occupation and therefore applies an aggravated security, but the government continues not to recognize this high risk and not to recognise this quick wearer profession; when we have firefighters who are sent to fight the firefighters without access to the detailed information and updated on the terrain that we are going to find; how much we have high-valued men and we have the same equipment of 15 years ago we have the same time we have used these tools. These men and women, who overcome their resistance to pain, to suffering, to fatigue, to hunger, to thirst, who place the protection and security of others as the highest fascia, who, despite all the difficulties they face and the way in which they have been treated by successive governments, never say 'no' or never hesitate to provide help to those who need it, unfortunately, several times, with disastrous consequences for themselves, these men and women do much more than their duty and their obligation. The government must also comply with its own. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u107	For an intervention, Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Mrs and Mrs. Members: For those who, like me, were born, grew up and live in that region and there developed their activity as a teacher and geographer for more than 20 years, this is probably the most difficult parliamentary intervention I have to do. Also above, like many others, I was there and saw with my own eyes the horror and the live tragedy and I could observe the feeling of impotence of the populations and the operatives to combat a fire whose dimension exceeded all that we are used to and to which I myself, despite the many years of contact with the reality of the fires, as a Member, as Civil Governor and as Secretary of State, had never attended. For all this, the first word is to regret the victims of tragedy and solidarity with their families and with all the populations of those councils who, in a few hours, saw their lands become real hell of fire and destruction. The second word is thanks and paid tribute to all those who, courageously, selfless and tireless, have been on the ground since the first hour. Well, let them be for all they have done in defense of that territory and its people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] on June 17, Portugal lived one of the most tragic days of its recent history: 64 people lost their lives and more than 250 were injured, following the violent fires in the municipalities of Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera and Figueiró dos Vinhos. They add to this balance sheet huge heritage damage: more than 25 000 ha of burning forest, hundreds of fire-affected dwellings, about 40 companies totally or partially destroyed and 300 jobs directly threatened, in addition to hundreds of equipment, destroyed agricultural and forest machinery and 650 km of damaged road network. The size of what happened and the respect for the victims do not admit, Mrs and Mrs. Members, opportunistic approaches or political uses, which would be totally illegitimate and unacceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By analyzing only the known and confirmed facts and the technical analyses already available, we can state that the catastrophic consequences of this fire are evidence that what happened in Pedrogão Grande and, in particular, on the national road 236-1, was not a common occurrence in Portugal, even considering our geographical position, almost Mediterranean, and the country's weather and weather profile. Under normal conditions, this would have been one more of the many fires that deflammed every year in that area, especially in this period of the year, usually the most critical. If that were the case, today we would be accounting for burned areas of forest and some heritage that could have burned. After all, the situation that occurs almost every year, the result of an old and inadequate forestry arrangement of the current demographic reality, characterized by a very small population and extremely advanced ages. Unfortunately, this time, reality was not the custom. In fact, what seemed to be a normal focus of fire for the time and a routine for firefighters and for the populations of the region, accustomed to defending themselves from the fire, became the result of extreme weather conditions, with temperatures above 40o C and winds in the order of 100 km/h, in a real flame hell, which spread at an impressive speed, opening several simultaneous fronts and with projections that reached hundreds and even thousands of meters, surprising everything and all. Fruit of these circumstances, absolutely exceptional, confirmed by the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere and by all operations on site, many communications and energy infrastructures collapsed with fire and a significant number of people, who lived more isolated, were quickly surrounded by flames. These developments have greatly hampered the organization of the theatre of operations. The multiple outbreaks that were successively defusing, as a result of the projections of the fire itself, the huge amount of the existing forest fuel mass and with low moisture content and atmospheric instability increased to the extreme the local weather conditions which, in turn, favored a rapid and violent spread of the flames. If we put together all of this a fairly scattered human settlement structure, a largely abandoned forest and whose organization comes from the 40s of the 20th century, the elements needed to generate this "perfect storm" were gathered with the known consequences. Without prejudice to the necessary investigations and the comprehensive clearance of the facts associated with this occurrence, the conditions of exception verified would hardly allow a more effective response of the civil protection structures and the fire fighting device. We are talking about an occurrence that, in less than three hours, generated a fire that reached three municipalities and four active fronts, which at its highest point mobilized more than 1400 operational, 400 cars and 16 air vehicles. Given that, on that day, about 150 fires were being built in the country, only by ignorance or bad faith can one speak in failure to mobilize means. It was, without any doubt, one of the most complex fire scenarios that ever occurred in Portugal. A true case of study! We therefore welcome the consensus reached in this House, which intended to advance with the establishment of an independent technical committee, consisting of experts of recognised merit, without prejudice to the investigations determined by the Government and the Public Ministry and the technical reports of the various services. Let us therefore make sure that the facts follow their course and look forward, with due serenity, to the ongoing investigations and reports, at the right time, to take a strict look at their conclusions. at that time, we will certainly be in a position to understand what has happened and from there to remove the proper illusions for the future. Until then, we focus on what we can and must do to reduce suffering and ensure the necessary assistance for the affected populations, because that is certainly the best support we can and must give them at this time. Indeed, this is the time to act in support of those territories and their populations. And if it is true that in the field of relief, assistance and social support it was possible to verify, from the beginning, a strong mobilization and intervention of the different agents, from the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) to social security, by the health professionals of the region and by the many volunteers who quickly mobilized, it is no less certain that the degree of devastation is such that post-disaster support requires very special attention, both in the psychological and in the plan of reconstruction and revitalization of the territory. Thus, the government has been well in the way it quickly put its teams on the ground and how it has been monitoring and monitoring these same teams Since day 19, in the morning, the different government departments are on the ground making the exhaustive survey of the situation, together with those responsible for the three most affected municipalities. In the meantime, and in the face of the spread of the fires to other districts of Pinhal Zone, which suffered enormous forest and material damage, the government, in a decision we welcomed, decided to extend support to the municipalities of Gois, Pampilhosa da Serra and Sertã. In addition, working groups were established for each municipality, coordinated by the CCDR ( Commission for Coordination and Regional Development ) of the Centre and integrating representatives of the authorities, with the aim of raising losses and needs in different areas. Among these are the temporary relocation and housing, the free and simplified issuance of personal documents, the psychosocial follow-up of families, home visits, health, basic infrastructures, energy and communication networks, support for farmers and businesses affected, civil protection and legal support. The creation by the Council of Ministers of a revitalization support fund is also a far-reaching measure, since it enables public and private funds to be channelled in an organized and appropriate way to the real needs of the various municipalities. It is worth noting that this fund will be managed by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, with the participation of local authorities and IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), which ensures, of course, a great proximity to the final recipients of the aid received and made available. Health is also the set of measures announced yesterday in this House by the Prime Minister in the 15th year debate, which demonstrate the attention and commitment of the Government in the process of revitalization and recovery of the territories affected. in a territory that covers three small municipalities, with very fragile economies and with a population that totals 10 000 inhabitants, most of whom are over 65 years old, this catastrophe is a harsh blow to the populations of that region and their expectations for the future. This is the time to all be united and focused on helping these councils so that the living conditions of those who live and work there can return to normal, with the greatest speed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u109	Mrs. Members, once again, the Bureau does not record any requests for clarification, nor any requests for intervention. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Marques, was appointed for an intervention. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The human dimension of the tragedy of the fires that devastated the Central region is irreparable, because every lost life is too important. There was also a large number of injuries, as well as major material damage, losing housing, interrupting business activity, agricultural holdings, forest activity, as well as communications infrastructure, energy or transport. In the face of such an event, as it could only be, the first priority was to fight the fires and watch the wounded. Many have given everything they had in those dramatic days. But the fight against fires was still under way and urgent assistance measures had already been initiated for the affected populations. On the way to the site, on Sunday, Mr Prime Minister launched an intervention plan to identify the needs on the ground and mobilize the resources needed to respond to them. We placed multidisciplinary teams on the ground, operationally coordinated by the CCDR Centre, integrating municipalities, social security, health, civil protection, infrastructure of Portugal, agriculture, forests, the economy. The coordination of the responses, in conjunction with the authorities, was essential so that each case, each need, could have the most appropriate solution, without overlap of interventions or empty areas that were left without solution. Among the emergency responses we have made since Saturday night, let me highlight the areas of health or social security. in the area of health, multidisciplinary teams were created to respond to the needs of the population, involving family physicians, nursing, psychological support, public health, emergency support of INEM, and who have now travelled the territory to provide support to the affected. Social security also mobilized teams, in a total of 142 technicians, who were on the ground providing support in mobile posts and conducting home visits. Particular emphasis also deserves the participation of the military in the singularity of their intervention in support of the populations. Basic needs such as food supply have also been ensured. Until the supply of food in livestock or the removal of carcasses of animals was essential to ensure, from the outset, public health. at the infrastructure level there was also a response from the first moment, at the level of electricity supply, also beginning later the replacement of communications, performing the cleaning of roads, repairing floor in the sections that required this intervention. Having responded to the most urgent needs, we then started a no less important phase: the reconstruction and revitalization of the affected areas. Thus, by concluding these days the lifting of the damage, we can already ensure that resources will be made available to recover the homes, businesses, agricultural and forestry farms, the infrastructures of the affected region. In any case, we can make a provisional balance sheet, necessarily, of the work already done: some 500 houses have been identified so far, partially or wholly affected, about 20 % of which are their own and permanent housing; 40 companies in the industrial and agro-industrial sector have been affected, with about 350 jobs, 20 % of which, if no measures have been adopted — legal measures such as layoff or others — could be at risk and of course we want to safeguard the fullness of jobs beyond those which, however, other companies in the region have been making available. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All solutions are being sought, in an organized manner, to ensure that needs in the field are met quickly, including the recovery of the productive potential of these companies and agricultural holdings. These solutions will also go through the use of European funds, with rules of greater flexibility, for which I have met with the European Commissioner Corina Crețu himself this week and, corresponding to the great solidarity of all the organisations and in particular the European Commission, I have also found the Commissioner and his services, with whom we are already working, to create these conditions for the additional mobilization of European funds. And, of course, we will also use the national financial resources that are needed. But reconstruction must also be an opportunity to move the necessary planning of the territory, without which the forest will continue to be pastured to such situations. Tomorrow, there will be a debate where this matter can be developed, but in order to ensure this order, Mr. Prime Minister has already announced the creation, in the municipalities affected by these fires, of a pilot project for the rearrangement of forest and organized management. To conclude, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, in this great effort to respond to this catastrophe, we must record the extraordinary solidarity movement that has been generated in Portuguese society. All those who, in any way, in Portugal and in the world, are in solidarity with the affected populations here, on behalf of the Portuguese Government, want to express our appreciation and gratitude. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the best way to honor the memory of those who have unfortunately left is now to help their closest ones, to lift those communities, to rebuild those councils. That is what the country expects of us and that is what we are all deeply committed to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u111	Mr Minister, two Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. I ask the Government how do you want to respond: alone or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u112	Mr. President, together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u113	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, after the dramatic tragedy in which so many were left with nothing, it is urgent to restore the productive potential in the affected areas so that economic activity is possible again and that jobs, which are no longer many in the country, can be preserved. We have seen increased support for families, which is very necessary, but we are not aware of what is expected of support for companies. in the agricultural area, the Minister of Agriculture has already stated the Ministry's involvement in the distribution of different support for animal nutrition and has also pointed out that the line of support for the replacement of the productive potential of the PDR(Rural Development Programme) 2020 is available to farmers of the municipalities concerned. from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and from the management of Community programmes, we did not know developments on measures to support the restoration of the productive potential of companies, including industrial, processing and even the tourism sector, companies that were so affected by this tragedy. The Minister gave us information on support today, but it was less specific about support for companies. Therefore, Minister, a first question is about the concrete support to be made available to economic activity so that, as soon as possible, they return to their normal activity, preserving jobs. However, Mr Minister, the support for the replacement of the PDR2020 Productive Potential already announced is no more than the measure already existing in that Programme and on which the Minister of Agriculture says that it will not be strengthened financially and that the co-financing rates of 50 % or 80 % will be maintained since these are the Brussels rules. That, Mr Minister, refers us to the second question. Since this is an exceptional situation, why does the Government provide the means already provided for in the Community programmes and not the exceptional means to address this exceptional situation? Would you not agree, Minister, that support for the replacement, for example, of the productive potential within the framework of the PDR2020 could and should be shared at 100 %? Is the government available to deal with these constraints imposed by the European Union, which prevent the country from making the necessary investments at the best living conditions in the interior and the best conditions to deal with these adversities? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u115	To request clarification, Mr. João Gouveia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, two brief background notes and a specific question to the Minister. With regard to previous notes, one is aimed at assessing the tragic events and this is to underline the unequivocal and healthy national convergence — Presidency of the Republic, Government, Assembly of the Republic — in the « no» to whitening and in the « yes» to transparency and truth, in the « yes» to the complete and rigorous clarification of the facts,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... of course, with a view to a consequent learning that will improve the ability to respond in the future and also the appropriate and indispensable allocation of any technical and / or political responsibilities, as appropriate. A second previous note, already aimed at the replacement of both the living conditions of people and families, both the economic and social environment, to point out that the implementation of similar support programmes, aimed at solving social problems with the same origin and nature, in any municipality in any district of the country, is, should and should always be a national social and political imperative. Moreover, the conclusions of the working meeting held yesterday in Pedrógão Grande, between Mr. Prime Minister, accompanied by some ministers, and chamber presidents of the municipalities reached, Leiria and Coimbra districts, according to information and reactions already known, point to another paradigmatic example of this. I would like to stress, in good rigour, that transparency and equal treatment are, among other things, fundamental principles for the credibility of the exercise of political activity, particularly the government, and the consequent strengthening of the confidence of citizens, even in an atmosphere of profound sadness, such as the current one. Therefore, the question is very objective: do you confirm that the Minister and the Government have come to be, and will it continue to be, the behavioral and operational strategy of the Government? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u117	The Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor to answer the questions put to him.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ramos, I will try to develop a little more the information which I have recently given here, up to the level of what is now possible, since we are developing a work with the European Commission exactly to create these exceptional conditions to support the replacement of economic activity. We started doing this work, as I said earlier this week and yesterday there was another meeting here in Portugal with elements of the European Commission, in addition to the contacts that have been developing over the week. The operational programmes we have are geared towards supporting innovation, on the part of companies, and there is no replacement of productive capacity, but I have found all the opening to discuss concrete measures, in the context of these disaster situations, even in the spirit and letter of a regulation adopted this week, precisely in Brussels, in order to make changes, where appropriate, in those operational programmes to address businesses, to restore their productive capacity. As I said recently, of the around 350 jobs involved in the affected companies, about 20 % may be at risk. There is therefore a need to support the income of families, in the phase of integral interruption of activity, because it is in these cases that we admit that there is an integral interruption of activity for some time, and at the same time to support the rapid replacement of the productive potential of companies. The Minister for Agriculture has also already admitted that, in the context of support for the replacement of agricultural and forestry potential, the mechanisms are, for example, exceptional applications only for those territories and not for the whole territory that could be covered. Let us see what measures are needed, in particular, but where the Community funds cannot support, we are working with the European Commission to find other instruments. The most important, in any case, is an integrated approach and, yes, Mr. João Gouveia, is even the intention of the Government to be a replacement strategy, to rebuild those communities in what is most urgent, but also in what is most important. We take care of social support, health support in the first hours, in the first days, we have also taken care of the transformation of housing conditions, because there are many affected houses — the thorough survey will allow us, in the next few days, to know how to advance, in each situation, on the issue of housing — but then it matters the replacement of economic potential, which will give quality of life, employment and sustainability to those territories and to those families. Therefore, in agriculture, forest, agro-industry, industry, but also in tourism, Mr Deputies, we want to help that community in an integrated way. Today, tourism in Portugal is meeting on the ground with the most affected tourist companies, to build with them a campaign aimed at the national market, in order to call also the solidarity of the Portuguese, maintaining the levels of tourism and the search for that region. And we want to do this, as we did in the first week, with actions aimed also at the international market. All these areas were involved and there was an integrated, coordinated mobilisation of the media of the state, in very strong partnership with the authorities, because it only makes sense, in order to provide first, in the most urgent hours, immediate support to the populations, but also to act strategically and rebuild those communities, making the most affected communities born. This is how we will continue to work, that is, we will continue to seek to give those families more future, to give those communities more future, because, as I have just said, to honor the memory of those who have left is to help those who have stayed and rebuilt the future of those councils, covering all those who have been affected by those fires, dealing in particular with the housing situation, particularly in the very affected municipalities with regard to the destruction of dwellings, but also supporting the economy, supporting the forest, supporting agriculture, supporting the subsistence and the strength that that the community has to regain. The state will not lack, the authorities will certainly not lack, the national solidarity and the local community will not lack to rebuild that community. We are very, very committed to it, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u119	Mrs. Members, once again, no requests for registration are made. [[Pause.]] Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the way in which the debate has taken place has shown us the essentials of what must be at stake. When we talk about openness and transparency, on our part, we know perfectly well what we have been talking about. Firstly, because from the first hour we have shown complete willingness to participate in an extended consensus, in the sense that a genuinely independent entity can ascertain and evaluate all the complex aspects linked to the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, but, secondly, because we have accompanied and supported the way in which the Government, equally supportive of this initial purpose, has itself contributed to making all aspects clear without any ambiguity and without any gray area. That is why on the part of the Government, as we know, no one is expected: the Prime Minister has taken very concrete initiatives to ensure that, on the side of the most relevant entities, both in the area of clearing climate impacts, whether in the area of clarification on security devices on the ground or in terms of conditions for the exercise of communications, everything could be clarified. And it's being clarified. Similarly, the Minister of Internal Administration, also leading this purpose further, determined a structural assessment to the technological conditions in which SIRESP works and therefore what can be done to improve it. But the Minister has also determined an audit of the specific management conditions of mobile entities articulated in the same system. And it was also the occasion to tell us yesterday, in committee, that an urgent decision is taken to ensure that, by direct adjustment, satellite connections by inoperative mobile antennas are put into proper technological operation. The government is therefore not stopped. And at the same time we have many questions in common, particularly about the phenomenon of the fire dynamics that took place in Pedrogão Grande, we know that the government has also developed the diligence to ensure that this detailed assessment is also made with a scientific nature. however, from the very first moment, we know that, together with the effort to fight fires, there has been no less effort in what is fundamental: on the one hand, humanitarian, psychological and social support to populations and victims, on the other hand, the restructuring effort that Mr Pedro Marques has told us here right now. But it is not surprising, if we can still admire that, since the PSD took the initiative of this debate, supposedly in the name of concern with the support of the people, when we should talk about the positive actions that are being carried out on the ground on all fronts, there was no single issue to put to the government, precisely what matters most. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we were at the exact time of the questions, it is very strange that nothing they wanted to know about the reconstruction effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u122	After all, this debate may have been a mistake on the part of those who promoted it, because, if it were not a mistake, both the aspects of restructuring more immediately and what was mentioned yesterday by Mr. Prime Minister, in order to create in the Pedrogon area and adjacent municipalities a pilot project of forest reorganisation would also lead us to highlight here the importance of this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u123	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u124	Not one thing or another deserved the attention of the PSD. After all, what the PSD here brought us was essentially a conversation of hearing to say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u125	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u126	...but talking about hearing to say is what the Portuguese least need right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u127	You have the floor now, too, for an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Thirteen days after the start of the fire in Pedrógão Grande, there are more questions to this day than answers to explain the tragedy. And, Mrs. Minister, I've been there too! I know the difficult days you've lived, but I can't accept that, 13 days later, you're here saying that the only conclusion that comes from is that it was a big fire. Wanting to question and demand answers is not political use,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u130	... is the function of elected Members, particularly of Members elected by Leiria District.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u132	by demanding answers, I do it not only because I have been there, in Pedrogão Grande, in Castanheira de Pera, in Figueiró dos Vinhos, not only because I know many of those who saw the tragedy at the door of their houses, not only because it is chosen there, but above all by the victims, by the family, by those populations who demand answers and because a tragedy of these cannot take place again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u134	It has to be explained why, on June 17 and 18, despite requests for relief, people were left to their fate in Sarzedas, in Peoples, and many of them lost their lives fleeing the fire. It has to be explained why there were villages where there was no firefighter and we knew after Portugal refused the help of 60 Spanish firefighters. It has to be explained why five hours after the fire broke out in EN236 there were 47 people who lost their lives trying to escape the fire. And please don't say it's everyone's fault, because that's saying it's nobody's fault. They don't even say it's the eucalyptus' fault, because the eucalyptus were already there...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u136	... and had never died 64 people, 63 of whom civilians. [[PSD applause.]] It was not just the system, it was not only the SIRESP that failed, it was the State, that has an obligation to give security and protection to those people and has failed round and now it has to assume its responsibilities to ensure that this never happens again. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u137	The Bureau received a final request from Mr João Almeida from the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot delude ourselves: we are here because the country has experienced a tragedy but, essentially, because the State has failed and because we all represent the State, we have been elected, we have been invested in functions and we have the responsibility of having the State failed, to assume that responsibility. It is obvious that, in the opposing sides, we assume this responsibility as an imperative that we be at the time and what is asked of us, but also on the side of a government that is at such a difficult time, it is essential that there be a responsibility not to hide. on the contrary, it must assume the preponderance it has to have in response to the situation, but also in assuming the responsibility to respond to people and to be able to overcome the failure of the State. Attention, the problem is a problem of confidence for the entire Portuguese people, who have seen the state fail, but it is also a problem of consistency of the devices. Who was, at that time, committed to the device, who was part of each of the institutions, had a feeling that perhaps what was unthinkable would happen, after all, could happen. Citizens who move freely and happily throughout the country have come to realize that, perhaps, circular is more dangerous than they thought. We should not dramatize, but dedramatize would be even worse, because it would be to hide the need to restore confidence and consistency that is certainly a mission of all. When we take responsibility for the state we know that these things can happen, but we know that after a tragedy like this there are two ways to go. For each potential mistake or omission we can seek an apology or justification, release our conscience by saying that what could be a mistake after all was not and that it could be an omission after all was suppressed. But there's another way. There is the way of, for every mistake and omission, looking for what could have been done, the warning that could have been raised, the medium that could have been mobilized, the answer that could have been given, and then we will see whether or not it was possible. But we must have the answer for every potential mistake or omission and know, on behalf of the State, what we could have done and then see if we could have done. But what nobody understands is that, instead of looking for what we could have done, we look for the right excuse or justification for, after all, we did everything right. Because if we had done everything right — everyone, the state — this would not have happened. It is in the choice of this path, the path of excuses or justifications or the path of answers, which is defined if we are up to the situation. It is clear that this can then have a consequence: if we say that there was an answer to give, a means that could have been mobilized, something that could have been different, of course they will ask us: "then why didn't they do it? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But this is also the time to be able to respond by the State. It is to realize that there is a time when they can ask us, who should ask us, who have the right to ask us: "Why didn't they do it? Why didn't you get it? Why does the State not have, should it? Why didn't the state do it? And it is from this answer that we should not be afraid and realize that, depending on the answer, there may be conclusions to be drawn. We must first give the answer and draw the following conclusions; always be committed to having the answer and then realize that it can force us to have this or that attitude, to withdraw this or that consequence. Let us be honest: we can continue to appeal to each other to be able to deal with the problem, but there is only one way to do so, which is to restore the confidence of citizens and the consistency of public systems and, so far, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no answers to that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u139	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. The Portuguese, who have become more afraid, so far have not found reason to trust again, the operatives, who distrust the consistency of the systems, have not yet found reason to understand that this consistency is restored. We have to be there, we have to look for the answers, we cannot fall into the temptation of justifications and excuses. If we do, we will be able to get what was a failure of the State to be a return to the top and the consistent response of a country that, of course, has to have rulers who are up to the value that this country has. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u141	The Bureau noted, however, that Mr Pedro Pimpão, the PSD, was included in an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that coming back week and a half about the most tragic fire there is in Portugal, we discuss this issue in Parliament, with good faith, is a dignified and serious way of giving voice to the people of Pinhal Interior. What people are asking us is that we find answers to what actually happened and that we find solutions for a tragedy like this never to happen again in our country. I have followed closely this tragedy—I believe that it is my duty as a representative of the population—and I have been with representatives of all political parties. Parliament and the members of the committees who have been present to see the scale of this tragedy. The inhabitants of Pedrogão, Castanheira de Pera and Figueiró dos Vinhos gave us a great lesson: they showed their fiber. It was the people who, in many villages, defended their homes, their possessions and their possessions, the people who lost everything. When I arrived at the Castanheira de Pera, already on Monday, after the weekend, a territory without communication and completely isolated, people only told us: "Don't forget us! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And I said to them, "We do not forget you, we will not forget you." And now the country cannot turn its back on them and the promised support must effectively reach the ground, to whom it needs such support. We must all unite and find solutions that help that territory to re-enter the ashes, the recovery of businesses and jobs, the dynamisation of the rural environment, the priority to forest planning, the strengthening of health units, the social support to the poorest, the unemployed, the psychological support to those who need the same support. It is because, my gentlemen, these days, the Portuguese state has failed, we have all failed because we have not been able to save the lives of those 64 people. So I wanted to tell you that I know those people, generous, humble, courageous people, and I know they will not give up. I am sure they will need our support and with the support of all we will be able to leverage the rebirth of a region that will remain forever in our heart. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u143	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for an intervention at the closing stage of the debate, Mr Luís Montenegro, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say, at the close of this debate, that on the one hand, we feel satisfied and, on the other, astonished. Satisfied, because Parliament has an obligation to represent the interests of the people, the interests of the voters, the interests of those who are the recipients of our action. To examine the functioning of the Administration is one of the main, but not the main, objectives of a Parliament and Parliamentary function. I therefore believe that it is not even worth answering to say that this debate is a minor debate or a misunderstanding. That's why I say I'm astonished. I am amazed at the devaluation that many parliamentary groups here have made of the debate about the tragedy that has happened and I am amazed at those who fear that they will divert attention from the responses that the country requires to debate the reform of the forest, poisoning the debate so that it does not respond to the essential thing that the Portuguese want to know today. [[PSD applause.]] [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u145	My ladies and gentlemen, 64 people have died and there are over 200 people, our fellow citizens, who are injured and we don't know what's going to happen to them yet. This never happened until today! We have an obligation to tell the Portuguese people what has failed, but we have a greater obligation, which is to reassure the Portuguese people, to restore their confidence so that, in the villages throughout this country, the elderly who are in isolated homes, the children who play on the street or the families who go on vacation to their lands can have a restful summer, may have a confident summer, knowing that the state will be there if this phenomenon of fires repeats itself at their door. [[PSD applause.]] That is what motivates this debate. We know, sirs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, who, objectively, were very discoordinated. Public entities still contradict each other. We know this, we know that health services failed to give the answer that was necessary, or do we not know? Mr. João Oliveira was disillusioned to charge the Government before the lack of means and its coordination. Let's not play with serious things. Today there is a government that has to assume responsibilities and there are parliamentary groups that also have to assume their responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u146	Sure! Nothing else! Proposal for amendments, proposals for strengthening the means!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, each one chooses the subjects to which he wishes to give priority and preference.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u148	Political misery!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u149	Mr. João Oliveira, I do not allow you to say that this is political misery. You know why? I imagine what you would say if we were in the opposite situation today. I imagine what you'd say! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u150	They would have asked the whole government to resign! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u151	I was here in 2003, when we came here to hold a plenary meeting in mid-August, as I was here in 2005, in 2006 and 2014, and always on the PSD side, we wanted to give responsibility, sobriety and serenity to a debate as melindarous and as sensitive as this. [[Oh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u152	But each one chooses what is a priority in his political action. I respect, although I do not understand, that you want to be now focused on forest reform, but there is one thing that you also have to have, which is respect for our choice and our choice today is not to silence, our choice today is to give peace, is to urge the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u153	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u154	The Government is not in a comfortable position and we know this, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, but it is necessary that decisions should be made, that there should be answers, that people in this country outside should be able to resume an idea of normality, that any incident, any fire will, as in the past, cause much devastation, perhaps many damage, but will not cause so many deaths again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u155	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u156	And we are here today to say that we will help the government, we will help the parliamentary groups, we will not underestimate the conclusions that have been taken, especially those of the independent committee, but we cannot ignore...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u157	Mr. Deputy, you have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u158	... that there are things we have to tell people, there is tranquillity that we need to return to the country and there is confidence in the state that we are all responsible for safeguarding. We respect each other in fulfilling this plan! [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u159	Ended the political debate required by the PSD under Article 64 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, on the safety, protection and assistance of people during the tragic Pedrogão Grande fire, I will give the floor to Mrs. Secretary Emília Santos, to account for her file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u160	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 564 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the independent technical committee for the speedy analysis and clearance of the facts concerning the fires that occurred in Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertã between 17 and 24 June 2017 ( PSD, PS, BE, and CDS-PP ) ; and draft resolutions 954 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Brussels ( President of the HR ) and 956 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( AR President ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-29.u161	Mrs. Members, having completed today's work, the next plenary session will take place tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on the agenda for the debate of Question No 14 / XIII ( 2.m. ( a) — On the forest and desertification of the rural world (The Greens). to 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2017, which constitutes the second item of the agenda, was not allocated time for discussion. There will still be regular votes, not at 12 noon, but at the end of the debate. The meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 23 minutes.]]
