ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the agenda of today's sitting, there is a marking of the CDS-PP, in which the drafts of lein.o 384 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Amendments to special payment by account ( amendment to the Income Tax Code for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ) ( CDS-PP ), 385 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, extending the effects for 2017 of the exceptional employment support measure by reducing the contribution rate by the employer and changing the source of financing ( CDS-PP ), 386 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Commends that the Cooperation Commitment for 2017, to be held between the Government, the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, may not increase by less than 2 %, plus the value of rising the inflation rate and the rise of the contribution rate to the social sector, in the financial sharing due under cooperation agreements concluded for social responses ( CDS-PP ), 387 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduction of the IRC rate ( Amendment to the Income Tax Code of Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ) ( CDS-PP ), 393 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons ( IRC Code ), taking up measures contained in the reform adopted by Law No 2 / 2014 of 16 January ( PSD ) and 394 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 120 / 2015 of 30 June ( PSD ). To initiate the debate, Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 17 January this year, the Government signed with the social partners a conciliation agreement which was intended to compensate employers for the increase in the minimum wage. It was an agreement which provided for a temporary reduction of 1, 25 % of the single social rate ( TSU ) to all entities which had to collect the minimum wage and which aimed to compensate for the increase already in force since the beginning of the year. the day on which the agreement was signed, the Government already knew that it could not comply, because it had not even ensured the basics of governance, i.e. to ensure confirmation in Parliament of what it was proposing in consultation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u3	in this process, the government weakened the social dialogue, weakened the consultation and undermined its own credibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in this process, the government can only complain about itself and how much of its left-wing parliamentary partners, those partners with whom the Socialist Party had said it had achieved a stable, sustainable and credible government solution. He's alive! See you every day! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u4	Ah! ...That's where it hits the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u5	If there were any doubts, with this behaviour the Portuguese have come to understand why this government which has the surname « management ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u6	Exactly! [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u7	It is a government that combines what it cannot, that gives what it does not have, and that promises what it knows it will not fulfill. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And, as it is already customary in the Socialist Party, the responsibilities always remain for others, the resolution of the problems is always for whom to come. It is not the government that pays the minimum wage, it is not the government that has to worry about keeping open the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that generate and maintain jobs, it is not the government that cares about the institutions of the social sector, more exposed to the increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u8	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u9	for our part, as responsible opposition, for every criticism we make we present a proposal, for every complaint we make we move forward with our alternative. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why we have scheduled four initiatives for today. These four proposals ensure that the increase in the minimum wage, which is received by many workers who need to improve their condition, who need to have the guarantee that they can sustain their incomes today and in the future, will not be against the growth and competitiveness of our economy, against the generation of jobs, against the social protection that is carried out daily by the social institutions, from north to south of Portugal. for our part, the 'fava' of the government's irresponsibility cannot go out to the economy and social.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u11	It is precisely to protect the economy, growth and investment, the creation and sustained maintenance of employment — it is businesses and institutions that create jobs, not the government — that the CDS is advancing with these four legislative initiatives. The first is the reduction of the minimum limit of the special payment by account ( CFP ). We want to support all companies, industrial, commercial and agricultural companies, but, in a very special way, we are concerned about supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often the ones most charged with the minimum wage, which are often the ones that have revenues below the threshold of the payment of IRC (tax on the income of the public) and which are, in this sense, those who need greater protection in view of this increase in their charges.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u13	We want to reduce the minimum CFP limit from €850 to €500, as well as to decrease from 1 % to 0, 75 % the turnover that serves as the basis of its taxation, giving more liquidity to the economic fabric and reducing the tax burden to the companies most affected by the increase in the minimum wage. The second proposal is to extend the reduction of 0, 75 % of the TSU in 2016. This is the measure that most directly compensates all employers, companies and social institutions, and, in fact, is a very similar measure to that which had been created in 2014 and 2015 by the previous Government, which allowed the first increase in the minimum wage after the years of freezing to which the Socialist Party had condemned it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u14	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u15	However uncomfortable this is today for the Socialist Party and for the parties that support it, the truth is that it was a Government of the Socialist Party that broke the social agreement, freezing in 2010 the increase of the minimum wage that had been agreed in consultation, and that later entered into the Memorandum of Understanding with the troika that the minimum wage could not increase during the adjustment period. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u16	by extending for another year the measure that made possible the social agreement in 2014 and 2015 by the previous government, but also the social agreement in 2016, we demonstrate not only the respect we have for the consultation and the social partners, but, above all, the concern we have with the economy and social. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u17	However, in a different view than the Socialist Party, we believe that this measure should be financed by the State budget and not by the social security budget, that is, by the money of the current and future pensions of pensioners and workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u18	The third proposal aims to protect the social economy sector and the essential role this sector has in cohesion, equity, social protection, especially those who are weaker and less disadvantaged. It is a sector that is present throughout the country, north and south, coastal and inland, is a sector that consists of about 50 000 entities and represents more than 5 % of paid employment in Portugal, but it is above all that guarantees the social response to the elderly, those who need continuous care, the younger and the Portuguese with disabilities. This sector, by its nature, is very exposed to the increase in the minimum wage and that is why it should have direct compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u20	Social institutions, practically, have only contracts with the state and the participation of families as sources of financing. If the state fails them, it is the families that will have to ask for more,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u22	... which seems to us to be a great injustice, because we cannot sacrifice them because of the failure of the State. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] We therefore propose that the negotiation between the social institutions and the State should ensure, beyond the increases resulting from inflation and other commitments previously made, an increase of at least 2 %. The fourth initiative is aimed at investment and the competitiveness of our economy. Of all the economic variables that are not running well, the ones that are running worse is that of investment. After the investment grew 4, 5 % in 2015, 2 % fell in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u24	Without trust there is no investment, without investment there is no strong growth in the economy and without growth there is no creation of sustainable employment. Portugal has to have a tax framework that is attractive to investment, whether national or foreign, but above all it has to have a stable and reliable tax framework that allows investors to believe that it is worth putting their money here. In 2013 it was possible to make a reform of IRC, which, cautioning the sustainability of public accounts, ensuring broad parliamentary support, gave stability to those who look to Portugal as a good place to invest. The first thing the management did was reverse this measure and the result is in sight: the investment, which had grown 2, 3 % in 2014, which had grown 4, 5 % in 2015, fell more than 2 % in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u26	It is to help investment, it is to help businesses and their workers, it is to help the Socialist Party to honor the word that it gave investors we propose to resume the down of IRC, I already lower the rate to 20%. This is our concern: the economy, employment and social protection, businesses, workers, social institutions and the Portuguese they serve daily. This is our commitment and our concern in this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u27	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, the Bureau registered two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u28	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u29	First of all, Mrs Mariana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mota Soares, I confess to you that the position of the CDS in this matter is not very clear. in the preamble to one of the projects that brings us here today, it is said that the CDS asked for a parliamentary assessment of the TSU reduction diploma to change the form of financing this reduction of the employer contribution. The fact is that at the time when the parliamentary assessment was discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic, the CDS did not present any proposal for debate, in fact, abstained from the vote on the diploma and brought nothing more to this debate. It now comes after the debate closed, after deciding on the compensation measures, to bring a proposal which, in practice, meets the one who has already agreed and which will be brought to the Assembly of the Republic next week to be discussed and two other proposals which are ideas already rejected in the Assembly of the Republic — one of them for weeks, another for months, at the time of the discussion of the State budget. They are the reduction of the employer TSU by 0, 75 %, a measure which even the PSD rejects, because it believes that it is an incentive for low wages, in a country where work is already worth so little and 30 % of workers receive the minimum wage, and a second measure which is the reduction of IRC by 20 %, which in practice — and we will not tire of saying this — is a tax breakdown for large companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u32	I recall that there is already a reduced rate of IRC for small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ). Those who benefit from a reduction in profit rate are the ones who have the most profits. If the purpose of the CDS was to support small and medium-sized enterprises, there would certainly be other measures that would support much more, such as, for example, the reduction of energy income,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u34	... area where the Left Block has fought a lot and has achieved results, unlike the CDS which, when it was in government, has achieved nothing in energy income and in support of companies. Therefore, in general, the measures that the CDS brings us are more expensive to the state, promote a low-wage economy and are a favour to large companies. The CDS says the government gives what it does not have when it is to provide social support; however, it now proposes that the government do what it does not have, but to help large companies. Finally, Mr President, what I ask you is whether this is not the opposite of the innovation economy, the technology economy, the value-added economy. What comes here is the economy of low wages, it is the old economy, which is also the cause of the impoverishment of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u35	To request clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from his bench, asked the Socialist Party to honour his word. I'm going to read Article 8. that of the IRC reform, which says, inter alia, in paragraph 1, that the reduction of the IRC, to be considered in the coming years, should be considered simultaneously with the « reformulation of the VAT and IRS regimes, especially with regard to the reduction of the rates of such taxes ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u37	Look, you've seen it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u38	A monitoring committee was set up, which said that, according to the expectations of companies, the rate should continue to decrease. But what the Portuguese did not see from the Government that you were part of was the weighting on the reduction of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and VAT (tax on value added ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u39	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u40	He did something else: at the same time as he continued to reduce IRC, and this reduction in IRS and VAT was placed in the agreement on a proposal from the Socialist Party, he came to this House to present the family coefficient, proposed in clear disagreement with this bench, with the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Pedro Mota Soares, fulfilling the agreements means fulfilling everything and not just the part that interests us. I am proud that the Socialist Party, at a very difficult time in the country, has made an agreement, because it was an important agreement for the country, but to defend the Portuguese from a government that made a huge increase in taxes, a government that had increased VAT, a government that cut wages and a government that cut pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And finally, the only part that you wanted to accomplish was to continue to reduce the IRC rate, the corporate profit rate. Mr. Member, if only to reduce the IRC rate, the Socialist Party, this bench, any political direction of the Socialist Party, would never have signed the agreement in 2014. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, do not ask us to honour commitments, because we honour our commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u42	We regret that a government that you were a member of, with a State Secretary indicated by the CDS, had failed to honour this commitment, failed this Party and failed the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to ask you the question: when do you bring, in addition to reducing IRC, a cumulative reduction of IRS and VAT, fulfilling your share? But a reduction for when they become government again and not now, which is relatively easy to propose to this government that you have fulfilled what you have promised the Portuguese and that you have not fulfilled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u43	They're politicians!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u44	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u45	Mr President, of course, I would like to thank the many questions that have been raised to me, either by Mrs Mariana Mortágua or by Mr Eurico Brilhante Dias, starting by answering the Left Block. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in this debate there is a big difference between the Left Block bench and the CDS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u46	Just one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u47	There are also, of course, other matters, but in this debate there is a great difference. Do you know what it is? It's just that we're discussing the CDS proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u49	As for the proposals of the Left Block, Mrs Deputies, I do not know any! I don't see any! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua speaks very strongly but, today and tomorrow, when we vote on proposals from the CDS, we will vote on PSD proposals, and the Left Block, in this debate, has chosen to flee, has chosen not to be present, has chosen not to participate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u50	We did what you didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u51	And there is another difference, Mrs Deputies: it is that the CDS, before the debate on parliamentary appraisal, was careful to talk to all the social partners. The CDS greatly appreciates social dialogue and spoke with all the partners who have signed that agreement, discussed with these alternative partners, because our concern, Mrs Deputy, is not — as it has been seen — the concern of the Left Block — to make a small political number, to try a misunderstanding with the government here, to make some intrigue here and then to let the 'fava' of this misunderstanding go out to the companies, go out to the entrepreneurs, go out to the social institutions and ultimately go out to the workers,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ... because it is job creation, it is the growth of the economy that can be affected if there are no measures that compensate for this increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u52	What is the majority going to decrease the PEC? Is that yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u53	That is why, Madam Member, I am very pleased to hear it, I always have the pleasure to hear it, but unfortunately I do not have the pleasure of discussing proposals from the Left Block, because I already realized that BE, in this matter as in others, is very concerned about making a number for television and less concerned about the effective growth of our economy. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As far as Mr Eurico Brillante Dias is concerned, thanking him very much for his question — Mr Deputies, in fact, was part of this reform committee — his logic is just this: the Socialist Party does not lower taxes on companies because the former Government has not complied with an agreement. This is its logic—which is not brilliant and can therefore only be a 'Euric logic'—is: 'trap' companies;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u54	Don't! I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u55	... companies will pay the bill of indecision or lack of political decision of the government. It seems to me that, in this House, eventually for the Communist Party, for the Left Block, for the Greens, the honourable Member may stand up. And I even admit that the honourable Member can stand up for the government bench. Now, what I don't understand is like any investor, any Portuguese who is concerned about the future of Portugal, with the growth of our economy, look at Mr. Deputies and say: « After all, those you just don't go down the IRC, just don't meet the agreement they did because, by the way, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias is very concerned about whether the other taxes have come down or not».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u56	We did it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u57	More importantly, Mr President, as you know, VAT has fallen now, but only for restoration. It wasn't that VAT for the energy you were talking about! [[Now!... Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u58	It has already, in part, lowered the IRS supertax, but it was not the whole, that you said it was going to end. Only in part! Open... But, Mr. Member, even with regard to your argument that you were expecting other taxes to be lowered to lower the IRC,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u59	That you guys wanted to freeze!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u60	...this has happened. at this moment, what you have to do to keep your word, to honour the Socialist Party's word is to vote in favour of this proposal of the CDS and thus help the economy, help investors and help Portugal. That is why you and your bench will be confronted with this vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u61	Before giving the floor to Mr Marco António Costa, who will intervene to present Bill No. 393 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) from the PSD, I will ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file you have entered in the meantime. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 397 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment of the denomination of the parish of « Rua », municipality of Moimenta da Beira, to « Vila da Rua », municipality of Moimenta da Beira ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission and draft resolution No 648 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently establish the land exchange agreement of the extinct EB 2, 3 Fernando Pessoa with those of the new Fernando Pessoa Basic School, with the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira ( PSD ), which falls to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u63	Let us then proceed with our agenda. Mr Marco António Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, in the wake of the growth behaviour it predicted for the Portuguese economy, and only in order to maintain the political agreements it has established on the left, meant to increase, politically and favourably, the national minimum wage, presenting it in social dialogue as a finished fact. In view of this fact, the social partners believed that the Government would honour the word to grant them a reduction in the single social rate as a way to subsidize companies that had hired workers on the basis of a low-wage policy. This measure did not deserve the approval of its political allies and, of course, it also gathered our disapproval, which we reaffirm here. Instead, the Government presented the reduction of the special payment on its own account as a substitute and compensatory measure for companies that hire low wages. in which it is written in this agreement of social consultation and its addendum, there is a casuistic action, without strategic relevance for companies and the economy. The PSD is where they put us, in opposition...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u65	Finally, they complied!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u66	... and in the opposition we oppose what we consider wrong, but also in the opposition we will present proposals and initiatives that may be structural for Portugal and for our collective future. It is in this framework that we believe it is of the greatest importance to focus our attention on taking measures that can contribute decisively to increasing the investment and competitiveness of our economy. This reflection is all the more important when, within the international framework, we note the preparation of measures by the new American administration, at the fiscal level, which will surely lead to a strong international impact on the capital available for investments, coupled with protectionist measures which will as a whole constitute a significant challenge for our companies and the competitiveness of our economy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is therefore crucial to resume the debate on the issue of the tax reform of the IRC. In 2014, the PSD/CDS-PP government implemented an IRC reform that allowed the foundations of a medium-term fiscal policy to be established. This was a structural reform that was supported by the Socialist Party and generated a positive expectation of fiscal stability for investors, which is essential for good investment planning and job sustainability to be created. The results were evident: investment increased with gross capital formation fixed to grow 2, 3 % in 2014, and 4, 5 % in 2015 causing employment recovery. It is true that this government has not taken up functions, has broken the agreement between PSD, CDS and PS for the reform of IRC, despite the evidence given by such reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u67	Bad memory reform!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u68	This decision, in our view, compromised the confidence of companies and investors. In 2016, the economy fell short of expected because of course the investment fell from 2015 to 2016. The 2013 Tax Pact has given clear evidence of success in investment, growth and employment. This government, for revenge, decided to condemn him to death, placing a final point in the last great political consensus reached in Portugal. It is recalled that following the agreement in December 2013, the investment had a significant growth and thus had a positive effect on employment behaviour. This is the government that planned for 2016 a growth of the economy that has not, after all, reached. This is the government that said it wanted to attract and encourage investment but gave a beat in the last great fiscal reform consensualized among the three largest parties in Portugal, which was decisive in order to ensure the objective to which it is intended. The results are therefore in sight. This week was known to the OECD report, which stressed that Portugal has a serious investment problem. We did not need this report to say this, but it reinforces what we all know — that after a recovery in 2014 and 2015 we saw a significant fall in investment in 2016. Worse than that: says the OECD report that the reforms carried out by the previous government have increased the attractiveness of foreign direct investment in Portugal and that the reversals that the current government has undertaken compromise this result and distance foreign investment. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Investment is essential for the Portuguese economy. We know that and the government knows that too. For this reason, it was presented to the Portuguese with an electoral platform in which the increase in private and public investment was supposed to play a key role. Do you want the PS to fix the cracks you did when you took power? Do you wish to correct the wrong path you took to the country? According to the government's own updated estimates, the investment will have fallen by around 1 % last year. Despite the State Budget for 2016 to project a growth of 4, 9 % and the famous macroeconomic scenario of the PS for the decade to project a growth of about 7, 8 %, the truth is that we are far from that reality. It is recalled that in 2015 the investment grew 4, 5 %. These are comparisons that matter because they give the dimension of the fiascos of your policies to the economy. The country needs to resume the path of the reforms that have begun and have allowed sustained economic growth, a growth that, despite being called anemic by the left parties, is greater than we have now and the one that is projected on the horizon for the coming years. The country needs investment, it needs to regain confidence and to present itself as a competitive destination for investors. To this end, the PSD considers it essential that the IRC reform be resumed with the gradual reduction of its rate to 18 % in 2020, providing an attractive, programmed, predictable and reliable tax framework for those who want to invest in the country. Now, it has the opportunity to contribute again to generate confidence and encourage companies to invest, making the economy grow more robustly and thus promoting sustained and responsible recovery of Portuguese income. To this end, it is enough that the proposed law presented here by the PSD will be made available in order to resume the reform of the IRC. The questions are simple, ladies and gentlemen. Members : whether or not the Socialist Party will contribute to restoring what it signed in December 2013 and scrape it in January 2016? Whether or not the Socialist Party will again have growth rates of our economy, year after year, which are truly increasing, or do you want to continue to live on the reforms that others have had the courage to do? Do you want the PS to be part of the solution and contribute to structural responses, or do you want to continue in the casuistic policies, to the taste of corporations? For us, the challenge is launched. It is now on the PS side that the answer is whether the invitations to understanding are sincere or merely tactical. Finally, it should be noted that we also present a bill for the social and solidarity sector because it is equally relevant to bring back confidence and predictability to this sector. Our draft law no longer aims at ensuring a structurally based relationship in a legal framework that introduces objective negotiating factors of the protocols and commitments for cooperation and that they occur in an appropriate time. I stress that the month of February and there is not yet a commitment to cooperation that defines the values of updating the funding of the institutions for 2017. We therefore propose that the negotiation of the cooperation undertaking and any infringing undertakings be carried out when the respective State budget is drawn up, coming into force at the beginning of the year to which they report. In conclusion: what we want with these two bills is to give confidence to the economy, encouraging investment, growth and employment, but also to continue to ensure a stable and unsubmitted relationship of the social sector and solidarity with political power. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u69	Mr President, you have signed up to request clarifications of two Mrs. Members, respectively, of the Left Block and of the PS. Do you intend to answer one or both requests for clarification together?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u70	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u71	All right, Mr. Deputies. So, to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u72	Mr President, Mr Marco António Costa, frankly, it is difficult for me to believe that the PSD wants to return to the TSU debate in the Assembly of the Republic. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that it was a moment of internal exaltation on the day when the PSD showed the contradictions of the majority in parliament—and let me take this opportunity to say that the Left Block welcomes your vote next to the Left Block to a degree that was good for the workers—but may be certain that, more than the contradictions between the Left Block and the PS, which are distinct parties, what you are. Members showed the internal contradictions of the PSD when they voted as they voted two weeks ago. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u73	They have also shown that they prefer to defrosting politics, but that is the policy we want to discuss here. The PSD made it very clear in the last debate that what concerns it is not the decline in TSU, what concerns the PSD is the increase in the national minimum wage and today, with these proposals, make it very clear, if any, that the concern of the PSD is not with the small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. Moreover, I am glad to reply to Mr Mota Soares, who was so concerned about the measures of the Left Block for companies, telling him that it was this parliamentary majority that went down the PEC, that the Government that you were part of did not fall, that this parliamentary majority dropped the VAT of the restoration, that the CDS said it would go down and not go down, and it was also this parliamentary majority that managed to reduce energy revenues, that your Government said it would go down and not go down. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about measures for companies! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Let us then return to what the PSD brings us today, which is not a compensation for the increase in the minimum wage, which brings us today is a tax bill to the large companies of this country:... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ... or lower the profit rate of large companies to 20 %, a value below Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Norway and Spain, just to give some examples. The big companies, which profit most, are the ones that will benefit most from the proposal they bring here. It wants to reduce the tax base for these companies by increasing the deduction of tax losses from five to 12 years. We are told that it is to support small businesses, but it happens that small and medium-sized enterprises are already 12 years old. Now, what we are proposing is to reduce taxes once again to large companies. And after all, the cherry on the top of the cake: it wants to increase the scope of the tax benefit of participation exemption for large companies. For those who do not know, what the PSD is proposing is that it is enough to have 5 % of the capital of any company in the Netherlands so that I can transfer my profits to the Netherlands without paying taxes. [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u74	This is to promote tax planning; it is to favour tax collection to the state by the large companies that use these schemes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u76	They will surely realize that there is no small company that will transfer profits to a subsidiary in the Netherlands, with tax planning schemes that are highly harmful to the interests of the State. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u77	And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the midst of this, it is quite understandable that the PSD prefers to play the game, that the PSD prefers revenge, to politics. This is because what brings us here today, what you have to present to us is an offense for all people who live with €530 per month's salary, to whom Mr. Members feel that giving more €27 per month is excessive, at the same time that they come here to present a tax bill to large companies. This is an offense to all those who receive the national minimum wage, which you are. Ladies and gentlemen refuse to increase. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u78	To reply, Mr Marco António Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u79	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, allow me to tell you that the matter of TSU has allowed itself to be realized in the country that the coalition that today supports the government that is in operation is not stable and consistent, as was promised to the Portuguese, is before variable and opportunistic geometry, as is concerned by the parties that compose it. That is the fundamental difference. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, Mrs Deputies, what brings us here to this debate are much more important and substantive reasons. On the national minimum wage, let me tell you that in this party there is the political heritage of having participated in 20 national minimum wage increases, in governments of their responsibility. Therefore, it is our heritage, it is not claimed by you, it is practiced and executed by this party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u80	And we did so with the social conscience that demanded that this increase in the national minimum wage should always be very ambitious but also very realistic, in order not to cause imbalances that cause unemployment and lead businesses to difficulties. from what you're accusing us of must turn to the government bench, to your allies, to those you support, it's not for this bench. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u81	on this bench, we are aware of the facts. We voted for TSU in the same way as you because we know the consequences of what was happening. It was the promotion of low wages, it was the perpetuation of a policy of low wages. In fact, the Minister of Solidarity had the opportunity, in his speech in this Parliament, to recognize that the path that was planned for the national minimum wage was unsustainable, and that should also make the left benches that agreed the value of the national minimum wage politically, party, with narrowly electoral objectives and not looking at the reality of the economy. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u82	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we do not accept these charges, on the contrary, we return them to the government bench because we do not review them. It is appropriate to say that they have to resolve these disagreements internally and do not have them with us for that purpose. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u83	Madam Member, IRC is a very serious matter. The numbers which I had the opportunity to report on the increase in investment in 2014, the increase in investment in 2015, of course the economic growth that took place in 2015, and also the fall in unemployment associated with these initiatives, relate to the fact that there was an important agreement in December 2013 on the predictability of fiscal policy for companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u84	Try that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u85	What you're trying to pass is a fake message. This agreement led companies, between 2012 and 2015, to pay more than EUR 1000 million of IRC than they had previously paid, a growth of around 25 %. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u86	That's not true! [[It's true, it is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u87	Mrs Deputy, for the Left Block, it may be a difficult matter to accept ideologically, but it is a reality that is imposed and contrary to that ideological fixation. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u88	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we do not repeat these accusations, and the proposal that we put forward is fundamental so that confidence in the economy is not permanently lost and that investment recovers, in Portugal, because the indicators we have are truly worrying and unfortunately will have negative effects on other areas, particularly on employment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u89	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u90	Mr President, Mr Marco António Costa, I have some difficulty in hearing you accuse opportunism parties because I think all Portuguese remember — and I hope that you too — of the words that you said during the social agreement. What you said was that the PSD's position was different from that of the Left Block in which you understood that the measure of the reduction of the TSU should be extended. So, you can't come here now to tear your clothes... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u91	...and say that the PSD fights low wages. We can have this discussion, but it is certainly not in this field, or then you have to explain why you are defending a position and you are against it. They are both public, but this contradiction is yours and it is up to you to clarify it. On the question of IRC, the honourable Member said here that the IRC has been downloaded and the revenue has risen. Mr. Depute, who paid the income of the IRC downturn, in 2016, because, as you well know, payments on account were made at the previous rate and who paid the reduction of the rate made in 2015 was the Government of the Socialist Party, in 2016. And, Mr President, you can be sure that, despite the difficulties caused by your government, we still had quite a bit better budgetary results than those of your party. With regard to investment, he said here that IRC caused the increase in investment, which is fundamental to the confidence of companies and that it was the abandonment of the decline in IRC which led to the fall in investment. Sir, I disagree with you. And you know who also disagrees with you? It is the 4000 entrepreneurs who belong to an investigation stock exchange that are published every six months, several years ago, by the INE. These are the main reports on the intentions of the business sector, on behalf of whom you say here, and they say the opposite of what you say. I'm going to give you the numbers: the 4000 companies that are surveyed by INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) said in October 2015 that the investment in 2016 was going to rise by 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u92	Fall!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u93	in companies grew 6 %! He never fell!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u94	And this investigation was done again in July 2016. According to Mr Deputies' theory, what these entrepreneurs were supposed to have said in July was in the sense of a review of the low investment because of such a breach of confidence that Mr Deputies claim, and that now, having no decline from IRC, they would no longer invest and that the investment would fall. Interestingly, the entrepreneurs didn't say that. Do you know what the entrepreneurs have said, sir? These 4000 entrepreneurs who responded to the INE survey, which is the country's main business investment report several years ago, said that business investment fell in 2015 – I repeat, it fell in 2015 – but in 2016 it was reviewed upwards, i.e. the 3 % increase in investment that these entrepreneurs said they were going to make in October 2015, rose to 6 % in July 2016. Mr. Deputy may be convinced that, in fact, IRC is fundamental to increasing investment, but when we look at the numbers in detail we know that in 2015 it was in the construction of public investment but that business investment, which depends on trust, had a better behavior in 2016 than in 2015. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u95	So the only question I have to ask you, Mr President, is: how? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u96	To reply, Mr Marco António Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u97	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Allow me to begin by answering the first question you put to me and which has to do with the statements I made. Mr President, I have said, in fact, and I say that if TSU were reduced to companies, it was a situation of immorality — I repeat, of immorality! — not to be extended to IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity). Do you know something, Mr? What I didn't tell you was that there was a government that gave itself to the role of going to social dialogue to close agreements for which it had no competence or was sufficiently supported to sign them. That's the only difference. [[PSD applause.]] I am of the time when, with the Prime Minister of my bench, the word given was an honest word. Therefore, there were no failures in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u98	That's a little too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u99	Do you want to start by talking about the holiday allowance, Mr Marco António Costa?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u100	I repeat again, Mr João Galamba : what I said has to do with the principle of mistrust that the Left Block has in relation to the social sector and the social economy. There is a principle of distrust, there is a bad will of the Left Block in relation to the social economy. He said, I repeat and reaffirm: if there had been a reduction in TSU for companies, it would be an immorality — it was the expression I used — not to extend it to IPSS as well. Mr, let's talk about the IRC issue. I will not speak on behalf of the entrepreneurs, because you have already done so and I will not do so. In fact, I don't know if you've been able to understand everything you said, but there's one thing I can explain to you, because the data are objective. So I'm going to explain the simplest given. in fact, what happened was that, following the IRC reform we did, which was one of the fundamental reforms to investor confidence, there was an investment growth in 2014 and 2015 as well as job recovery and economic growth. You have put an end to this reform, the economy has not grown what they have designed and the investment has dropped. Those numbers are stone stones. You are pursuing a ruinous economic policy for companies. As such, I read an email that I received from an association, following a letter that this association wrote to me and the answer, which is public, which I addressed to you: « We should thank you for your reply to our email on 17th of the current month. While understanding from a political point of view the position of the PSD, the fact is that with this huge increase in the national minimum wage and if there are no compensatory measures, this sector will become less competitive in the globalised markets to which it exports. This was the response of a business association, which recognises that there is a remuneration policy that does not actually correspond to the growth of the economy. Mr Deputie, also on IRC, I ask you: do you know who paid in 2015 for the same reasoning the increase in the revenue that occurred in 2014? It was the PSD government and the CDS. And it was exactly in 2015 that, compared to 2012, raised the revenue of IRC 1000 million. Therefore, this thesis that you are trying to launch to devalue the results obtained does not collect. In conclusion, I wanted to leave one last note: we are in favour of income growth. But we have a prudent and responsible position, we do not have an electoral and populist position like that which you have assumed solely in order to gain political gains and not to give confidence and ensure, with sustainability, the growth of these incomes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u101	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 22 December, at a meeting of CPCS ( Standing Commission for Social Consultation ), the minimum wage for 2017 was agreed with the partners. This agreement included a set of measures that would go beyond the reduction of the single social rate, which in some way sought to compensate for the increase in the minimum wage and did not support its increase. on that date, and on those days, we heard statements by Mr Vice-President of the PSD bench saying that the essential was the extension of this measure to the institutions of the solidarity sector. It was not necessary to start by asking for this enlargement since, in view of the measure taken in 2016, social solidarity institutions benefited from the reduction of the single social rate. Therefore, of course, the government would never equalize the same reduction for these institutions. It was also for those days, before 25 January, when, in this House, it was determined that the Decree-Law would cease to apply, which would reduce the single social rate, that another member of the PSD board came to claim that the PSD would be consistent with its position of the past. Of course, what did the government expect? He hoped for coherence and responsibility. It was also in this context that, on 25 January, the agreement for the increase in the minimum wage was called into question, due to the decision taken and that it counted on the votes against the Social Democratic Party, which today is defending the update of the participation to the institutions in order to support the increase in the minimum wage, and with the abstention of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, which today proposed to take action on which it abstained. So, I can't help but say that I think it's curious here that the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u103	Madam Secretary of State, I apologize for interrupting you. There are many Members standing, so I would like to thank you for sitting or leaving the Chamber, because the working conditions, so, are quite bad. You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u104	Mrs. Members, calling for the fact that a social agreement was concluded after the inconsistency that was felt by the PSD Parliamentary Group not only on 25 January, as in the previous statements you made, and in view of the position taken last year, and also in 2014 when similar action was adopted by the Government, it seems to me at least curious. But on 25 January, by determining the termination of the Decree-Law establishing the reduction of the TSU to offset, in part, the increase in the minimum wage, the Government assumed, of course, that it was, and respecting it, a decision taken. We therefore do not understand the schedule that has been made for today's debate by the CDS Parliamentary Group in order to seek to maintain a measure whose termination was on 31 January, so it is no longer in force today, and with budgetary impact for this year, which at least does not comply with the labour law laid down in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We can also talk about the other proposal which is presented here and which aims to update the social security participation for the institutions of the solidarity sector. It is interesting to have a party that has integrated more than one government, and a government that has legislated this matter, in fact, respecting what has always happened for decades, to think that it would now be the first time in history that the updating of the participation to the institutions of the solidarity sector would not be carried out through negotiation between the government and the representatives of those institutions. What is at stake here is to break this tradition, a tradition that precedes the Pact for Cooperation for Social Solidarity, which dates back to 1996. In fact, before that there was this tradition and that is what is at stake when we are before two parliamentary groups that have legislated this matter in 2015, i.e. made a decree that regulates cooperation with the institutions of the solidarity sector and in it it is expressly stated that it is through agreement between the State and the institutions that proceed to the update. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are at least faced with a further inconsistencies, but an inconsistencies which, once again, bring additional expenditure for this year, which at least does not respect the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic either. Finally, and even to finish, it is strange to hear the statement that if there is no update, accordingly, of the financial participation of social security to social institutions, which will not happen because we are in the process of negotiation, it is to ask families for more money, considering that it was in December 2014 that the government then in office legislation on the rules of family participation for the frequency of social equipment, strongly penalizing these families. That's true, that's a fact. And at that time, they did not care about the weight that this increase in family participation would have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u105	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau registered two Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u106	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u107	Therefore, to request clarification, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u108	Mr President, the Secretary of State for Social Security, began her speech on 22 December, the day on which an alleged agreement was established between the Government and the social partners. This agreement was, as evidenced by this moment, a regrettable moment in the history of social consultation in Portugal. Madam Secretary of State, does she not recognise that when she was sitting at that table next to the social partners, she was promising what she could not fulfill?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u110	Doesn't it feel like you've been cheating on the social partners? Do you not feel that you have been undermining the essences, the most important values of social consultation, which are mutual trust and respect? Don't you feel that way, Secretary of State? Don't you have the feeling that you've actually been cheating, not saying that? He affirmed inside that room what it was not possible to do! These are important questions for your behavior to be recorded. Secondly, the Secretary of State referred vaguely to our draft law on the issue of agreements with social institutions. I'm sure you haven't read our bill. If you don't read it, there's no problem, Secretary of State, I explain it in two sentences. What we want is that in the negotiations that exist annually, or that there must be, between the Government and the entities of the social economy, the IPSS, in particular the mercy, a relationship of trust, a relationship of predictability and that this negotiation is made, if possible, during the time the State budget is debated. For what? So that these increases in cooperation agreements may enter into force in January at the beginning of the following year in the year to which the State budget is concerned. The question I put to you is why, being in mid-February, we do not have these agreements signed? Why do we not give trust, predictability and security to these institutions, which accompany thousands and thousands of families, thousands and thousands of users — elderly, disabled, children? Truly, the question is this: does the Secretary of State have anything against this principle of trust, security, reliability in relation to cooperation agreements with the institutions? [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u111	To request clarification on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u112	Mr. President, Mr. Caros and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, we know that the government comes to this debate and views this situation as quite complicated. We are sensitive to this, because in the CDS we really understand that the fact that the Prime Minister signs an agreement and at the time he is signing it to know that he has no political conditions to execute it is a state problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u114	And the truth is, Madam Secretary of State, that since then the government has mismanaged this circumstance. Does the Secretary of State talk here about the problems, the difficulties that arise from the past, the respect for the agreements that exist, in particular in terms of the social institutions? Mr Secretary of State, to invoke this circumstance at a time when the Government, a few days after signing a commitment, is not in a position to comply, is at least bizarre.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u116	Now, it does not cease to be more bizarre than the Secretary of State on the same day that she comes here to say this, she realizes that they are still in negotiation, when we are in mid-February, agreements that should have already been closed, at least before the end of the year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u118	... because social institutions need to plan their lives, they need to know what they count and the truth is that, again, this government cannot respond with responsibility and stability to the needs of social institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u120	But then, Madam Secretary of State, we see that you also have a problem with the truth. We had already seen that this government had a problem with the truth. On this subject, it was well known that Mr. Prime Minister had a problem with the truth. In fact, that's on the agenda, and it's not just about this... there are several ministers with problems with the truth. But did the Secretary of State say here that she did not understand why the CDS had abstained on a matter on which they had an equal proposal? Mr. Secretary of State, you read our proposal, don't you? You know that our proposal is not the same as that which has been put to the vote! Is that what you're talking about? It was good that I should acknowledge this and that this government would quickly overcome the too obvious problems it has revealed with the rigour of the facts. There is, in fact, a great deal of light here that we in the CDS have not abstained from reporting. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u121	Finally, Madam Secretary of State, it seems to us - obviously - and the Secretary of State is called upon to respond by giving a voice to this government - the following: the CDS, in view of a situation which we consider to be of the greatest seriousness, presents itself with a set of suggestions that are not intended to be incisive to criticism but constructive in terms of solutions. by the Secretary of State, the only thing we have heard was no criticism but the invocation of the law-work. But the Secretary of State knows that she has the conditions to make her proposal for the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u122	That's true there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u123	That's what's at stake here. The Secretary of State has to tell us whether she sees herself in the words of the Secretary of State next to you, who says that this government will no longer need the right to govern,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u124	Yeah, no! You can rest!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u125	...and, therefore, rejects at all any contributions by more constructive than they are or if, on the contrary, he hears the words, for example, of a Constituent Member of the Socialist Party, who says that he does not see himself in this attitude, that he is a closed attitude, and that he does not see himself in this cleavage. The Secretary of State, of two, one : either listen and show openness to the CDS proposals or then close and say that there is no room in this government to hear the proposals, even when they are constructive. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u126	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Secretary of State for Social Security, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we say that there was an agreement that betrayed the trust of the partners, we probably did not hear the partners because the partners in all the interventions they did not reveal this. Moreover, if the government had indeed brought the confidence of the partners, that agreement would not yet be in force, and it is! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This may prove that what you have said is not true and is not the Secretary of State who does not deal well with the truth. On conditioning the relationship of trust, predictability, the negotiation within the State budget to update the financial participation of social security towards the institutions, I must say that this predictability exists and is ensured for decades. You didn't change it! Why didn't you predict all these indicators in the June 2015 decree, so recently, why didn't you put so much predictability there? Precisely because negotiation works. And it seems that the negotiation is losing, on the side of the two sides concerned, its value valid,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because it seems that negotiation does not ensure exactly what the negotiation between a government and representatives should be. Don't! It is necessary to come here to legislate, to put indicators... In fact, it has to be at least 2 %. In fact, we are talking about diplomas that do not respect the norm-work, and that is, at least, surreal. That is how you managed to put this matter into debate. That's it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In reply to Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I must say that today's proposal is not the same as it was here on 25 January. But it is also not the same as that which you presented in 2014—in fact, it is much closer to what was at stake here than the other. What is different is that, instead of a reduction of 1, 25 %, as was in the decree law that was discussed here, it is now 0, 75 %. But you felt the need to change the rules: after all, it is not only the minimum wage value, it is between the minimum wage value and the new minimum wage value; after all, they do not benefit only these companies, they benefit companies that have other kinds of remuneration up to 700 €... So many similarities we find between this decree-law and the decree-law that was discussed here on 25 January. In fact, it may be closer to that than to the other. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u128	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has been marked by the repetition of two mistifications. A mistification is in relation to the agreement on the IRC strategy signed between the PS and the parties on the right in the previous Legislature. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias has explained clearly that it is not legitimate to take a contract, read only half of the clauses and demand that only those clauses be complied with while the others are abandoned. An agreement, a contract, is to fulfill its totality! And, as was well stated in that agreement, the subsequent declines in the IRC rate were dependent, in particular, on stirs in other taxes, stirs, which, in fact, the previous government never promoted. The second mistification has to do with the miraculous discourse that takes place around the descent of the normal IRC rate. Me, listening to the ladies. Members of the CDS and PSD, I wondered - even when it would be claimed that only Vasco da Gama was possible to arrive in India because there had previously been a fall in the IRC rate! Because apparently the drop in the IRC rate solves everything. It looks like one of those announcements from African wizards who cure all diseases...! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Members, if we look at the rate of growth in the economy, we see something interesting: the rate of fall in the IRC rate was interrupted in the State budget for 2016, which was voted more or less at the beginning of the second quarter, and what we see is that the rate of growth in the economy in the three quarters before that interruption is lower than the growth rate in the next three quarters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, the only explanation for this is that PSD and CDS see causality on the contrary: one thing happens in March 2016 and has effects somewhere in the summer of 2015! Mrs. Members, there are some physicists who think that this can happen in black holes, but, although it could be a metaphor for the fiscal policy of the PSD and the CDS, the Portuguese economy is still not a black hole. Mrs. Members, tax burden reductions must be taken as options between one reduction and another and expenditure options, and we must not sacralize the fact that a party in the opposition proposes a tax reduction. in the opposition, proposing tax reductions is easy, because this basically means that we vote on the decline in revenue, the government that comes to pay the expenditure. It is to avoid this problem that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic has the labour law there, that is to say, to prevent the opposition, very constructively, over the year, from dynamizing the revenue provided for in the State budget to pay the costs. That is why the labour law exists and has been put in place by that recently mentioned Constituent Member and the others. As far as options are concerned, Mrs. Members, the drop in the normal IRC rate cannot have the miracle effect that is being claimed, because the normal IRC rate is supported by a minority of companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u130	It's the vast majority of the revenue!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u131	Exactly, but a large minority of companies! Well, what's going on, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? We can choose whether to reduce the normal IRC rate or take the options taken in the State Budget for 2017, i.e. to take advantage of the budgetary margin for reducing corporate taxes to reduce them to companies that invest — which was done by voting on the investment support tax system, which has been extended — and for the capitalised companies — which was done by changing the system of conventional remuneration for social capital. There is therefore an option between indiscriminate decline and decline, which is also an incentive for investment and capitalisation. Finally, the question of special payment on account. I must say — and Parliament will have the opportunity to examine the Government's proposal — that will be the second reduction in the amount of the special payment on account of which is made in this Parliament. Therefore, as regards the decline of the CFP, comparing this government with the previous one, at the interval, the result is already 2 - 0, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u132	With travels and football!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u133	Mr. Member, I still like football, don't worry about it! Well, what happens to the special payment on your own? There are some gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when they are in the government, they do not come down and when they are in opposition they intend to bring it down. Once again, why? The government that comes up with the payment of the expenditure...! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The measure proposed by the Government, on the contrary, takes advantage of the budgetary margin that exists and, more importantly, addresses the problem that is essentially in the CFP and its legitimacy. It is that the special payment on account has been provisional for about 20 years and there is indeed a problem with the measures that are temporary over 20 years: they are going on forever. The special payment on account needs to be replaced by a simplified scheme for micro and small enterprises, a scheme which basically frees them from their declarative duties on IRC and is therefore a good alternative to special payment on account. It was in this context that the Government, responsibly, presented the bill to the Assembly of the Republic. And I repeat, it has presented her with the awareness that she must, during the implementation of the 2017 budget, deal with this result of low revenue. Do so, with the awareness that this reduction is comportable for a sustainable evolution of public finances, as the tax reductions made in 2016 were comportable by Portuguese public finances, as the results show. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u134	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, I could remind you of several things regarding the IRC agreement, even because I still have a microphone and I could talk about this until exhaustion. But, Secretary of State, will it not be worth considering what really matters? On this issue, I hear very much the PS discuss all the ways in which it has not met, but I hear little discussion whether or not it is worth it, not only for businesses but also for the economy, for investment and for future jobs, to make this decline or, better, to have, in Portugal, a competitive IRC rate in international terms. This is the bottom line. And it is not by chance that the Socialist Party does not want to debate it, but, yes, to talk about an agreement which, by chance, failed to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u136	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u137	Secondly, the Secretary of State called us "miracles". Mr. Secretary of State, not so much, not so much! But it does not fail to be extraordinary that Mr. Secretary of State, who is part of a Ministry led by a wise, who led, I believe, a group not of miracles but of wise and who has reached the power to promise 2, 4 % of economic growth but now what he has to present is 1, 2 %, that is, half, to accuse others of promising miracles and being miracle workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u138	It is extraordinary, Mr Secretary of State, but I believe that it is a criticism that must be made at the meetings with the Members. State Secretaries, with Mr. Minister and some of the wise ones I still see sitting on the Socialist Party bench, because perhaps they can explain why, after all, they promised a miracle and what they have to offer is a growth lower than that which Portugal had. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, Mr Secretary of State, would you like to say that, from the point of view of the CDS, the question is very simple : in view of the increase in the minimum wage, should companies and social institutions be somehow compensated? And, in this perspective, do we want to find solutions either for the economy, for businesses or for their workers, as is obvious, or are things as well as they are? Oh, my God! If things are as well as they are, I suppose we will never have a discussion on this subject again; if there is indeed a need to do something, then, Mr Secretary of State, what I can tell you is that this is the day and this is the time. And I don't understand why we're just discussing CDS and PSD proposals. That can only mean that the Government and the Socialist Party have no proposals. Mr. Secretary of State, companies cannot wait. And if for you and your government the priority is politicism maneuvers — I apologize for the expression — and for the tactics between management,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u140	... instead of companies and their workers, let us know that, in this bench, for us, priority is in the Portuguese economy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u141	You have the floor to answer, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I must say to you that the government not only does not run away from the debate on the question of the fall in the IRC rate as I have even had the opportunity to mention in my speech — and I would say again — that, of course, if we could dispense all taxes, it was excellent. All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u143	You have to make choices, no doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u144	We're revoking everything! It was excellent! But here is a small detail, namely that it is necessary to finance public expenditure. And, therefore, lowering taxes is a matter of alternatives, that is, if it is better to lower taxes, using this or that mechanism that is alternative. And I said very clearly that, between the option of lowering the normal IRC rate and the option of strengthening mechanisms that generate tax expenditure but which encourage investment and capitalisation of companies and therefore reduce the tax burden on companies in this selective way and with the appropriate incentives, the government prefers the second option. This is, very clearly, the option of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the question of the government being or not concerned about relieving corporate taxation, additionally this year—and I say 'additionally', because, I must recall, there was a reduction in the special payment on account voted in the State budget for 2017 —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u145	It was a proposal from the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u146	...the government is concerned, the bill has been submitted and is scheduled. I do not need to provide further evidence of the government's concern. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u147	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, for an intervention, I would like to remind the ladies and gentlemen. Members who will be voting at the end of the debate. For an intervention, then, you have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this debate, I was tempted to quote a book by a writer named John Kennedy Toole. The book in question, which ended up winning, in fact, a Pulitzer Prize, is entitled A Conspiracy of Stupids and, basically, the main character, a middle-aged man, called Ignatius, passes much of his tormented life and develops an alleged history about a supposed troubled society of the 20th century. It is a complex and very stupid story, even hilarious, but at the same time distressing and uncomfortable, because it makes infernal the life of those around it. This romance, something ridiculous, which is no more than a tragico-media, is a magnificent entertainment, but, Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when something like this, or squeezing the likeness, touches our lives, comes in every day through the house inside, it becomes a painful and torturing suffering. Making the lives of the Portuguese in a permanent martyrdom, announcing false bad things, appalling everyone, it is not beautiful and much less healthy, especially when reality is deceitful, case by case, these rumors. But, as if it were not enough to announce the misfortune, the current opposition also decided to introduce something more exciting: reverse, yes, reverse its propagated letter of principle. And while some are throwing themselves into demagogy, without any brake, as is the case with the CDS, who, after appointing a Secretary of State for a government that has increased the PEC,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u149	It's fake! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u150	... when everyone asked for it to be lowered, it is now the paladin of the reduction of the special payment on account,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... others, also in the opposition, devote themselves to circus numbers. Cambalhots and pirouettes became part of the card, in an embarrassing frenzy, as is the case with the PSD, which completely lost the shame. [[PSD protests.]] Now, it seems, it is worth everything, even if this means tightening up social dialogue and commitments with the social partners, emptying the value of consensus, abandoning companies, robbing them of the competitiveness that they once claimed as relevant. Everyone knows that the PSD does not die of love for the workers, nor did he even want to increase the minimum wage. But what no one expected was that the obstinate blindness of a bullied leader unable to leave his own labyrinth would compromise the agreements signed by the companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges.]] We knew that the PSD does not attach great importance to the progression of labour income. The orientation was that of "the less competitive incomes" — the poverty theory, which has failed, as we all know. But in this unusual case, Mr President, there are those who speak in opportunism. Call him what you want, but the PSD brand became a roulette. However, Mr. PSD members, may play the roulette among you, may play the Russian roulette, may even have silenced the internal opponents and encouraged the closest hosts, but should have a sense of responsibility not to drag the country to your thematic games, which hinder the hope of the Portuguese, which oppose the interest of social actors, who frighten the markets and create anxiety in the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese, using your expression, are not screwing up for the elections, but may well be screwing up for the PSD! [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] The PS Government appears in this framework as the only safe port for Portuguese. [[Continued PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u151	Mr President, please stop the speech for one minute. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau was grateful that the criticisms were contained so that we could have a session in accordance with the best procedures.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u152	They're offended virgins!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u153	It is the Bureau that calls on all speakers in the debate to have a procedure in accordance with what is required of this House. I would therefore like to thank you for returning to the quiet that should be recommended. This said, Mr. Carlos Pereira, and apologizing for the interruption, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. The PS government is the stability factor that does not spread terror or pursue the different sectors of Portuguese society. He even made an extraordinary process of reconciliation with all, leaving no one behind. That is why he returned the income, which paid attention to the reformers and the deprived families, but also why he does not abandon the companies. We will not turn our backs on entrepreneurs, because we know that they are the engine of job creation and those who can help to leverage the country's wealth. It was in this framework that, in these 14 months of government, we gave a new impetus to the business sector, we discussed with entrepreneurs, we challenged entrepreneurs and put forward concrete measures to support an economic growth strategy that supports the creation of employment and the human and social development of the country. To this end, we accelerated the incentive system that the PSD Government had committed for almost two years, giving companies the ridiculous amount of EUR 4 million. In half of the time, the PS Government has already paid more than EUR 450 million for EUR 14,400 million of investment, especially in the processing industry, therefore in marketable goods. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have strengthened the contractual investment regime. In 2016, this mechanism generated 780 million investments, a value greater than the previous two years. We resolved Berbicachos left by the previous coalition, such as the so-called « Banco de Fomento », which was created with pump and circumstances to support companies, but did not deliver a single euro, did not support a single project, did not finance a single company. currently, the IFD ( Financial Development Institution, SA ) has become a key mechanism for the Capitalization program. This business capitalisation programme emerged, with this government, as a robust and decisive response to overcome a hard and factual heritage: during the governance period of the right-wing coalition, we observed a deep decapitalisation of companies, as a result of the deterioration of the internal market, the increase in the tax burden and the objective abandonment of attention to creating conditions for the previous government's competitiveness. With the invisible hand of the market the right joined the invisible hand of the State, compromising the viability of thousands and thousands of companies. The Capitalisation programme has five axes, but I would like to stress, above all, that of taxation, whose measures are all in force with the State budget for 2017. They are critical tools to overcome the obstacles created by the former Government to the Portuguese private sector. I would therefore like to highlight the revision of the system of conventional remuneration for social capital, which has long been requested by employers, and which goes on to make decisive use of own capital; the change in customs VAT, reforming VAT collection and reducing the financial burden of companies; and finally the creation of a tax benefit for businesses located inside, promoting investment and convergence of the economic growth of the regions away from decision-making centres. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I could continue to describe the measures that have been decided by this government and which are already on the market, but I believe it is sufficient to clarify this House, that the position of this government is very significantly contrasted with the absolute blackout that was the economic policy of the Government on the right. [[CDS-PP protests.]] They took refuge in the virtues of the market and compromised the Portuguese economy, because the companies were mistreated and the options presented were almost all in the plane of the inconsequential fantasies, advertisements and speeches that were always on paper or theoretical theses that were contradicted by reality. The right-wing government has put everything in the budgetary perspective and has been having ministers of the economy to interact with more or less liberal but almost always useless to business interests. When it was thought that, at least in the speech and before the eyes of all Portuguese, the PSD would maintain, even though embarrassed, the discourse of the importance of companies and that nothing would do it "to put the rape in the bag" and start a journey without return against social consultation but, above all, against the Portuguese productive sector, businesses and entrepreneurs, after all, were all wrong. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite everything, at the end of the day, what we find clear is that the PSD or at least this PSD has not run for anyone nor does it oppose thinking of a responsible project. Unfortunately, he did all this to the taste of the opportunism of the moment, in a car of contradictions. So I conclude by saying, it is clear today that the people no longer expect the worst of the country, the Portuguese already expect is the worst of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u155	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, the Bureau shall record its registration. Ask the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u156	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u157	Of course, Mr. Deputies. I was just asking you to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u158	That's right, Mr. President. I just wanted to say that the intervention that has just been made, because of its free and deproposing offensive content, is neither worthy nor worthy of any counterpoint on the part of this bench. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u159	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u160	Do you wish to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u161	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u162	Mr President, of course, I cannot but give you the floor. He was just asking us to overcome this situation in a sensible way. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u163	I shall be very brief, Mr President. I just wanted to clarify what seems important to be clarified. Recently, I made the following reference: « The Portuguese, making use of your expression, (...) », of the PSD. That's what I said, and I emphasise it to be very clear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u164	You are clear, Mr. Deputies. For an intervention, you now have the floor on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The set of proposals that the CDS and PSD bring today for discussion is full of curiosity that deserves some consideration. Let's see. First curiosity: one of the draft laws says the CDS, and I quote: « The former PSD/CDS-PP coalition government put into practice an increase in the national minimum wage, after several years of freezing it, by the former Socialist Government ». It happens that the CDS forgot to say that such PSD/CDS coalition government also maintained the increase in the minimum frozen salary for three long years and, in four years, only resulted in a slight increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u166	We had the troika here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u167	Therefore, in four years of governance, the PSD and CDS maintained the increase in the minimum frozen salary for three and a half years and only a slight increase at the end of the mandate, i.e. at the end of 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u168	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u169	And now the CDS comes to say that it was only the Socialist Government that preceded the PSD/CDS government that kept the minimum wage freeze. No, sir. Members of the CDS, not only that government, it was also the PSD government and the CDS that kept the minimum wage frozen until the end of 2014! But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, however, it is always good to see the CDS recognize, as it does in the same Statement of Reasons, that the current government, in a little more than one year, has already made two increases in the national minimum wage, i.e. more than the PSD/CDS Government in a whole legislature. Second curiosity: says the CDS, and I quote, that « the parties supporting the government, BE, PCP and the Greens, tried to lead the reduction of the TSU as a compensatory measure by increasing the minimum wage, because they disagree with it ». And here, curiosity does not reside in « tried to plumbar », which is curious that there is no reference to PSD in the lead of the reduction of TSU. But you can see why the CDS is right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u170	It's a little arrangement!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u171	In fact, the CDS refers only to parties that have dropped the TSU by discording it and therefore would not make much sense to refer to the PSD, because it would be necessary to say that the PSD has led the reduction of TSU although it agrees with it and even if it wants to extend this reduction to other sectors. It was complicated and we understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u172	This one went to CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u173	Third Curiousness: The PSD, which now expresses a great deal of concern about the social economy, was the same PSD that in the last draft constitutional review it presented in the Assembly of the Republic, proposed the repeal of Article 82. the Constitution, of which paragraph 4 refers exactly to the cooperative and social sector. The PSD, which is now concerned with legislative harmonisation for the establishment of cooperation, was the same PSD that sought to eliminate Article 85 ( 3 ). the Constitution, which refers exactly to the cooperative and social sector. Fourth Curiousness: the CDS-PP now proposes to reduce the minimum amount of special payment to €500, but in 2013 the Government that the CDS was part proposed to increase the minimum amount of special payment to €1750. Now, this is not just a curiosity, it has another name which, of course, I will not mention. On the PSD proposal, to raise tax benefits for large companies and large economic groups, to which the current government has put an end, and well in our view there would appear to be no great curiosity or surprises, because it was always what the CDS and the PSD defended and practiced when they were in government. It follows that the PSD that intends to raise these tax benefits to the large economic groups is the same PSD that considers that the increase in national minimum wage is excessive. Still, there is no curiosity here, because we all know what the real concerns of the PSD, which are once again reaffirmed in this proposal. What is true is that the PSD intends to raise tax benefits to large economic groups, but considers the increase in the minimum wage overdue. What is true is that the PSD intends to extend the reporting period of tax damages from large companies to 12 years, but when we talk about increasing the minimum wage it says it is excessive. What is true is that the PSD proposes an additional reduction of IRC for large economic groups, but considers an exaggeration of the increase in national minimum wage. Even with this proposal, the PSD wants to extend the exemption from dividend tax and added value to large companies, but does not want to hear about the increase in national minimum wage. So it's all said! It is only to record the coherence of the PSD, which continues to defend the interests of large companies and large economic groups. For us, we say « no », and we say « no », because four years of PSD / CDS government, to do business and to bless large economic groups and large companies, with declines from IRC and other tax benefits, and then to compensate those bonuses with cuts in pensions and wages of those who work, it was too long and too heavy a time to repeat again. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u174	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are of fundamental importance in our country. Its weight is decisive in the national business structure, being responsible for creating and maintaining a considerable part of employment. Recognizing and valuing this reality, the CFP assumes support for these companies as an integral part of the axis of patriotic and left-wing policy: the defense of the productive sectors and of national production. A support that, as the PCP has repeatedly stated, is inseparable from improving the living conditions of workers and the people, since the loss of purchasing power is the main factor that negatively affects the activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u177	Support that cannot fail to incorporate a tax component, which is inserted into an alternative tax policy that breaks with the scandalous promotion of large capital and relieves the tax burden on workers and pensioners, as well as on small entrepreneurs. The country needs an alternative tax policy to ensure public investment and the social and economic functions of the State and to promote choices that guarantee a fairer and fairer division of national wealth. A tax policy that adequately taxes large capital, through capital and real estate taxes and financial transactions, due to an increase in the IRC rate for large companies, the fight against aggressive tax planning by economic and financial groups, the increase in the IRC rate for higher income and the increase in the taxation of luxury goods and services. A tax policy which, at the same time, relieves workers and families, as well as micro and small businesses, with the reversal of the tax collection carried out by the former Government within IRS, the reduction of taxes on the consumption of essential goods, the reduction of IMI and the extension of its exemptions, the creation of a lower rate of IRC for small businesses and the elimination of special payment on account. For this latter objective — the elimination of the special payment on account — the CFP has made a decisive contribution over the years. The State budget for 2017, on a proposal from the CFP, includes a standard that provides for, in addition to the immediate reduction of the minimum value of the CFP, its replacement by 2019 by a new scheme based on the application of technical-economic coefficients by economic activity. Thus, the special payment on behalf will soon disappear, not by means of an opportunistic proposal from the CDS, but by means of a long and committed intervention from the PCP in defense of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u178	An intervention which the CFP will continue to develop within the framework of its proposal for a patriotic and left-wing policy at the service of Portugal and Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the action of the former PSD/CDS Government has had dramatic consequences for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In the face of an increasingly weakened internal market, the result of workers and the people's impoverishment policy, and subject to increasing fiscal pressure, both at the level of the tax burden and at the level of compliance with tax obligations, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises had to « make up their hearts » in order to survive the disastrous governmental action of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u180	Today, these two parties, in opposition, compete fiercely against each other to show who is best friends with small businesses. Unfortunately, wanting to spend a sponge on the past, wanting to clear up their heavy responsibilities because of the difficult situation in which so many small businesses are located, PSD and CDS do not hesitate to present now proposals of a diametrically opposed sense to that of their government option. Does the CDS think that small entrepreneurs have already forgotten that in 2013, when the IRC reform, the PSD/CDS government proposed an increase in the minimum PEC value to €1750? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u181	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u182	No, they didn't! They know very well that the concern of the CDS is not with small businesses but with the economic groups and large companies, which served so well when they were in government. They know very well that the positions of the CDS today are pure political opportunism and that if the CDS had managed to remain in the government it would continue the way of favouring the big capital at the cost of taxing micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u184	Are the CDS and PSD available to support more appropriate tax measures of large capital, a counterpoint necessary for fiscal stimulus measures to small businesses? No, of course not! And if there were any doubts, it would be sufficient to look at the proposals that PSD and CDS bring about today's debate, insisting on favouring economic groups and large companies as a result of the increase in the deadline for reporting losses, the additional reduction in the IRC rate and the extension of the exemption from dividend and capital tax. These proposals for the promotion of large capital are the real proposals of the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u186	... these were the proposals which these parties made when they were in government; these are the proposals that constitute their ideological choice. Support measures for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are presented when opposed, are only an opportunistic front to attempt to deceive the delinquents. This CDS stance is not surprising. in reality, nothing else was expected from a party that makes the dissimulation and the opportunistic turnaround the way of being in politics. Before the 2011 legislative elections, the CDS, in opposition, was said to be the party of the taxpayers ; arrived at the government, imposed the most brutal increase in taxes that there is memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u187	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u188	It was said that the pensioners' party; arrived at the government, infernised the lives of the older people—cut the retirement pensions, made access to health care difficult, imposed the law of evictions. It was said that the farm party; it arrived at the government, forced the small agriculture to sign up for finance in order to sell some cabbage, while also favoring the large agribusiness. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] No one believes that the CDS is presenting these proposals today by denying its past, recognizing the damage it has caused to the country, workers, reformers and small entrepreneurs. No one believes that the return of the CDS to the most blatant demagogy means that it abandoned the options it helped to sink the country in the four years in which it placed itself at the service of the troika against the interests of the workers, the people and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u190	from here we tell the CDS to stop hiding. They openly assume your options; they openly admit that your dream is the return to the past, to the policy of exploitation and impoverishment, which they have applied so diligently, by hand with the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u191	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, by the will and proposal of the CFP, the support measures for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises will continue to move forward. in the special payment on account, in tax obligations, in access to credit, in costs with production factors, we will continue to propose the measures that these companies need to overcome the problems that affect them, to ensure the development of their activity and job creation. We will continue to defend measures for a fairer fiscal policy, at the service of the country's development and progress. We will continue to defend these proposals within the framework of the alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that the country needs, knowing that for these national development and progress objectives we do not have either the PSD or the CDS. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u193	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Special payment on account is one of the most transitory but also more eternally than the tax instruments available to the State. It was created by the PSD government and remains a logic to combat fraud...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u195	by the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u196	It's true. It's good to remember. As I was saying, the special payment on behalf was created by the PSD Government and remains in a logic to combat fraud, but it is assumed that it has been created and maintained to ensure that tax evasion is substantially reduced. Today, we live a very peculiar moment in this Plenary: when, in opposition, the CDS propagates the need to suspend the PEC, as it did in 2009, or as now when it suggests its reduction without more, taking into account no logic of fiscal justice or, even, the Portuguese economic reality, we are no longer surprised. In fact, we all know that the right hand, when it is in government, is seriously affected in its memory and commitments with citizens — we all know — and that only when it is alerted to the serious memory failure, it regains consciousness. We were able to perceive these fluctuations of right position, or in opposition, or in power. In this case the CDS, its inaction under the theme of the CFP to provide a simplified system of taxation for SMEs, known as the transitory of the CFP, because at the time of their passage by the PSD / CDS government, neither the PSD nor the CDS have at that time endeavoured to change something in this respect, as usual, « not a straw has moved ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u198	Even more serious: when, in this passage through the Executive — it has already been mentioned, several times, but I think it is not too much to remember — they proposed an increase of the PEC, imagine, from 1000 € to 1750 €,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... once again without any concern about fiscal justice or the economic and business reality of our country. With the exception of the proposal of the 2014 State Budget, we would have this reality today in the legislation in force—that is, not today, because the last State Budget has also tried to reduce this threshold. But if this proposal had become a reality, I ask the CDS if this bill would not be proposing to drop the PEC from €1750 to €500, since, in a logic of political opportunism and of very little responsibility, this has been the trend, with these fluctuations, as they are now in power, or in opposition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u199	However, I believe that we must not forget the permanent tax reduction proposals that the right, CDS and PSD, demagogically does when it is in the opposition and that once in the government, it has promoted the greatest increase in taxes that there is memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u200	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u201	The PS has always tried to stop the impulses of increasing the tax burden that the right has promoted and now, once again, cares about families and businesses. Thus, in the context of social consultation, he agreed to raise the national minimum wage and worked for an increase in social cohesion in our country, but responsibly promoted several initiatives, already during 2016, for greater fiscal justice, which have already been referred to here by the Secretary of State. Now it is important to say that convergence between companies and workers is relevant, but the government commits itself to stimulating an alternative that relieves businesses, focusing on the goal of promoting employment and wealth in our country. This is why all these proposals are, at the same time, a way of achieving the objective of reducing pressure and increasing social cohesion, with the commitment—also left here by the Secretary of State—of reviewing the simplified IRC regime and which, as has been said, will still be a reality by the hands of the current government. The objective is thus to challenge the CDS and PSD to emerge from this position of demagogic and opportunistic opposition. Since the proposed law of the Government has already entered this House, which will be discussed next week in this spirit of responsibility, we must promote this cohesion and this same spirit. That is what PSD and CDS should promote. It would be a great initiative for businesses and families, which would be very grateful to the right. It would result in greater fiscal justice and greater economic growth if we were to follow this challenge of voting this convergence with companies and families in the reduction that the Government has presented here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u202	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If anyone thought that the right had marked the debate today to bring to this Chamber proposals on employment, wages, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, on a policy for productive development, capable of withdrawing us from the delay of low wages and disqualification, he had enough time to disengage himself. What the right here today brought are basically two things: first, to insist on incentives to low wages and, second, a tax bill to large companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u205	... adding to this an attempt by the CDS to catch the left-wing package on amendments to the special payment on behalf and confirmation by the PSD — in a Parliament in which, Mr President, I would like to thank you for your comments. Ladies and gentlemen, none of us, in this Chamber, imagine living with 557 € per month—that 557 € per month is too much for others, for those who live with this value. I would therefore like to talk about each of these situations. First of all, I would like to remind you that this Parliament has already debated and rejected the reduction of TSU to employers who pay low wages. Mrs. Members of the CDS and Mr Mota Soares, not even the PSD, as has been said here, defend this measure. In 15 days I believe that Parliament will not have changed its position. This measure is wrong, because it is an incentive to low wages, and it is unfair, because it discriminates and excludes small and medium-sized enterprises and IPSS paying more decent wages, and this measure does not respond to the main problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are precisely the cost of energy-related contexts, communications or access to credit. The CDS would now like to make proposals for a debate that has already happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u206	So the debate was for the week or has it happened? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u207	Therefore, it is normal that the outcome is not quite surprising.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u209	Secondly, I wanted to talk about reducing the IRC of large companies. The CDS came to this debate giving the finger to large companies and the PSD soon said it wanted to give the arm, with the reduction of IRC to large companies. It is a very significant kind of auction about the nature and interests that the PSD and the CDS came here today. It is worth remembering that in 2012 and 2013 the PSD and the CDS were responsible for the two biggest tax increases on those who live from their work in the history of Portuguese democracy...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u211	... and combined these two colossal increases of taxes for workers with a tax bill to companies, as a result of the reform of the IRC. Today, what you're saying here is that this bill doesn't arrive and that the same parties—and, in the case of the PSD, this is explicit—that they understand that it is unsustainable that the minimum wage increases to 557 € per month—...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u212	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u213	...what a fortune! — they are the same as those who think it is normal for the State to give a tax credit of millions of euros to large companies. It is significant, because it reveals the interests that these two parties represent. Does the PSD propose any reduction in taxes on the incomes of those who live in their work? No, don't propose. Does the PSD propose any reduction in taxes on consumption? No, don't propose. In fact, it was this majority and it was the left that reduced the VAT of the restaurant. Does the PSD propose anything about the heritage? No, the only taxes that PSD thinks should be lower are taxes on profits from large companies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, although I consider this to be quite offensive, I believe that, despite everything, it is an exercise of clarity on the interests to which the PSD is cantoned. Finally, I refer to the question of support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs. Members, I believe that, in this House, everyone will know, like us, the investment survey, done by INE, in which small and medium-sized enterprises participate, where it is identified that the big brake on investment is lack of demand and bank financing, it is not the IRC rate. And what have the PSD and CDS proposed on these matters? Nothing! Nothing! Mr Marco António Costa, which began by giving confidence to the economy, and therefore to small and medium-sized enterprises, was not your austerity and obsessive impoverishment, it was precisely a decision of the Constitutional Court to restore the cuts in wages and pensions that you made against the Constitution. That is what began by giving confidence to the Portuguese economy. Who is currently responding to the main concern of small and medium-sized enterprises — which is to increase demand — is this majority, which has an income replacement strategy that has an impact on the consumption of small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, the increase in the minimum wage itself is an element that benefits domestic demand and therefore benefits small and medium-sized enterprises. And we don't stay here. It has also been mentioned here that it was this majority, and not the PSD or CDS, who began to do the work to lower energy revenues. [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Leite Ramos.]] It is this majority, and not the PSD or CDS, that will lower the amount of the special payment on account.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u214	And the special payment on account is also for large companies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u215	On wages, taxes and economics, there is nothing new in this debate: the PSD is against this increase in the minimum wage, but it has never dared to propose the parliamentary assessment of the decree which has increased the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u217	On the economic model, it is the same as always: for the right competitiveness are wages of misery to those who work, tax bills to large companies and favors to the private. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was precisely against this orientation, against this economic model, against this disrespect and this devaluation of the work that has been constituted by the current majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u218	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u219	You don't like it either, it's not new, but we'll keep doing our job. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u220	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: during this afternoon, we had a discussion on several initiatives and I would specifically like to look at the projects that relate more directly to the solidarity sector, the third sector, the IPSS and its cooperation contracts. Both bills, in addition to involving an increase in expenditure and raising doubts—as has already been raised in relation to the working standard of the State budget—, intend to legislate on a subject which is the subject of a door office, which is the subject of negotiation with the partners and, in fact, has already been discussed in this same Chamber. But when we talk about IPSS and third sector, these projects reveal the same problem as always the right has when discussing this topic. First of all, the right one speaks and the left one actually does. And when I say that the left one does, I am not talking about the reinforcements of social support, I am not talking about PARES, which has already been done by previous socialist governments and which was the largest investment in social equipment in our democratic history. And the CDS, for example—and does no less! — it therefore calls for an increase of no less than 2 %, plus the rise in inflation rate and the rise in the contribution rate to the social sector. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know who didn't do this: it was the CDS, it was the CDS, and it was the PSD, when they were in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u222	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u223	Therefore, we note your new ambition, but in fact, we believe that you are eventually going a little too far in your own ambitions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: I didn't exactly bring an A3 size, as the deputy Assumption Christians usually do—I think even with an A4 size you can see the chart—,... [[At the moment, PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro displayed a chart on the value of the cooperation agreements.]] ... but I would like to remind you that, in the total volume of cooperation, the PS, in just over a year, has increased more value than you have increased in four years. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u224	We are talking about more than EUR 1400 million in total the value of cooperation agreements. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] I think it can be seen, but these data are public, were made available by the government, within the Committee on Labour and Social Security. But there's another problem, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen: the right, in this area, continues to confuse the cause with the consequence. We dialogue and work very closely with the social sector, work and dialogue very closely with the IPSS, but we do not understand that this sector exists for a deliberate strategy of withdrawal from the state of social intervention,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... deresponsibility and inducing a more supportive logic, yes, generating dependence and less individual freedom with which the right usually fills its mouths in these debates. These answers exist as a result of the absence of the State, eliminating gaps where they exist, and not as an ideological strategy to withdraw the State from this sector. For example, with the social canteens, you have multiplied — 840! — without knowing the criteria for territorial planning. And we know today that it is a more expensive and ineffective model than the alternative that the government is defending and implementing. But the problem is before the social response itself, the problem is before the need for social support itself. It is that there is a structural incapacity on the right to realize that it is possible to maintain a certain level of social responses but that it is mandatory — it is mandatory! — improve protection on the basis of social benefits. Mrs. Members, there were more elderly people in need of support, for example, food support in the social canteens, because you cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly and increased poverty among the elderly. There were more children in need of support from the social sector because you cut the family allowances. More Portuguese needed support because you cut income, reduced social minimums, reduced the coverage of the RSI (social income), increased unemployment and increased poverty. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have increased your needs because you have failed, not because you have fulfilled. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] We therefore say that this debate is a good time to evaluate cooperation agreements. It is, in fact, what the IPSS want, that is, what Lino Maia of the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions asks. It is necessary to assess, it is necessary to stop, it is necessary to end these massive transfers of State responsibilities to more and more social sectors. So we're evaluating and we're going to present answers. I shall conclude by saying that the PSD, which emerged in this debate so concerned with the support for the IPSS, should be concerned to read the minutes of the debate on 25 January, in which the PSD led these support for the IPSS... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... against the view that the PSD itself defended, based on a strategy of radicalisation and political survival of its leadership. So, we don't turn our backs on the IPSS, we have a more transparent model, we have a model that has more predictability... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u225	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. For this model and for the implementation of this model, more stable, more durable, more transparent, we do not need the demagogy on the right and so we will chum your projects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u227	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most relevant statement of this debate may probably have gone unnoticed. This statement was made by Mr Marco António Costa, when in his speech he finally recognized that, after all, the PSD and CDS were even removed from the government, and they were - in legitimate terms, and that the political solution that resulted from the new correlation of forces is a legitimate solution, which ends up retraining the PSD to the role it has played here today. But this statement is not only relevant to the recognition that the PSD ultimately makes the need to reverse the speech it had made over the course of this almost year and a half in relation to the illegitimateness of the political solution and the illegitimateness of the exercise of government functions. It is relevant because it fits the proposals that the PSD and the CDS presented here today, moreover, by fulfilling that warning that Paul Portas left here at the beginning of this Legislation, when he spoke of the « drinker of measures ». The gentlemen. Members will certainly be reminded of the reference that Paul Portas made at the time to the drinker of measures. What the PSD and CDS have brought us here today is a measure drink, a real measure drink that meets two objectives. On the one hand, it fulfils the objectives of the PSD and the CDS go back to the previous policy that has so much harmed the country, both damaged the economy, the workers and the Portuguese people, with more benefits particularly to the large economic groups, such as the tax measures presented here in relation to the IRC, or measures to harm workers, damage to social security, damage to the State budget, such as the measures to reduce the TSU. A second objective which is also met with these proposals for a true drinker of measures is to whiten the responsibilities of the PSD and the CDS for the policy they have made for four years, making them forget the responsibilities and, in many circumstances even, the position exactly contrary to that which they have defended here. Moreover, we are very curious to hear the CDS still explain the kind of excommunication it made today to Secretary of State Paulo Nuncio, who determined the position of the CDS in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u229	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u230	I'm done now, Mr. President. The CDS made a genuine excommunication from the former State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Paulo Nuncio, because this State Secretary defended here, on behalf of the CDS and the Government, in 2013 the increase of the minimum limit of the PEC to 1750 €. We are waiting for the CDS to justify this resurgence of views today. Finally, Mr President, I would like to leave a final note of curiosity regarding contradictions. We are very anxious to see if today the PàF (Portugal to the Front) coalition — the only coalition that really existed in our country to form government — will remain aligned in the vote on all the proposals, giving evidence, after all, of the political stability that has so much affected the country and with which they wanted to continue to harm this country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u231	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Salaries are paid for the wealth generated by companies and employers' institutions and salaries can and should rise with the growth of that wealth. Without increasing wealth in a society, income does not increase to distribute. But if this is true, what is happening in Portugal with the increase in wealth?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u233	It's increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u234	In 2016, the first year of the left government, the first year of management, what happened to the increase in wealth? Slow down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u235	Slow down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u236	What happened to the increase in exports? Slow down! What happened to the reduction in unemployment in 2016? Slow down! [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u237	Slow down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u238	When we needed to be accelerating the creation of wealth to accelerate the increase in wages, all this slowed down! It is, but not only the growth of the economy slowed down how the investment fell! And the creation of new companies, fundamental to creating jobs and wages, has fallen! It's true, the investment has fallen! We have heard recently the master of management propaganda, João Galamba, say: « Well, there is a 2016 survey saying that companies want to invest more». They wanted to invest more. But do you know what happened to that intention of investing more?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u239	What happened? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u240	The same thing that happened to the intention of the socialist macroeconomic scenario to make the country grow more: they torn her, they sank, they disappeared! Entrepreneurs buried the expectations and intentions to invest before your government. Therefore, the real statistical investment measured in the country in 2016 fell, when in the previous year, in 2015, and also in 2014, it grew—and grew more!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u241	The Portuguese are better, the country is better!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u242	Why did the economy slow down, after all?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u243	He's speeding up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u244	Why did this happen when all the international circumstances helped us? It was the euro that dropped, it was the monetary policy of the ECB ( European Central Bank ) to help, the price of oil to be reduced...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u245	The price of oil is rising!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u246	... and our main business and business partners growing more than we, especially our main partner, the Spanish neighbor. What has changed and what has been different in Portugal? Your decisions, your politics, your reversals! [[PSD applause.]] Because with us the economy was growing more, the investment was growing more, the exports were growing more, at a better rate. [[Rice from the State Secretary for Tax Affairs.]] Why did that happen? And it is not just us who say so, because this week the OECD said that "structural reforms have been. Do not keep on seeking. ” But now, to not seem that this is a conversation just outside or some, in Portugal, that may be more aligned with the PSD,... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... a little aligned with the PSD said a few weeks ago: « The explanation for the good performance of the labour market in Portugal, which began in 2014, can only be attributed to the reform of labour law. Do not keep on seeking. ” Who said that? The ex-communist and current socialist suspect Vital Moreira! [[Ah!...]] [[Yells and protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u247	Yes! You don't need warnings, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have not missed any contributions and here we are again here today to see if you, at least the Socialist Party, return to reformism, return to contributions, as in IRC, a fundamental contribution, one of the many important reforms, which — no doubt! — from the first year of operation in 2014 and 2015, it has generated more economic growth, more investment and now that those rich companies, after all, paid much more taxes. We reformed IRC and companies pay much more IRC. In 2015, they pay more 1000 million than in 2012, more 800 million than in 2010. We reformed and the economy grew, employment grew even more, unemployment fell further. With you, slow down! But, Mr President, there are two doubts. The first is this: whether or not it is confirmed — since we are talking about reformism — that the Socialist Party, the Government, has agreed with social consultation not to reverse labour reforms? We want to know the truth this time: is there a compromise or not? Attention, that the compromises are like cats with the tail outside—the truth comes to the top. We still got it yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u248	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u249	Did they or did they not compromise? Finally, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u250	You really have to finish, you've already exceeded your time widely.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u251	I will finish, Mr. President. Much was asked about the impact of this increase in the minimum wage. Is it sustainable or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u252	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u253	I shall conclude by quoting Mr President: "Of course, we do not advocate, nor do anyone, that this rate of growth of the minimum wage is a sustainable pace. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u254	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u255	Whose words are these? From Vieira da Silva, Minister of this government, said a couple weeks ago! You must return to reformism, which does good to Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the times are set at the Leaders Conference. Although there is an attempt on the part of the Bureau to balance the time given, there are times when it is no longer possible to tolerate excesses of almost 2 minutes in relation to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u258	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u259	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u260	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u261	Mr President, the Bureau asked Mr António Leitão Amaro and the PSD Parliamentary Group to distribute the report I quoted, which is very clear when it says in the first line that the investment increased 6, 5 % in 2016. They're not intentions! Therefore, by correcting what Mr Leitão Amaro said, the report is public and I ask that it be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u262	It will be distributed if you arrive at the Bureau. For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we close this debate, it is worth recalling some facts, which have been widely mentioned this afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u264	Paulo Nuncio was State Secretary for Tax Affairs!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u265	First of all, on investment numbers. In 2014, the investment grew by 2, 3 % ; in 2015, the investment rose by 4, 6 %. According to data from 2016, in the INE, in the first quarter of 2016 the investment goes down — repeat, down, down, minus — 2, 6 % ; in the second quarter of the same year it goes down 2, 3 % and in the third quarter it goes down 0, 9 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u266	Conclusion : down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u267	Mrs. Members, who are faced with these facts, we can have one of two attitudes: one is Mr. João Galamba's attitude, but if we are looking into the report, in the intentions of the entrepreneurs, we learn that, in reality, what is happening is exactly the opposite — in the time when the investment was growing, the intention of the entrepreneurs was not to invest and now, unfortunately, the investment is going down, the intention of the entrepreneurs is to invest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u268	Madam Member, I have to show you again that these are not intentions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u269	Mr President, this is no longer the truth, it is no longer factual, it is the fifth dimension, it is the alternative reality! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Because, of two, one : or all of us here, we realize that the future of the country and the future of future generations has to do with economic growth, with the sustainability of this growth, with the wealth that the country can create or, then, we will continue to pretend that we do not have a problem and that everything is great. That's the background choice we make here. And your choices, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take this opportunity today to do something—and, yes, the reform of the IRC is not the alpha and the omega of all the investment but has a major impact on the investment, and I remember that what was agreed this year was that there was already a rate of 19 % and not 20 % —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u270	And the increase in the spill is for when?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u271	...and we take this option, or what we're doing is, on behalf of the present, mortgage the future? And we are aware that this is the decision. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the PCP, who came here to speak on tax bills and qualify as such the reform of the IRC, I would like to explain the following: tax brokerage is something called asset revaluation, which the government that you support has carried out and which will lead to one of the biggest tax bubbles not for one but for the next 10 years. The CDS wanted to revoke it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u272	And so there was no tax evasion anymore? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u273	As regards the revaluation of assets, the repeal of the tax ruling, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, is here your vote: it was against! This is your fiscal bill! And Mr. Paulo Sá has also been against, it is your tax bill! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think it's the micro and small businesses that will benefit from asset revaluation?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u274	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u275	Curious notions have been given to you from what is tax evasion and from what is asset revaluation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u276	It's so stupid that it's ridiculous! [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u277	Tell me how much the rise in the state spill is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u278	Secondly, the question whether or not it is necessary to find a form of compensation for companies and social institutions in view of the increase in the minimum wage can be two answers, and one is not, nothing needs to be done, it is all very well as it is. So, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be nothing to discuss, not this week, not next week, not even next year, everything is already discussed. Or, then, the answer is yes, there are some things that can be done, not only for this but also to help the economy. And, then, if there is and if we all agree that something should be done, why don't we do it now? That is the big question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not stop being extraordinary for all of you. Members are very concerned about companies and the economy but say, with absolute will, that they can expect, that what matters is that, in your political tactic, in this small game between PS, BE and PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u279	You're talking about PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u280	... of staging and occupying media space, nothing is done this week, that you can spend another week discussing this subject and that you occupy the main place in your staging. If in real life, because of your staging, companies and their workers are at last, it's something you don't care about anymore.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u281	You guys wanted to increase the PEC! Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u282	And what is even more extraordinary than this is that words such as « pirouettes» have been heard here too. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it really possible that you, within a few minutes, will vote against a reduction in the CFP, which you will approve within a week? Oh, my God! Is that even possible? Question: Is that not a 'piruette'? Or how are you guys? Ladies and gentlemen call to vote against one thing in a week and vote in favour of the same thing the following week? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this was a good opportunity to, once and for all, have solved this problem and we have known how to put companies, their workers, not only the real economy but the real country, not only the problems this week or this month, but the problems of the next years and future generations, first of all. We are still in time to put that first and leave it to your scenes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u283	I notice that he does not defend Paul Nuncio. Time's up and don't defend him.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u284	It's not time and the country can't waste time with your jokes with serious things. It's time now and it's time! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u285	Mr. João Galamba asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u286	Mr President, this is for the same purpose as it was for a while ago. When I use data from a report in Parliament I like to quote it correctly and this has not been done either by the PSD or the CDS. He therefore called for the distribution of the same report, which Mrs. Cecilia Meireles said she did not know at the CDS bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u287	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u288	Did Mrs Cecilia Meireles ask for the floor to ask for something to be distributed?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u289	Mr. President, I still have time...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u290	Ah, the honourable Member wants to use the time she still has. So it's to distribute words. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u291	He'll still canonize Paulo Nuncio! This is it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u292	I shall be brief, Mr President. I would ask that an OECD framework be distributed here — I suppose Mr Galamba considers it to be a credible source —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u293	Is OECD a national statistical authority? Oh, my God! Don't! It is INE, along with Eurostat!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u294	Doesn't it count? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u295	... which says the following : 2014 investment, 2, 3 %. You don't have a little sign, you mean you've grown up, do you? It's grown by two, three percent. In 2015, it grew 4, 5 %. For 2016, the estimate is 2 %, i.e. below. Mr Galamba can quote not a report but 100 reports that nothing changes this reality except your vote today. If you start to have different measures and policies, which are concerned with investment—because investment represents what the jobs of the future are—you may reverse the situation. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u296	Mr Galamba, I would ask you to let the honourable Member finish her speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u297	If you still want to believe in alternative realities...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u298	Is INE an alternative reality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u299	...and prefer your tweets to what hundreds and thousands of entrepreneurs say, sir, I'm sorry but the country won't thank you. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u300	Mr. João Oliveira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u301	Mr President, it is to ask for the distribution of a document, not taking advantage of the wave of generosity but, above all, on an issue of clarification, because in my speech I have raised an issue which has not been denied in the meantime. Therefore, I wanted page 82 of Bill No 175 / XII, submitted by the previous Government, which proposed the increase of the PEC to €1750, defended by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-09.u302	Mr President, if the document reaches the Bureau, it will be distributed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. I say goodbye to the gentlemen. Members of the Government, thanking you for your presence. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 202 presences, to which five are added, of the MPs Jamila Madeira and João Galamba, of the PS, Carlos Abreu Amorim, Helga Correia and Miguel Morgado, of the PSD, making 207 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 384 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendments to the Special Payment by Account ( amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ) ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 385 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, extending the effects for 2017 of the exceptional employment support measure by reducing the contribution rate by the employer and changing the source of funding ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 386 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Expresses its appreciation that the cooperation commitment for 2017 to be held between the Government, the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Union of Portuguese Mutualities cannot increase by less than 2 %, increasing the value of rising the inflation rate and rising the contribution rate to the social sector in the financial sharing due under cooperation agreements concluded for social responses ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 387 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduction of the IRC rate ( Amendment to the Income Tax Code of Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ) ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 393 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Income Tax Code ( IRC ), taking up measures contained in the reform adopted by Law No 2 / 2014 of 16 January ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 394 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 120 / 2015 of 30 June ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote and the vote against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens was rejected, and the CDS-PP abstained.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: from the first point there is a debate required by the CFP on collective bargaining. of the second point is the general assessment of the projects of lein.os 362 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a cooperation programme between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate ( PSD ) and 395 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs mechanisms for alerting the estate of the returned state and in ruins and allows its use by local authorities ( seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 280/2007 of 7 August 2007 ) ( BE). of the third point is the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 319 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Road Code, considering as a serious counter-ordination the stop and parking in place reserved for vehicles of persons with disabilities ( amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May) ( BE) and 320 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation for public entities with user parking facilities to ensure free parking for persons with disabilities ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 307 / 2003 of 10 December 2003 ) ( BE ), together with draft resolution No 644 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Parking guarantee reserved for persons with disabilities ( PCP ). of the fourth point there is also, without time for discussion, motion for a resolution No 37/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Genetic Tests for Health-Related Purposes, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 27 November 2008 without time. There will also be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 37 minutes.]]
