ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. We will initiate the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on employment policy under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. For the first intervention, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A country can only thrive with real citizens, a fair society and a strong economy. These are three designs that will always guide the work of the government and that depend, above all, on the creation of more and better jobs. The reduction in the unemployment rate, which in February, for the first time since 2009 has been below 10 %, and the creation of more than 150 000 jobs in one year shows us that we are on the right track. at the same time as we have seen the greatest job creation since 1998 we have achieved a particularly significant reduction in unemployment in two critical segments of the population: young people, where employment growth reached 8.5%, and long-term unemployed, whose unemployment rate fell 18 %, 6 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we still have a long way to go so that no Portuguese is denied the possibility of having a decent job, a fair wage and an opportunity to be fully accomplished, as a professional and citizen. The path of sustainable growth that we are on track does not lie in low wages and the limitation of workers' rights; rather, it goes through the re-valoration of labour rights, betting on qualifications and dignity of work. The first priority was the valuation of the minimum wage, which had already increased in two consecutive years from €505 to €557, according to the social consultation. This is an extraordinary increase of 10 % to combat inequalities and poverty among workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second dimension relevant to the dignity of work and labour relations is that of valuing social dialogue at all levels, one of the key objectives of the agreement we signed at the end of last year. This bet goes through the promotion of collective bargaining, which is already reflected in the increase of 52 % of workers covered by the collective agreements over the past year. The recent agreement in the footwear sector, which not only provides for wage valuation but also, for the first time, wage equality between men and women, should be an example for the whole country, especially because it is a sector where women's labour has a particularly relevant weight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, combating precariousness is an absolute priority to dignify work, strengthen the trust of families and consolidate the bet on life-long qualifications as a strategic vector for improving business productivity and the quality and efficiency of Public Administration. From tomorrow, and until next June 30th, workers in the public sector who perform permanent functions and who do not have the right link can submit their requests to see their work situations analyzed, duly recognized and necessarily corrected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The state must be the first to set an example, but the fight against precariousness must involve society as a whole. That is why we are also combating precariousness in the private sector, with the strengthening of the number of inspectors of the Labour Conditions Authority, improving the instruments for the recognition of effective labour relations and the protection of workers during the process of recognition. It was precisely in order to strengthen the stability of labour relations that the Government has made a reorientation of active employment policies. We have concentrated support on young people and long-term unemployed and have tightened the relationship between support granted and stable job creation through measures such as the Contract-Employment Prize, which increases the incentive at the time of winding up. The implementation of the Government's programme, such as the ladies and gentlemen, provides for the implementation of the Government's programme. Members know, the continuation of this policy with new measures that should be based on the needs diagnosed in the Green Paper on Labour Relations, which we presented last February, and based on an in-depth social dialogue. Ending precarious situations is essential to strengthen the decent working model and with rights on which a decent society should be based. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The way forward proves that the return of income to families and the replacement of workers' rights did not prevent the reduction of the deficit, neither economic growth, job creation, nor the increase in business investment, nor the competitiveness of exports, which in recent quarters have increased by 7, 7 % and 17 % respectively compared to the same periods. on the contrary, the strengthening of confidence and social dialogue improved expectations and created a favourable context for improving the economic climate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the technological and digital revolution requires us to anticipate its impact on the world of work, so as to enhance job creation opportunities and prevent the risks involved. More than ever, the challenges of the future are not overcome by the solutions of the past. To this end we have given a new opportunity for lifelong education, with the launch of the Qualifica Programme, which will cover 600 000 people by 2020. On the other hand, it is necessary to strengthen digital skills with a programme that by 2020 aims to ensure digital literacy to 50 000 active-age citizens and to convert 18 000 frameworks with low-employment graduates into new and many opportunities for digital employment. The productivity of today's world is built up with social dialogue, training, attracting and fixing qualified human resources and investing in lifelong learning that only stable relationships allow. The global centre of digital skills of Mercedes, presented yesterday in Lisbon, is the latest example that times are changing. This is how we build and build a country that no longer exports its most qualified frameworks to attract investments that create more and better jobs. That's how we're gonna keep working. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u3	We will enter the stage of requests for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister. First of all, Mr Luís Montenegro, of the PSD, is registered. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, when employment increases and when unemployment decreases is indeed good news for the country. This happens whether we are in 2017, whether we were in 2016, or also in 2014 or 2015, where the pace of job creation, either of decreasing unemployment was even more intense than what is happening today and what happened in 2016. [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u5	Mr. Prime Minister also referred to the correspondence that these numbers may have with a working reality that points to higher wages. I believe that it is also a design and a goal that the country should not forget. But in this regard, Prime Minister, he should not forget that in 2014 there were little more than 400 000 Portuguese to earn the national minimum wage and that, from 2014 onwards, and above all in 2016 and 2017, the number of Portuguese to earn the national minimum wage increased and much and today already exceeds 1 million workers in Portugal. [[PS protests.]] from which, the words of the Prime Minister are indeed beautiful, but they do not correspond to what is the real life of the country and of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, if the numbers are good, if there is the capacity of the economy to create jobs and reduce unemployment, you also have to try to understand why that is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u6	That's news!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u7	And those who in 2012 and 2013 anticipated that the reforms made in the labour market would bring more unemployment and more suffering to people's lives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u8	And they brought it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u9	...today they must blush with shame. [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u10	You must be ashamed, because the country is seeing the effort of these reforms paid, and on that, Mr. Prime Minister, I believe it is necessary to draw a lesson:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u11	The interruption of these evils!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u12	... structural reforms, strategic reforms produce results and should not be abandoned. And we hope that the screams coming from those benches are not such that they influence the government and the Prime Minister to adulterate the evolution that the labour market suffered precisely because of the labor reforms of 2012 and 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u13	You have to turn the binocular on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u14	Speaking of reforms, Prime Minister, the government and management have brought to the agenda a subject that we consider to be very relevant: the sustainability of social security. Mr Prime Minister knows that in this area the debate requires the utmost seriousness and respect for people, today's pensioners and future pensioners. Mr Prime Minister has not dealt well with this subject, he has dealt with it, sometimes with apathy, sometimes with unusual demagogy and sometimes even with electoralism. The disarray comes from the times of the election campaign, when it did not agree to form the agreement in principle before the elections, in order to be executed after the elections, whatever the government was out of this electoral act. But it also came later when the Government and the majority rejected Parliament's in-depth debate on a committee specifically set up for this purpose, a structural reform in social security. This disappointment also came in the discussion of the last State budget, at which time they rejected the PSD proposal to hold this debate. Demagogy comes when the Prime Minister does not know that in recent years more than EUR 5 million had to be transferred, in an extraordinary way, to social security so that he could have the means to satisfy his benefits. Electoralism came later when Mr. Prime Minister and this majority brought, in the discussion of the last State budget, an extraordinary increase in pensions—you can imagine! — more than half a year, one month from the elections. Mr. Prime Minister, respecting pensioners is not to treat them as electoral customers; to respect pensioners is to treat them with vision and concern for the future. So now that the Minister of the area has come to announce or pre-announce more remedies in the social security system, but in which he has also acknowledged that, in the very short term, we will have problems financing social security, I want to ask you, Prime Minister, in a serious manner and with respect for those who are present and future pensioners, the following: whether or not the government wants to deal with the future, cease being a remedy government and become a reform government and look at social security with respect for the people it deserves? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u15	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u16	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, it is not worth discussing what is indisputable. We have had a net job creation in the last year over 150 000 jobs — the largest net job creation since 1998. These are the facts. It's not worth spending more time with them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remind you that, between the government action you described here and today, there was all last year. And what happened was that, throughout the past year, his bench and, in particular, his leader predicted that the political action of this government would lead to a massive destruction of jobs. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u17	Even in May last year, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho said: « We are beginning to enter the phase when we no longer make forecasts(...). And the reality of this week..." — in May 2016 —... came to show that, from the point of view of unemployment, net job destruction is confirmed. in the first quarter of this year, the net destruction of employment was higher than the government forecast of job creation (... ). That is to say, there is a logical problem here: the measures were taken before the takeover of this government ; then there was a destruction of employment ; and now there is a huge job creation, not the result of this government's action but the result of the action of the previous government? Oh, my God! There is a logical problem here, Mr Luís Montenegro. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I think is worth focusing on, which is relevant to the future, is whether the model VV. They understood that job creation, which was low wages and the destruction of rights, was essential to job creation. And what we're trying, this year and a half, is that even though we're doing the opposite of VV. They said that it was possible to do, we had a greater job creation. We increased the national minimum wage and increased the rights of workers and, with this, we had better deficit, more employment, more private investment and more exports. Therefore, everything they said would have a negative effect did not have a negative effect. on the contrary, it had a positive effect on the economy as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It says: « Today there are more workers to earn the national minimum wage». And why? Why did people lower their income? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u18	Or why does the national minimum wage, which has increased 10, 5 %, now covers more workers? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u19	What we know is that the net income of work in society as a whole has increased by about 2 %. There was a real increase in purchasing power by around 2 % on the part of workers. Today, more people are employed, people are receiving more and, above all, those who earned less had a more significant increase with these extraordinary increases in the national minimum wage. That is the effect and this is what is happening, Mr President. And this has to do with the focus of the question on the sustainability of social security. We have often said that the reform which had been carried out 10 years ago and which continues to be an example in Europe, being systematically referred to in the European Union's sustainability studies as a positive reform, had been mainly affected by the brutal impact on the labour market than the hyperausterity that VV. Ex.a. they drove had provoked. Emigration, job destruction and reduction of wages have been the strongest attack on the sustainability of social security that the country has suffered in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the first condition to recover sustainability was to recover jobs and recover returns. Therefore, the fact that social security revenues are rising 5, 5 % shows the positive impact that job creation and income creation are having. As the Government Programme shows, we take the issue of social security very seriously. Therefore, we are complying with the law, not withdrawing from social security the resources which, in accordance with the law, must be ensured for social security. Therefore we are introducing measures to diversify sources of social security financing, as we have also recently done in the State Budget for 2017. We are therefore also discussing new measures, including initiatives by other parties in this House, to diversify sources of social security financing. There is something that is inescapable and to which we must all respond: social security must have new forms of financing, which do not depend solely on work, in order to ensure its sustainability. And for that, we are all summoned. And of course the PSD is also. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u20	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u21	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we already know that Mr Prime Minister defends an economic model that stimulates companies to pay the national minimum wage—that is the result of their vision. That is why today more than doubled the number of workers with the national minimum wage. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] We also learned that Mr. Prime Minister continues to favour remedies, social security remedies to the detriment of a strategic, structural and future vision for social security. But today, Mr. Prime Minister, it is also a day when there is, in the health sector, a medical strike and a strike of the nurses' zeal. The instability is installed in the National Health Service and the degradation of the service provided to the citizen is also a reality today. The debt in the National Health Service increased by EUR 30 million per day in 2016, and is already rising by EUR 45 million per day in 2017. The debt to the Laboratories increased in 2016, EUR 1, 5 million per day. There is a total disinvestment in health units—in fact, the fall in investment in the National Health Service in 2016 was 34 %, Prime Minister. And all this led to an exponential increase in user claims, which in 2016 was more than 24 %. That is, those who are suffering cuts in the National Health Service are people. Where is the government's full investment policy being reflected? in people's daily lives. And when people's lives are affected, of course, the lives of people who are more vulnerable and more unprotected are even more affected. So, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: do you see what you can reverse reforms like the 40-hours? Do you see what you can do to reduce deficits at the cost of blind cuts, late payments and public investment? Is this your social model and this your national health service model? A model of deinvestment, cuts, worst service and user claim? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u22	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u23	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, on social security remedies, I think it is not worth saying much more because there is a number that says everything, that it is the cut of 600 million euros, which you were defending, to introduce to pensions already paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, what we reject was constitutional normality, ensuring all pensioners what the Constitution guarantees them: security, tranquillity and trust in the contract they signed with the State, in terms of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the increase in the national minimum wage, I understand that you devalue because I have never seen you worrying about this scandalous number of the 10 % Portuguese workers below the poverty line. However, an essential instrument for the correction of inequalities and the eradication of poverty is indeed the increase in wages and, of course, the increase in national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we will continue to increase it up to €600, as the Government Programme shows, as much as it costs you, because already last year the honourable Member felt that the increase we made was too much. Therefore, it will not accompany us in the fight to raise the national minimum wage to 600 €, but we will carry this fight to the end, because it is necessary to eradicate poverty and reduce inequalities, and the wage must be a decent wage. As for the health system, it was impossible for people not to be unhappy after everything that happened in the health system in four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u24	It's now, it's now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u25	And even I, as you know, am a great optimist, believe that it was possible to restore in a year what was withdrawn in four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, what we're doing here is, yes, a reversal. We're reverting the increase in moderate rates. We are reversing the disinvestment in staff and last year we made a contract for the National Health Service of 4,000 people, among doctors, nurses and diagnostic technicians. It was the biggest doctor ever hired. We opened up new family health units and increased the number of continuous care beds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We'd like to do more? Yes! Do citizens have the right to more? Yes! Do professionals fight for more? Yes! What we're saying is, unfortunately, we couldn't restore what you saw in a day. Ex. destroyed in four years,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but we will continue to work to meet the needs we know exist in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u26	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, the cut of EUR 600 million in social security is a fiction, that you can help whenever you are in trouble. Now, the cuts in health are real! They're happening on people's day-to-day lives! They're affecting health services! And they're the cause of the health professionals' strike, Prime Minister! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Don't talk about fiction! Tell me about reality! The reality of the cuts is yours, it's from this government. And it's also from the PCP and BE, which they do like that Minister of Agriculture who came out from the side of the demonstration and went to the other side. That is what they did today: they were "crying crocodile tears" for hospitals, but those responsible for these cuts are also the gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But I would like to ask one last question, Prime Minister, an important question. Your majority seems to want to restructure the debt. And I could tell you about the contradiction that is talking about debt restructuring and at the same time wanting to lower interest rates and raise the rating of the Republic. But I'm not gonna talk about it. I shall speak of a specific question: the use of the reserves of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u28	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u29	Mr Prime Minister, when he was questioned about the possibility of the government and this majority will "put their hands" on the reserves and provisions of the Banco de Portugal to be able to have money to control public finances, he said he did not know what that was.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u30	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u31	I hope you've already had an occasion — you certainly have! — to speak to your gurus, Francisco Louçã or João Galamba, and that you have already understood what this is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u32	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u33	The country must know: Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, and his government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u34	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u35	... will they lay their hands on savings, reserves and provisions of Banco de Portugal, to hide and create more handling in Portuguese public accounts, or not? Be clear and answer objectively this question! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u36	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u37	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, you are right, the 600 million are actually a fiction, but they are only a fiction because VV. Ex.s have been defeated, they're not in government. That's why the 600 million are a fiction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u38	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u39	What is true is that hiring more 4000 health professionals is not cutting, it is increasing, and restoring 75% of the extraordinary hours is not cutting, it is increasing. And what we are doing and what we will continue to do is to continue with the negotiations, which are scheduled until September, in order to achieve a fair, reasonable and sustainable agreement with professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u40	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u41	Mr President, I shall finish, but as you will understand, I cannot fail to answer the question put by the honourable Member, so that the news does not appear that António Costa has not answered the question put by Mr Luís Montenegro. [[PS laughter.]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u42	Have they made their head yet?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u43	Mr Luís Montenegro, first of all, I would like to tell you that I am perplexed by the fact that a man with so much political experience and legal training... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u44	... confuses provisions of a company with reserves of Banco de Portugal. I'm puzzled! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u45	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u46	I am even more perplexed by the fact that you did not realize that this year the Banco de Portugal has changed its criterion of provisions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u47	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u48	... and so that in the State Budget for 2017 a forecast has already been included to increase the revenue of the State dividends as shareholders, by changing the criterion of the constitution of the provisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u49	It has already far exceeded the time, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u50	And, as far as I know, we will receive more than we had planned in the Budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u51	It's a fact, it's not new anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u52	That's 300 million more!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u53	...because dividends are superior.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u54	Mr. Prime Minister, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u55	As far as debt is concerned, I believe that today's morning auction gives peace as to the right direction that the IGCP ( Treasury Management Agency and Public Debt) and debt management policy are following and to markets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u56	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u57	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there are lies — there is no other word to say — that they are being propagated, some are evident by reality, but others, by saying more technical matters, may create confusion. I wouldn't talk about this, but let's see if we understand each other, making a very simple drawing. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u58	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u59	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u60	Take it easy, because I'll explain it very slowly, so we can understand. The reserves of Banco de Portugal are the money that Banco de Portugal has, said in a very simple way, and nobody wants to play on it; the profits of Banco de Portugal are the profits that Banco de Portugal makes with the public debt of our country, it is money that is taken from us! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] What we want is for the Banco de Portugal to act as other banks in Europe and not to withdraw possibilities from the country. That's why the Left Block hits. Trying to mix questions to try to raise fears in people can help a PSD without a political program, but does not favor either your credibility or the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On the other hand, I must say to you that at the moment, the biggest problem is that the reality, every day that passes, "take the carpet" to the right — even to the debt! We could not talk about debt, because the collapse was there, and see: debt proposals are presented, look forward to the problems and debt is issued with lower interest rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u61	That's the one! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u62	If that's all the Left Block wants, no! We are far from what we need to do. But there is one thing, which is clear: having taboos when there are problems in the country that must be solved is always the worst service to democracy. We're here to solve problems. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u63	Mr Prime Minister, another of the issues on which the reality is clearly 'getting the carpet' on the right is that of employment. We were told that rising the national minimum wage would create unemployment, but after the national minimum wage increased twice a year more than 5 % a year, we see that employment has been created. This is important and it is surely a conquest so that a country can be different, a little more just. There's so much to do, yet! If it was not true what the right was saying, that increasing wages would create unemployment, this is also the time to say that in Portugal we have the idea that it is worth a precarious job, because the other hypothesis is not having anything, it is having unemployment. For too long, we have heard here, in Parliament, every time we wanted to fight precariousness and give contracts with rights to those who work, the right to say: « Better a stage than nothing! , « Better a bag than nothing! "Better a term contract than nothing! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This, as those who say, "Workers are afraid to claim your rights, because, if they do, it is unemployment that awaits you! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It's a lie! We know that it is a lie and we know that the path made proves that it is protecting wages, that it is protecting the rights of those who work that the economy improves and that the country is a little more fair.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u65	Mr Prime Minister, this morning in the Committee on Labour and Social Security, important amendments to a law to combat precariousness in private were adopted in the specialty. We expect this majority to be reproduced here in the plenary, and that this important mechanism should be law to combat the abuse of precariousness in the private sector. By the way, I would like to ask you about the fight against precariousness in the public sector, a process that has been delayed: the report has been delayed and the procedure has been delayed. It is supposed to be available at the Government Portal tomorrow that all precarious public service workers will be able to access to start their binding process, and I ask you whether this time is actually going to be fulfilled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u66	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u67	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, did well to highlight two facts of the greatest importance. First of all, it is important to clarify that when we talk about provisions, we are not talking about the reserves of Banco de Portugal. It was, in fact, a shocking demagogy how this game was used on reserves, knowing that, in the subconscious of the country's collective, the idea of gold reserves preserves a very great importance as an essential factor of security. However, there is no proposal in the report to amend, to reduce reservations ; on the contrary, what is proposed is even an increase in Bank of Portugal's own reserves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another thing, completely different, is the application of the Bank's profits: what is constituted as a provision, to meet needs and risks, and what is distributed to shareholders as dividends. This is an exercise that Banco de Portugal does, as any other company does. What was found was that Banco de Portugal's policy was much more conservative than that of congeneral banks and that Banco de Portugal was governed by an assessment that the market itself does not risk the Portuguese debt. It would, in fact, be an extremely negative sign to the markets which the Banco de Portugal had given. This part of the report, which has now been discussed, has been put forward by the Banco de Portugal, which has already changed its criterion of provisions. And the dividends that are going to be paid to the state this year already have a translation of this result. Secondly, with regard to the minimum wage, it is not only the impact on employment that has not been negative, the right also said — and that was, in fact, the great model of competitiveness on the right — that for the Portuguese economy to be competitive, we had to have low wages and destruction of rights. What we have been checking is that exports have increased by more than 5 % last year and that the figures now known represent a 17 % increase in exports in 1. this year's quarter, comparing homologous periods, which means that the competitiveness of the economy no longer rests on low wages and the destruction of rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, the competitiveness of the economy is based on innovation and, therefore, it is innovation that we must invest. For innovation, we need qualified human resources, and for qualified human resources, we cannot have precarious work. Precarious work prevents skilled workers and no one invests in lifelong training, neither on the company's side, nor on the worker's side, if the relationship is precarious. This investment in lifelong training presupposes that there is stability in working relationships and that is why combating precariousness is good for everyone: it is good, firstly, for the workers themselves, because it has to do with their dignity; it is essential for the families of these workers, because it is a confidence that is projected in the ability to consume, either in the capacity to form a family, or in the ability to contribute to change our demographic curve; but it is also essential for the quality of the services provided and for the productivity of the companies themselves. Precarious workers are a negative factor for productivity; mobilised, skilled, well-trained workers are the best contribution we can make to improving the competitiveness of our companies. So if we want a better economy, we need to have less precariousness and greater stability in working relations, this is where we have to move forward. The honourable Member asks me whether we are even going to meet the deadline for opening up the process of assessing the situation of precarious workers in the civil service tomorrow. Madam Member, it would really take a great deal of luck if what is planned today would not happen tomorrow. So—only because I have to admit that the devil can hide somewhere, from a theoretical point of view—with the exception of a computer failure, a power failure or some such problem, but tomorrow opens the deadline for workers in a precarious situation in the State to be able to ask for the assessment of their situation and start their process of integration into the State frameworks, as they have the right, if the functions correspond to permanent needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u68	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u69	Mr President, Prime Minister, the information that tomorrow at the Government Portal will be possible for a precarious worker of the State to sign up to begin its binding process is important, it is important for the expectation of each of these workers and of each of these workers and it is important, surely, because we are convinced that it is by the massive accession of these workers to this process that there are guarantees of transparency and that no one is left behind. But we're never happy with what it's done when we know we still have such a big way to do it. So, Prime Minister, let me tell you, I am glad that the process begins tomorrow, but, as you know, there are workers out of this process, particularly teachers who have been hired for so many years. Therefore, know that we are here, not only to follow this process but also to make the way for teachers to have access to the binding they should have. It is unacceptable for a country to have tens of thousands of teachers hired for years and years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u71	Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to speak to you about public health services. Today, we have a health strike and we have not yet heard the Minister of Health. And I think there are three simple questions that anyone in this country would like to ask. Any of us, if you have a problem, will you want to be cared for by a doctor who is already doing emergency service 18 consecutive hours? Isn't it time to change this reality? How can we explain that nurses hired by the influenza contingent and still needed in hospitals — hospital officials say they need them — do not see their renewed contracts to occupy the jobs they need every day? And how is it that in a country where doctors are missing we can have young doctors without access to the specialty? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u72	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u73	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the Minister of Health has not spoken, the government has not spoken and we will not speak until the strike is over. The strike is a constitutional right, it is a legal right, it is a right of the workers we must respect, and the worst thing the government can do during a period of strike...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u74	It's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u75	... is to speak on the subject of the strike, because it must not, in any way, condition its course. After the strike, we'll talk. Madam Member, we obviously share your concern about the concern of all Portuguese people regarding improving health services. That is why last year we started to reverse the investment that was made for four years. last year, it was made the biggest contract of doctors that had ever been made in the National Health Service. as a whole, we hired 4,000 professionals: doctors, nurses and technical staff, in particular diagnostics. Is that enough? It is insufficient, but as you well know, with regard to the whole of the Public Administration, we have had the need to meet at the same time various needs, a cross-sectional and priority, which is the replacement of salaries to all the state frameworks. This measure was adopted last year and was fulfilled. At the same time, we changed the schedule, with the replacement of the timetable that had been unilaterally changed in the previous legislation. All of this has created global pressure on finance and we have to manage. We need to make this compatible with the specific needs we have in each sector, such as the security forces, the teaching system, including the auxiliaries, in the health system. So, what we have to do is go to meet these needs according to the capacity we have, so as to ensure that we will not put ourselves in a situation of those gentlemen, PSD and CDS-PP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u76	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u77	... to return to the progress that we have been making over this year and a half and that we must continue to do everything we commit to the Portuguese, in the Government programme, and also, in particular, in the joint positions we have signed with you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u78	You also have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u79	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Budgets are choices, like everything in politics. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] And there was a clear choice of contracting the expenditure to achieve deficit targets far beyond those that had even been planned by the government, at the first moment, when the State Budget was made. And, therefore, it is good not to be confused about the way that is being done. The Left Block has participated, has made proposals, has collaborated on a path that halts impoverishment in Portugal, either through income of people — wages, pensions — or in the protection of the social state. But we do not deceive ourselves about the real conditions in which the country is, a very unequal country, very unfair and where there is still much to do. And let us not be deceived, if sectors so essential to our lives, such as education or health, today have the capacity to respond is because of the investment they have had many years ago, because for a long time they haven't seen enough for their daily expenses. The education budget is currently below 6 % of GDP and that of health is very little above it. There is no significant change in the response capacity of the social state and the National Health Service, which is the pride of this country, can become a serious problem if this trend is not reversed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u80	These are choices, and the Left Block fights for choices that protect public services. On the other hand, if we say that it is necessary to respond to those on strike today—and we know that the strike is so complicated for users who need the National Health Service—it is because we also know that these claims defend the National Health Service itself. It is necessary to answer them and not to realize that this is an awkward thing or something that the government can overcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u81	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u82	I conclude, Mr President, by bringing only one subject in very short 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u83	Mrs. Member, 30 seconds is too much, see if you can do it in 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u84	Of course, Mr. President. This week a year ago a draft resolution was approved in the Assembly of the Republic, recommending to the Government the creation of the status of the informal caregiver. So many people in this country, because this is one of the countries with the least necessary care coverage...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u85	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u86	In conclusion, Mr President, saying that many people in this country are forced to leave their jobs to accompany their mother or grandfather who has Alzheimer's or a similar disease. It's been a year and these people still have no status and no protection. Mr. Prime Minister, this is unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u87	Mr Prime Minister does not have time to answer to the honourable Member, but he will certainly do everything possible to try to answer these questions in another context. Thus, to put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u88	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister has brought us here today the problem of employment and, of course, the CDS, when it checks unemployment or increases in employment, is satisfied because this is positive for our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u89	Of course we understand that this was a path that had been taken, and I have even resolved to compare the current rate of decline in unemployment and job creation with the previous rate and, compared, not to disappoint those who expect me to show pictures, I leave here several for consultation and good analysis of the government —,... [[PS and PCP rice.]] ... I can tell you that, in fact, in the recent past, it has even been at a faster pace than it is now. Table 1 has the quarterly job creation, which, as you can see, has been at varying rates, but, in any case, better in the past than at present, and Table 2 has the quarterly change in the unemployment rate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But in order for this to progress on a better path and at a faster pace, Prime Minister, I believe that stability in labour reforms is essential. Question: today, Mr Prime Minister, can you ensure that there will be stability in labour reform, which has not been touched so far, but which always has consistent threats on the side of its partners? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u90	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u91	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I did not bring you, but I am going to bring you, the collection of the graphics that Mrs Deputy used to show. But here I have a photograph of you, still last year, explaining that thanks to the Government of the Left — and it was quite clear that it was the PS, the Left Block and the CFP, that you forgot about the Greens, unfortunately — there were fewer than 17 000 jobs. Mrs. Member, there are another 150,000 jobs, you see? Oh, my God! This is the reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u92	They're not on the chart!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u93	Mrs. Member, keep this graph, because it may come as a useful one of these days. [[PS, BE, CFP, The Greens and the Minister for Finance.]] As far as labour legislation is concerned, our position is known from the Government's programme on what needs to be changed and what should be kept stable. We have the Green Paper on Labour Relations under discussion within the framework of social dialogue. The priorities we have set out are very clear: combating precariousness and valuing the stability of working relationships, and I am very pleased that not only is more employment being created as, above all, more stable employment is being created. What we found was that there was an increase of 4, 8 % of contracts without end and a reduction of 2, 1 % of contracts over time. It is not just more employment, it is not only better paid jobs, it is also more stable jobs, and this is the way we have to go on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u94	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u95	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am delighted to know that these figures are even referring to more endless contracts which have been made with more flexible legislation adopted in the previous Government, and which has not yet been amended. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u96	If that means that Mr. Prime Minister has a commitment that he will not move into this legislation, then I can tell him that he is on the right track. Now I mean, if I presented those numbers at that time, it's because they were true.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u97	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u98	Today, I could also have brought other numbers, which show the destruction of 12 000 jobs up to 44 years old. [[PS Protests and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] I can even ask you where these people went, if they went to emigration, but I thought it was not a constructive attitude, which is the one that seeks. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS Luísa Salgueiro Member's laughs.]] Mr Prime Minister, the CDS has endeavoured, in this House, to have transparency in the area of social security and to bring here a proposal for a transparency contract in the field of social security. The united Left rejected this hypothesis, did not want to know and said: "There is no problem in social security, what we want is to guarantee everything as it is and have alternative sources of funding." Today, Mr Prime Minister said that in order to ensure the sustainability of social security — I stress — to ensure the sustainability of social security — we need alternative sources of funding. And so you've assumed that something needs to be done. Question: why does it not tell the Portuguese, with transparency, what they can count on? One, two, what's the tax that's going to increase? What's the new tax you're going to raise? Or what is the tax that will increase on companies — to be true what is seen in the media — and what impact will this have on investment and job creation? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u99	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us see: both in the electoral programme and in the Government programme, the principle is that we support the diversification of sources of social security financing. We've already started it with the IMI supplement. There are other forms under study and, of course, they will not cease to be done without the Member being involved, and we hope that they will have their support, because, if she is so concerned with the sustainability of social security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u101	Transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u102	... will certainly be available to contribute to strengthening social security structures. Now transparency is complete as the accounts of our social security are not only public but also verified by the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u103	That's not what I was talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u104	Moreover, the study regularly published by the European Union on the sustainability of social security is quite reassuring about the future of our social security. Now, of course, no one can ignore, I believe, the changes that the labour market is necessarily going to have over the next few years in a very sharp way, and this implies that we have more and more sources of funding than those that fall exclusively on the worker and on the employer, depending on the employment contracts they have. It is necessary to diversify, it is necessary to find other criteria. This week the CFP presented a proposal and the Minister for Labour spoke on other possibilities, we have been studying and it is a reflection that we think is useful to be made, not because there is some emergency but because it is useful for the country, and we would also like to hear some idea of the CDS on the subject. [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u105	With pleasure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u106	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u107	Mr President, Prime Minister, the ideas of the CDS on this matter are very clear, they have been rejected in this Parliament... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... and they were a basis for transparency to realize why Mr. Prime Minister says there is no problem and, in the same sentence, says that there is a need to find other sources of funding. It is necessary to understand how these things get together in the same sentence, and this is only being shown to the Portuguese, with the level of discounts they have today, how much is expected to receive in the future. It is not a question of sustainability, it is a question of knowing what value you will receive for your pension. We will certainly have the opportunity to return to this discussion and, after all, to know who will pay this bill, what costs and what impacts it will have. But, Mr. Prime Minister, this is a special week, is the week of the papal visit,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u108	...and I want to be particularly constructive. [[PCP laughter.]] With regard to the ideas of the CDS, given that also this week your Government has presented the proposals for the enlargement of the Metropolitan of Lisbon, I must say that I have already written on March 30 of this year—some of the more distracted elements of your bench have not noticed—about the ideas of the CDS for the Metropolitan, but, so that there is no doubt, I will bring you a proposal that I would like to see discussed and analysed by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u109	Come here to campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u110	This is because, as we both know so well, if we want to solve in depth the problems of the city, the problems of transport and traffic, we need to bet on collective transport. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, what I propose is this: it is not just two stations, which do not solve anything, it is to take the Metropolitan to grow to Bethlehem, to Loures and also to Sacavem, closing several internal points. [[PCP protests.]] Dir-CL will--me: it's ambitious! It is! It is realistic in the medium term, of course. There is a desire to find funding, particularly Community funding, and this can be done. So I want to know what you are available to discuss this matter, since you are Prime Minister and want to keep the Metropolitan in the sphere of government, I didn't want to pass it to the City Hall. So now I have to ask you about this. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u111	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to allow this debate to continue, normally and on a regular basis. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u112	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, allow me a small part: I did not find myself very loyal to take advantage of the absence of Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho to talk about this moment of the campaign to the House of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is with great pleasure that we know of your contribution to the future of the metro network in the city of Lisbon. As you know, this year we commit ourselves to implementing all investment projects that were negotiated and funded from the previous government, because it is essential that there be continuity in the implementation of the major infrastructures and to present in the next year in the Assembly of the Republic, what we consider to be the major investments by post 2020, so that it can be discussed here. We want it to be approved by a two-thirds majority, so that what is structural investment for the country, and that does not run out in a term of office of a legislature, is the subject of great political-party consensus so that, once and for all, it seems, in the country, with this situation, very regrettable, that it is the majority who is able to change the public works plans of the previous majority. We have not done so, we will not do so and we would like what is now approved to be funded by post 2020 is likely to be supported by any government and by any majority, because that is how, responsibly, we can plan our future. Now, indeed, Mrs Deputy, I will not do anything in this mandate which is no longer financed previously negotiated within the framework of Portugal 2020, because, if you do not have funding within the framework of Portugal 2020, it is simply not a nice doll to present here, in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u113	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u114	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is precisely for me to remind you of your willingness to have an extended agreement for public works that I show you the vision of the CDS for this matter and to tell you that, of course, this must be presented in time to arrange the necessary funds, particularly in the Community funds, but not only because, of course, the forms of financing can and should be thoroughly studied. Now, what I can assure you is that either there is trace, horizon and ambition for the Metropolitan of Lisbon or the problems of the Metropolitan Area will not be solved, and responsibility is in itself, since it wanted to continue with the Metropolitan in its sphere. Therefore, our proposal is 20 new stations for the metro station in Lisbon and I hope that they can be studied planned, financed and treated. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u115	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let the honourable Member continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u116	I don't understand the problem! I must say that I live very well with well-prepared, funded and executed works, and that of Alqueva speaks for himself. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the room. I would ask you to remain silent in order for the honourable Member to continue to build on the issues which the Government is putting. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u118	Yesterday, the PS bench said there were no ideas for the metropolitan, but fortunately, the ideas are being prepared and studied for a long time. Mr Prime Minister, I did not want to end this debate without asking you very quickly, because I have very little time to do what I plan to do in the health sector. I have visited hospitals, from north to south, from the country, have talked to health professionals, have talked to creditors in the health sector and have brought this matter here several times. The government's choice was clear, it was to increase debts to deal with the question of the work factor of professionals, but the fact is that this is not being seen, people complain, consistently claim, explaining that there is a large degradation of services and that there is no way to function.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u119	Mrs. Deputy, would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u120	The Minister of Health does not speak to the sector, I wonder whether the Prime Minister will or will not speak to the sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u122	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, I give you only one number: 100 million! You know what 100 million is? [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] No, 100 million is the number of passengers that the Metropolitan and Carris lost in the city of Lisbon, while you were Minister. I repeat: 100 million! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member will remember that she was not only Minister of Agriculture and the Sea, for much of her term of office she was also a minister of the cities...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u123	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u124	...and, therefore, he was also minister of the 100 million passengers that the Metropolitan and Carris lost in the city of Lisbon due to its deterioration,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with the compositions to be down from six to four carriages and the paralysis of all the works that were already underway at the stations that already exist, the more open 20 stations, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u125	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u126	To conclude, I want to leave a little note: as for Alqueva, despite everything, I don't know if you remember, it was Eng. Guterres who decided and launched the work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u127	To put questions on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u128	Mr President, Prime Minister, the concern you have brought here with employment is undoubtedly a central concern of national life. Unemployment remains one of the most serious national problems. The CFP argues that it is necessary to support more the unemployed, that it is necessary to create more jobs, but also to create more jobs with more rights and better wages, with more security and better working conditions. It is necessary to take further steps in support of unemployed people, for example by reversing the 10% cut in unemployment benefit made by the previous Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u130	It is necessary to create more jobs, supporting the productive sectors and national production, so that this job is lasting and corresponds to the country's development needs. But there is also a need for rights of employment. Progress has to be made in combating precariousness in the private sector, for example, with the proposal from the CFP to give executive strength to the decisions of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) in the recognition of labour contracts. Progress has to be made in combating temporary work, the rights of shift workers, the general increase in wages and the national minimum wage. And there must also be progress on collective bargaining. last week, we brought here a bill that was plummeted with the votes of the PSD, the CDS, but also the PS. in this debate, we put a question, which today we would like to see answered, about the concrete situation of collective bargaining in Transtejo and Soflusa. These are two public transport undertakings which have their business agreements negotiated between the parties and signed but await the decision of the Ministry of Finance. In other words, the entry into force of those agreements, negotiated and agreed, is dependent solely on the decision of the Government. Mr Prime Minister, when will the government make the decision that is missing so that the agreements can be published? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u131	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u132	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we share, as I said, in the initial intervention, and with the measures we have taken, the view that more and better employment is needed, with more rights, decent employment. This is due, in particular, to unlock the collective contract, and I fear we are engaged in it. That is why the agreement signed at the end of last year set a moratorium until 2018 against the denunciation of collective contracts. in fact, we've been dynamizing collective bargaining. It is not by chance that over the past year the number of workers covered by collective employment contracts has increased by 52 %. It is still a very insufficient number in relation to the one that existed before the previous contracts expired, but it is a dynamic that we are introducing. In addition, we are concluding the preparation of legislation that will allow time for the issue of extension gates to be reduced — at the moment, they last for months and we want to reduce to about 34, 35 days — so that we can extend the number of workers covered by collective labour regulation instruments. It seems to me that this is essential. In relation to the two specific cases it presented, this is a problem of compatibility between the agreement and what is foreseen in the State budget for this year. The information we have is that the necessary changes to the business agreements are practically completed, so that they are compatible with what is stated in the State budget and allow the Ministry of Finance to approve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u133	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe that the Prime Minister understands the urgent need for a positive outcome in relation to these collective conventions. Mr Prime Minister, employment issues and labour rights are essential for workers, but also for the development of the country and the struggle of workers is an element of advancement and social development. The struggle of transport workers or public administration for their rights is also a struggle for more and better public services. The doctors are on strike today, demanding the resolution of concrete problems and this struggle is also a struggle for the improvement of the National Health Service. The problems affecting doctors are the common problems for other employees of the Public Administration. They repeat, for example, in social security where the lack of workers leads to delays in care, in the allocation of social benefits, problems that are not solved with telephone service, which is also insufficient. These problems need to be answered so that public services can work better and deliver better service to users. The same is true of the public service that is provided by the General Deposit Box. The CFP has already brought this issue up in other debates and let me stress the following: the prospect of closure of agencies and banks in Caixa continues to be a concern for workers and populations. There is no better public service with fewer agencies and fewer Box workers. The situation in Almeida may be the most flagrant example of the damage caused by the closure of the Caisse agencies, in this case leaving a headquarters without that public service. But the problem repeats itself through this interior outside, with the intention of closing agencies where the populations most need them and where, of course, there will be fewer people, if public services continue to disappear. We therefore repeat, we need to reverse the decision to close agencies and keep the Box providing a service to the populations. Question : Will the Government accompany our concerns? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u135	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u136	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I partially support your concerns. I follow him in what I believe is essential: that Portugal needs, for its economy, to have a 100 % General Deposit Box, solidly capitalised, capable of providing safeguards for the preservation of the savings of Portuguese families, an instrument at the service of companies and the national economy and a stabilizing factor of the financial system. I follow you, secondly, in the idea that the General Deposit Box has to have a network of balconies that ensures an integral coverage of the national territory. I also follow you internationally, either by fundamental positions for the internationalisation of our economy or by the capture of the reservations of our migrants. What we have approved and which consists of the Strategic Plan of the General Deposit Box is a restructuring that ensures that in all municipalities there are balconies of the General Deposit Box. And there are a set of criteria for determining these counters, including demand, movement and existing population. In all the municipalities there are General Deposit Box counters and there will be no reduction of jobs depending on the reduction of counters and there will be no dismissal in the General Deposit Box. The reduction in the number of workers in the General Deposit Box will be exclusively, as we have said repeatedly, either through reforms or through friendly negotiation between the Box and its workers. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, there is one point I will not follow, which is whether the Government should or should not decide on concrete decisions of the administration of the General Deposit Box. On this issue, the understanding I have is that the Government should not rule on concrete decisions of the General Deposit Box. This is because the function that we have, as representatives of the shareholder, which is the State, that is, all Portuguese, is to approve the strategic guidelines, to ensure its compliance, and to ensure that the Box has prudent management and that it implements the business plans. We cannot, nor should we, interfere in each case decision of the administration of the General Deposit Box. On this issue, perhaps we will not follow each other, but this, with all honesty, is the understanding that the Government has on its relationship with the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u137	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u138	Mr President, Prime Minister, we hope that these concerns will become material in the interests of the people. I would like to ask you one last question that has to do with tax options. A first evaluation of the asset revaluation programme and the PERES ( Special State Debt Reduction Programme ) has made it possible to verify that a limited set of large companies with taxable profits over EUR 35 million benefited from the tax reduction and this reduction is more significant in the case of the asset revaluation programme. This means that there is a reduction in revenue for the State and, no less important, a situation of tax injustice. It is an unfair situation for workers, reformers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers, fishermen, who, of course, do not understand or accept that the same — big businesses and economic groups — are favoured fiscally. With the presentation of some proposals by the CFP, we will have the opportunity to discuss the reduction of labour income taxes, whether the steps of the IRS, the deductions, the minimum of existence or other questions why we have been beaten in the last State budgets. Mr Prime Minister, the question I want to put is on a proposal from the CFP regarding the increase in the state spill over businesses with more than EUR 35 million of profits. Does the Government agree with the discussion of this proposal to correct the injustice resulting from the tax benefit enjoyed by these large companies under the asset revaluation programme and PERES? Mr Prime Minister, the size of the hedge, and because the debt issue has been standing here, I would like to tell you that for the first time the Assembly of the Republic, on the initiative and proposal of the CFP, will have a space to discuss the debt issue, with the appointment of a committee that will be part of the Committee on Budget. It is a start, it is a good help and it is the possibility that we can all express the way we want to defend the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u139	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u140	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, the asset revaluation regime was provided for in the initial version of the State budget for 2016 and was the subject of legislative authorization which the Government used and approved by decree-law. It is therefore not a last-minute measure, nor an unforeseen measure, which was included in the proposal submitted by the Government in 2016 and which was approved in the Assembly of the Republic. Just as the diploma we published in the exercise of legislative authorization was not the subject of any kind of parliamentary assessment. What was our goal with this regime? The objective was to contribute to something that is very important to create better conditions for companies to be able to invest, which is to strengthen and improve their balance sheets in order to have better access to financing conditions and to be able to invest and create jobs. This was one of the measures under the Capitalisation Programme that enabled companies to reassess their assets by valuing them and thereby increasing the weight of assets on balance sheets, and having better conditions for financing, investing and creating jobs. This, of course, involved an invention on the part of the State. And the incentive that was given was that there could be, in this reassessment, a lower rate than the amortization rate between the fourth and tenth year first. It is therefore a lengthy process and we have estimated, on the basis of the Tax Administration's data, that this is an incentive that has had a positive economic impact. The fight we have to fight for greater fiscal justice will be continued throughout the legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u141	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u142	I shall now conclude, Mr President. We are available to consider all the proposals, including the proposal within the framework of the spill. What we have to achieve is a good balance between the stability of the tax system, which is, in itself, important, and, on the other hand, better conditions for fiscal justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u143	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u144	It is this joint effort that we have made and that joint effort that we must continue to make. And with the confidence that we must have, as we have so far achieved good solutions, we will certainly be able to find good solutions for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u145	To put questions on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u146	Mr President, Prime Minister, the decrease in unemployment rate and the creation of jobs in a significant way are always good news. It is clear that numbers do not count on themselves and therefore it is important for us to assess, as already mentioned in the debate, what kind of employment is being created, because we do not want to create precarious and wage-supported jobs. In addition, it is also important to see how these numbers contribute to other national objectives that we have to have and, in particular, what contributions are these numbers to dynamize the country's interior, what employment is being created to dynamize the country's interior. I would like to tell you briefly, Prime Minister, that the fight against regional asymmetries will be a pillar of the negotiation of the Greens with the Government in the next State budget. We have said this several times: we must take this principle as a national objective and promote measures that meet the necessary solutions to combat regional asymmetries. Mr. Prime Minister, it is very sad, in a programme that the Assembly of the Republic has been developing for many years, which is the Youth Parliament, to hear young people from the Guard or Royal Village, as we heard yesterday in the Assembly of the Republic, saying that they know that their future does not pass through their land and that they know that, in order to develop the future, they will have to leave there. This prospect that there are localities that do not respond to the future of young people is deeply degrading and the government must give — and the Greens will draw the Government — concrete answers in this matter. On the other hand, Prime Minister, the government cannot remain indifferent to the strike of doctors that is taking place. The government must do exactly the opposite of what the previous government has done. In order to respond to the needs of the populations, particularly in the area of health and education, which are the social functions of the State, the previous government has completely weakened these social services so that private supply could come here to seek the answers needed to the citizens. In other words, it weakened public services to enter the private. We must do exactly the opposite and therefore strengthen public services. It is clear that the starting point where the previous Government left these essential services was very bad and it is clear that they need to be given answers as quickly as possible. What doctors are saying is that they have very precarious and degrading working conditions and the Prime Minister cannot be indifferent to this matter. Mr. Prime Minister, when doctors say they cannot take over the follow-up of about 2000 users, which is the number that is stipulated by a family doctor, I think this is a reality more than obvious. Or, when they say they can't work the long hours required in emergencies because they don't have the ability to give effective and quality response to users, I also think it is of the most elementary clarity and evidence. The Government cannot remain indifferent to these demands from doctors, and I think that it should be clear and quick about the answers it has to give with regard to these claims.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u147	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u148	I will finish, Mr. President. The government is on the wall with regard to Almaraz — « one on the nail and the other on the hardware ». It can't be! The Portuguese Government must have a very clear position on the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u149	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u150	The report by APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) is very doubtful: so quickly it says that there is safety in the nuclear waste store, as it suddenly says that further studies are needed. The Minister of the Environment has already said that he has not yet delivered his final opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u151	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u152	Mr Prime Minister, do you mean something to us about what the Portuguese Government is going to tell Spain about the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, which is the only possible position to defend the interests of the Portuguese and the country? [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u153	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u154	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, yes, it is essential to consider what kind of job is being created. That is why it is very important to see that we have not only 150 000 jobs but also 4, 8 % contracts and 2, 1 % contracts. It is also very important to see, through the data on social security contributions, that there is an increase in average income per worker by 2 % compared to the previous income and that, with regard to the population earning the national minimum wage, there was an increase of 10, 5 %. This means that we are developing the labour market, which is creating more jobs, more stable jobs and better paid jobs. That is why we have good reason to think that we are on the right track, which does not mean that we have reached the point of destination, just means that we have to continue working to keep the results positive. In fact, it is necessary to dynamize the interior and therefore were created in the State Budget for 2017, measures such as positive discrimination in relation to IRC for companies that settle inside...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u155	It's been proposed by The Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u156	Yes, it was proposed by The Greens and it was approved. As I was saying, measures have also been introduced such as the introduction of incentives for the establishment of doctors in the interior, as a report on a strategy for the dynamisation of the interior as a whole has been approved. Very recently, I have had the opportunity, in different municipalities of the interior, to witness the inauguration of several companies that have come there to locate themselves. The most recent opening I remember was in Ponte de Sor Town Hall : the opening of a TEKEVER factory exclusively to produce drones to fully respond to the needs of the European Maritime Safety Agency. This is an example and I could remind myself of others, but this is the latest. As for what you said about what we should do about education and health, yes, that is what we have been doing, I believe that together, to reverse the devaluation of these essential public services. This is how we have done, either with investment in schools or with investment in health centres, or with the opening up of new health units, or with the hiring of staff. If the honourable Member tells me that it has not yet been done enough, of course it has not been done enough. In fact, what would be extraordinary was that we did in a year and a half of Legislation what was expected to be done in four years of Legislation. What we have is to continue to do. I recall that with regard to priorities, the option we have made together was the replacement of cross-border rights throughout the Public Administration. This was the great effort of 2016. In 2017, we were able to consolidate this effort and start monitoring this effort to strengthen public investment. Public investment has already increased by 25 % this year. Just as « Rome and Pavia did not happen one day», the replacement of the quality of public services will not happen any day either. It is a process that we will continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u157	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u158	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I hope that my words will not remove any devaluation of the medical strike. No, we didn't devalue anything. We have an ongoing negotiating process, which has a scheduled schedule until September, which is now interrupted by the strike but which, as soon as the strike is over, will of course be resumed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u159	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u160	And we will continue to do so by continuing with the same constructive spirit that we have had so far. That is our determination. Now, I think it would be a lack of respect on the part of the government for the professionals who chose to strike or for the professionals who chose to work right now to do a negotiation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u161	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u162	... and add something to this debate, which we will resume as soon as the strike ends. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u163	To put questions, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u164	Mr President, Prime Minister, for the first time since 2009 Portugal had a unemployment rate of less than 10 %. It is positive, no doubt, but inconclusive because these numbers hide a dark reality for many professions. We would like to focus today on psychology professionals, a class of 18% unemployed. There are only 598 psychologists in the National Health Service for a universe of 10 million users and we are—simply! — the third country the world with the highest rate of psychological disturbances. One of the flags of your government is the strengthening of primary health care. However, the current ratio is one psychologist for every 16,700 inhabitants, when there should be at least one psychologist for every 5000 citizens. According to the Order of Psychologists, the hiring of about 400 psychologists for the National Health Service would cost EUR 24 million but save the state, in shared drugs, hospital admissions and medical lows, EUR 123 million. But more, Mr. Prime Minister ; the professionals who are employed live in enormous precariousness, including within the state. For example, of the 750 psychologists serving the Ministry of Education, about 450 are hired annually under the item for temporary needs, i.e., the country does not invest in the continuity of these services, the country does not invest in these professionals. Mr President, Prime Minister, the NAP presented proposals in the State Budget for 2017 for an urgent strengthening of psychologists but we were not accompanied. We thus question Mr. Prime Minister, if the Government is available to sit back with the NAP, within the next State Budget, and walk towards a strengthening of psychologists in education and in the National Health Service, as well as improving their effective and non-precarious integration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u165	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the answer, as you put your question, is simple. We are obviously available to sit with the NAP to work on this in the next State budget. For this year we can only spend what is in the State budget. The objective we have before us is that we would like to have at least one psychologist for each group of health centres and we can have more psychologists, and with greater stability, in all school groups, so that there is an early follow-up of the population with follow-up needs in the area of mental health. We are available for this and therefore we will work for it in view of the 2018 Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u167	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr. Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, the debate is going on for a long time, but I cannot fail to comment on the subject of employment, which is the subject of Mr Prime Minister's initial intervention. This is because not only do we understand that it is a matter and a serious matter, but we also have no reason to introduce any other thematic disguises. For us, it is time to say that we are very proud to say, exactly this day, that, thanks to the action of the Government and the entrepreneurship of the Portuguese, the increase in employment in our country is one reality and the rate of unemployment decreased is another. We must congratulate ourselves on that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we are pleased to know that this trend contrasts with the results of previous governance of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u170	I am amazed how it is possible for someone, one year ago, on May 22, 2016, to say that the Socialist Party's Government is putting down 60 000 jobs and, a year later, when we have about 150 000 net jobs in Portugal, say that we have nothing to do with that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u171	They put the viola in the bag!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u172	They no longer know what they say, but what we know and can say today is that, regardless of the festive court, there is neither, nor was there, miracles in this matter. Behind was mistrust and today, in front of us, are the best rates of trust in the last two decades. Investors, like other public and private decision makers who have generated more jobs, have not done so because they believe in the past but because they believe in this administration, in this government and in the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, Prime Minister, the objective of the PS is to dignify the work and continue to reverse the destruction of employment generated by the previous government. And also public employment, pooring services, still weakened today, and compromising internal cohesion and our external image. There are cases of public systems such as justice and internal security, with the drastic reduction of judicial officials and judges, prison guards, operational officials and criminal investigation; see the bleeding that occurred in the diplomatic and consular network device, with damage to the country's external image; see the case of the National Health Service, where thousands of professionals have been lost, for example, although with great benefit for Portuguese, we will be recovering, as in the case of surgeries, in which more 13 750 surgeries were performed in the first quarter of this year compared to the homologous period of the previous year, and when more 274,000 Portuguese have a family doctor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, Prime Minister, developments in these sectors show how employment in public functions is also an engine of social efficiency, security for all and economic dynamism. As I am sure that the growth in employment supply is inseparable from economic growth, it is also true that more jobs can generate more growth. That is also what has happened between us, with the contribution of domestic demand and private consumption to the increase in gross domestic product. We have other sectors with economic potential employers for which the government can and should invest more. I speak of areas from the appreciation of our cultural and natural heritage to others such as those of the economy of the sea. With regard to the influence of employment on the credit ratio at risk in the banking system, which has significantly decreased, this reduction has been operated in just a more pronounced way in areas such as housing credit or consumer credit, which shows well the influence of employment and the influence of improving the available income of families generated by this route.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u174	Such measures as the taking, or ongoing, of direct or indirect improvement of wages, of promotion of collective bargaining, of combating illegal precariousness, of limiting the term contract regime, of the early and part-time reform scheme, of diversification of sources of social security financing, of incentives for firms to hire young people seeking first employment and other benefits, in the case of public service, which have already been introduced or should be, which have contributed and will contribute, following their implementation, to the volume and quality of employment but also to social peace and an economic climate conducive to entrepreneurship confidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u176	All of this the Portuguese know and know that this is due to the change of government and the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, in the context of employment policies there naturally arises the issue of the priority of the adequacy of education, education and training systems to the ongoing economic revolution. in the perspective of an inclusive social response that we have to give, among other aspects, irreversible trends of transition to a green energy-supported economy, to automated production models, to the transition from a wage economy to a majority economy of entrepreneurs to innovation is the feeder of all these processes. The subsequent changes in nature and working relationships should necessarily give our attention. in the developed countries millions of jobs have been lost in recent years because of the investment that improves production more than human labour requires. In the next 20 years, almost 40% of jobs, as we know them, will be subtracted in this evolutionary process and 15% of professions are undergoing significant changes in their skills and new professions emerge. In Portugal, 50 % of all new jobs are generated by companies with less than five years of activity, i.e. the precariousness of work, in some ways, the precariousness of enterprises is added. It will remain to know how to make a society sustainable with such dissonances and inequalities. One thing is right, it won't be with low wages and deregulation of labour law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is for everything and for all that the PS insists so much on the qualification of young people and on the conversion of active workers to new skills. Only in this way, Prime Minister, will competitiveness be compatible with employability, wealth and less unequal redistribution. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm done. These are some of the challenges for which the PS calls on the attention of the government — challenges of the PS, challenges of the government, in essence, challenges of all of us: to support investment and to motivate capital for applications that improve productivity, competitiveness and their contribution to public systems without destroying work; to select investment in qualification and technology incorporation in order to ensure the contribution of this investment to employability. It is on these issues that we are working on, that the Government has an obligation to work on these issues from now on. It is for this purpose that the Socialist Party also makes itself available for continuous work, in the sense of progress that dignifies work, that protects people and entrepreneurs. That is the progress that the Socialist Party wants. That is also what Mr. Prime Minister, who distinguishes us in Portugal and who values us in the Portuguese party context [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u177	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u178	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos César, began by pointing out the difficulty that the opposition has had to set the critical discourse on the policy that has been followed by the government. We all remember that at the beginning of the legislature the Devil was presented as the repetition of a strategy based on great public investment, which would lead the country to misfortune, and an increase in domestic demand, with contempt for exports. They verified that the model was not that and then the criticism that they had made, that we were going to bet everything on the increase in public investment, went on to criticise the importance of public investment, as if the fall in public investment had not been explained only by the disastrous way in which the transition of the QREN to Portugal 2020 was managed. For months, years, we criticized how then Minister Poiares Maduro managed, in an absolutely disastrous manner and with remarkable incompetence, the transition of the QREN to Portugal 2020. Unfortunately, no one called! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]] The disillusionment was so much that, at the full stage of the conclusion of Portugal 2020, the Secretary of State for Regional Development was replaced, appearing a new one which did not continue what had been done by the former Secretary of State. This is how the transition of tables was managed and the country paid hard in 2016 the lack of investment capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u179	Another inheritance!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u180	Today, fortunately, we have Portugal 2020 at cruising speed, either with regard to companies or with regard to the state or, above all, with regard to local authorities. This explains that we had an increase of more than 25 % in public investment 1. this year's quarter, compared with 1. The quarter of the last year. They then said that, with the income policy that we would follow, with the increase of the national minimum wage, the replacement of workers' rights, we would run away from private investment. Well, what we've verified is that private investment has risen, over the year, about 6 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u181	Fall!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u182	... and, in this quarter, compared with the counterpart, we verified a private investment growth of 7, 7 %. In other words, investors are not being driven by the increase in national minimum wage, investors are not being driven by the current political majority, on the contrary, investors are having confidence in our economy, they are increasing investment, creating wealth and increasing the number of jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, we have data that indicates that this movement is continuing, because what we see is that the increase in imports today is not, above all, occurring in immediate consumer goods, but rather in machines and equipment that companies are importing to invest in, so as to increase their productive capacity and increase our economy. Then they moved on to the subject of debt, but we stopped listening to the subject of debt. It is a good sign and it is desirable that we do not hear the right to speak again on the subject of debt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u184	...because what we know about the right and the debt is that it increased 40 percentage points during the four years in which the right was government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The basic question, which so much disturbs and upsets the right benches, is that, indeed, between the development model they had and the alternative development model that we presented, it was demonstrated that the right one did not work and ours produced good results from an economic point of view...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u185	You guys took the country to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u186	...and also from the budgetary point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, their idea was that in order to be competitive, we had to impoverish, destroy rights and close public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u187	Now they don't lock anything up? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u188	What we said was that, in order to be competitive again, we had to invest in innovation and, in order to invest in innovation, it was necessary to support and encourage companies to be able to invest, but it was essential to invest in qualification, because without qualified human resources we cannot have innovation. And to have qualified human resources it is necessary to invest in the education system, it is necessary to invest in the lifelong training system and it is also essential to invest in the quality of the labour market, because only quality employment allows quality human resources. While others recommended that young people emigrate, the priority we must have is to attract quality jobs, which set, form and attract more quality jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr César has pointed out the challenges that the digital economy presents to us, but we have a reality: today we know that in order to fully serve the needs of companies, in terms of transition to the digital economy, there are currently 40 000 jobs with needs to satisfy. This clearly shows that there are between almost 500 000 unemployed and 40 000 jobs that need to be filled. What does that indicate? It indicates that we must make a great deal of effort in the digital skills of our human resources. Thus, within the framework of the programme we have launched for digital skills, we want to combat digital literacy from 50 000 citizens by 2020 and we want to provide programming skills for around 18 000 graduates in low-employment areas, because we actually have to increase these capacities in order to provide and meet the needs of the labour market. That is also why we have been investing in our higher education system. We have been growing, in higher education, about 5% a month; we have more than 60 000 jobs created in higher education and less than 36 000 unemployed in higher education. It is that, without strengthening our teaching system, without strengthening our research system, without giving stability to the teaching body and the body of researchers, we cannot support this development movement through innovation. That is also what we have been doing at the level of investment in public services. It is that a better National Health Service, a better public school are essential conditions for us to have more innovation, more and better employment in Portugal. It is this strategy that we must continue to pursue, in a committed manner, and we must continue to achieve good results that demonstrate that the forecasts of those who only see our future at the cost of impoverishment were wrong, because it is at the cost of innovation that we will continue to have more and better employment and greater dignity in the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. We say goodbye to the Prime Minister and to the Members. Members of the Government, wishing them very good afternoon. I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 850 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the inventory and classification of the works of Banco Espírito Santo, currently of the New Bank ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 851 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government increase the requirement for vertical and horizontal signalling of public supply points for electric vehicles ( NAPs ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 852 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the strategies and action plans arising from the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy and adopts a Strategic Plan for the Safety of Airport Infrastructure ( PSD ), 853 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of European initiatives considered as a priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2017 work programme ( European Affairs Committee ), 854 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to enable the construction of the Gymnodesports Pavilion of the Diogo Sequeira School of Alandroal ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 855 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank, from 10 May to 6 June 2017 ( President of the HR ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-10.u191	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that tomorrow the plenary meeting will take place at 3 p.m. and the agenda will have a number of points. Thus we will hold elections for external bodies, specifically for the National Health Council ( CNS ) and for the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ( CSTAF ). Secondly, we will generally consider Bill No 70 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — regulates the application and enforcement of restrictive measures adopted by the United Nations or the European Union and establishes the sanctioning regime applicable to the violation of restrictive measures. Thirdly, we will also, in general, consider Bill No 71 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Central Registry of the Effective Beneficiary and transposes Chapter III of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849. Fourthly, we will generally appreciate Bill No 72/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849 and implementing Regulation ( EU ) No 2015 / 847. Fifthly, we will also, in general, examine the proposal for law No 73/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the automatic exchange of mandatory information on cross-border prior tax decisions and prior arrangements on transfer prices and on taxation by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2376 and Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 881. We will also generally appreciate Bill No 507 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defence of transparency and integrity in sports competitions ( PSDs ). Finally, we will generally appreciate Bill No. 512 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Gender Impact Assessment Scheme for Regulatory Acts ( PS ), in conjunction with draft resolution No 833 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, ensuring the gender impact assessment in the legislative procedure ( PS ). At the end of the debate, we will proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 2 minutes.]]
