ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so we're going to start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we begin our agenda today, which corresponds to a PSD marking, I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have taken part in the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 90 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, to the fifth amendment to the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom, approved by Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October 2009, to the first amendment to the Electronic Surveillance Act adopted by Law No 33 / 2010 of 2 September and to the second amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, approved by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August, which is lower than 1. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 525 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Defines the acts of veterinary physicians ( PS ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 526 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Exercise of the right to petition ( Fourth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ) ( PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), 527 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( Citizens'Legislative Initiative ) ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), 528 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Organic Law of the Referendum Regime ( Sixth Amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April ) ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ) and 529 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterized from an electronic platform ( TIRPE ) ( PSD ). They also entered, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 885 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government approve the legal diploma defining the cases, forms and terms in which administrative acts may be duly imposed by the Administration, in accordance with the provisions of Decree-Law No 4 / 2015 of 7 January, which approved the Code of Administrative Procedure ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 886 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the rapid construction of the new Court of Justice in Coimbra ( BE ), which goes down to 1. the Commission, 887 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the mandatory presence of nutritionists/ dietists in institutions in the social and solidarity sector providing care to the elderly ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 888 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Channel of Parliament, the portal of the Assembly of the Republic and the institutional presence on social networks ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), 889 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the improvement of the instruction of processes in the Azores for further approval by DGRM ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 890 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the spatial planning instruments relating to the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park ( PNSACV) with the aim of making nature protection compatible with population occupation ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 891 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information and awareness campaign for the population and the various agents of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park to safeguard the compatibility of the various economic activities with the environmental, landscape and social values ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 892 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Payment of the 2016 doctoral and post-doctoral grants by the FCT ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 893 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Requalification and expansion of the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the cycle of Vialonga, Vila Franca de Xira ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 894 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of public money for direct or indirect financing of academic bottlenecks ( NAPs ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 895 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the measures necessary to ensure that expenditure on meals « take away » in super and hypermarkets can be deductible within IRS under Article 78. o-F of the IRS Code ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission. As far as the dossier is concerned, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco, once again for the high efficiency and speed. Let us then begin our order of work, which, as I said, corresponds to a PSD marking, with the general appreciation of Bill No. 529 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterised from an electronic platform ( TIRPE ). To present this bill, Mr. Paulo Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u4	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members: PSD presents today in this House a bill with the aim of establishing a legal regime for the individual and paid passenger transport activity on decharacterized vehicles from electronic platforms. We think it's time to legislate. We have already had enough time — all parties — to gather all the data needed to present proposals or to decide on this issue of urban mobility platforms. It is not right to postpone this issue for a longer time. It is also not correct to note that there are no electronic platforms. They exist and are welcome. Worse it is to want them not to exist, preventing modernity and urbanity, through new technologies, from reaching our country in the 21st century. There is therefore no alternative but to update Portuguese legislation, in view of the new evidence of the present and the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has already done its homework and is in a position to present a good proposal to legislate on a matter that already exists in fact but which, due to the lack of objective legislation, has created an empty and questionable situation that is not acceptable in a rule of law. Our duty, as honourable Members, is to legislate and never accept legal voids. PSD heard a lot. We talked a lot about it. We spoke with taxi and taxi associations, electronic platform companies and consumer associations. We have examined legislation from other countries. We evaluated the pros and cons of all the suggestions, and there were many, and we also had a good internal debate. This is our final result. The PSD, from the beginning, had four special attentions in developing this project: who provides the car service, who drives the car, the consumer and the platforms. It was around these four actors that turned our attentions. in this project, PSD is clear: electronic platforms are not only platforms that connect suppliers to customers. It is our position, which, curiously, echoes the latest decisions of European Community institutions. For us, platforms are more than a mere passive intermediary, their intermediation is particularly active and interventional, which is why it should be on them that the greater weight of regulatory responsibility should fall. The platforms actually choose the vehicles and recruit the drivers. Around the platform gravitate the vehicle, the driver, the service and the user. Another question of principle: whoever works for the services made available by the platforms — as is the case with drivers — cannot be the weakest link in the equation. On the contrary, we have always said — and we are consistent in this proposal — that the drivers of the vehicles made available by the platforms cannot have unworthy salaries or a precarious job situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u5	And where is that in your project? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u6	We cannot create new professions or occupations with low wages and precarious work. It is also for this reason that platforms are only 25 % of the total value of the service; 75 % of this value goes to the driver and to the car. The legislation we propose also prevents temporary price abuses by platforms. For example: the maximum value, i.e. the maximum possible peak of the price of services, is 100 % of the average value of the services made available in the last 72 hours. That is, there is a maximum price ceiling in the hours of higher demand. This avoids abuse. With this proposal, there will also be a possibility for the consumer to choose a pre-defined, fixed-priced route which cannot be changed until the end of the trip. The quality of service, which is a fact that we greatly value, will also be assessed in a clear and rapid manner by the consumer. On the other hand, the training of the driver will be rigorous, both from a technical and personal point of view. It means — because it is never too much to mention — that this legislation is not made against anyone, much less against taxis and taxi drivers. In fact, nothing prevents taxis from also being present on electronic platforms and nothing prevents the current taxis from being discharacterized and becoming part of the largest urban mobility platforms. Nothing prevents current taxi and taxi drivers from providing services to platforms. We have always said that there is room for everyone and we have always highlighted the unique role of taxis and taxi drivers in mobility. This proposal we are presenting today is a proposal that really wants to regulate what already exists and that is an international trend. The Social Democratic Party does not feel comfortable with the current legislative void, legal. We therefore put forward a proposal that is balanced, that will defend the consumer, that will defend who works, that will defend who performs the service, that will put Portugal in the technological current, following, of course, principles that are followed by the PSD whenever we propose any legislative matter to the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u7	Mr Paulo Neves, the Bureau records the registration of five Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, so I ask you how you want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u8	I'll answer three gentlemen. Members and then two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u9	All right, Mr. Deputies. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u10	Mr President, Mr Paul Neves, there is an observation that cannot fail to be made regarding the circumstances of this debate: the PSD had neither a proposal nor a project when the plenary discussed this matter on 17 March, but, in the light of the facts, thought better and still wanted to come to the game so as not to stay away from the thanks of the multinationals who entered our country and began to act impunity in this sector, in the wake of the law and its compliance. That's the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u11	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u12	The CFP has from the outset assumed: we do not want to contribute to the legalization of unfair competition. That is why we have not put forward proposals, we have not submitted projects, but we want to intervene actively in the discussion in the specialty, where this matter is currently being found, and there is no objection that we have heard from the PSD so far. This was the first record we wanted to make. The honourable Member said that you can't postpone any longer and I ask you: who's here delaying that you don't have the PSD's complacency and concordance? It is that in the Working Group itself, which is chaired by the PSD, this matter has been scheduled. Therefore, you cannot say something in the Commission and in the Working Group and come to the plenary to accuse someone of delaying any matter or proceedings. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u13	On the other hand, you say that there are already platforms — thank you! — and that we have to update the law. But what this means, in accordance with your proposal, Mr President, is nothing less than the consecration by law of the current situation of deregulation, precariousness, of the law of the jungle to which we are attending in our country within this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u15	It is that the proposal you put forward is exactly a matter of impunity for deregulation in passenger transport. The honourable Member states that « platforms are not, nor can they be, a mere passive intermediary», but the question is: then, Mr, what consequences have been taken from this proclamation that you have made here? A platform cannot have cars, it says your proposal, but it can be combined with other multinationals in relation to rent-a-car, with regard to insurance, with respect to other services that are linked and associated in this sector. What effect does all the proclamation and all the controversy in this area have on the part of the European Commission, as mentioned above? But, of course, there is a part of the bill that you have not distributed, which is the part that refers to wages, to working bonds, to the working conditions of drivers. It is only to say that you cannot drive more than 10 every 24 hours and to say that, in relation to wages, to links, to precariousness, each one knows of himself, it is clearly contradictory to this proclamation that you come here to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u16	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u17	Do you objectively agree with the fact that these platforms, these multinationals, can place as many cars as you want, wherever you want, in which part of the city you want? Do you agree that there is no quota, that there is no regulation of the offer? Oh, my God! Do you accept this proposal that you are presenting to Parliament? Is that what you want? And then, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, are you still reluctant to say that this legislation is not against anyone? Oh, my God! It's against a lot of people, sir! It is against many people and it will be important not to miss the memory of criticism—despite the thanks that some of you are sure to make—and the damage that you are causing to many people in this country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u18	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u19	Mr President, Mr Paul Neves, this is not a new subject because it has already been discussed in this plenary for several times, and has indeed been the subject of two petitions which this House has discussed. And, in our view, it has been well discussed, because in this matter, what we inherited from the previous government was an absolutely unthinkable situation. We inherited, on the one hand, a taxi transport activity to which the State imposes, and well, an extended set of legal requirements and requirements and, on the other, an activity which, while developing a similar service is literally free from any licensing process and free of any other legal requirements. In other words, we inherited a situation where an activity was, and it is, duly regulated and framed in accordance with the law and another which, although doing a similar service, is out of the scope of the law, and is therefore illegal for all purposes. In fact, under the taxi transport legal regime, this activity is subject to a rigorous licensing process and a set of legal procedures that constitute the exercise of that activity. The law requires, among many other aspects, for example, the licensing of vehicles, which is made by the municipal chamber where the taxi transport activity is intended, that the car is provided with a taxi meter and even the price charged by the taxi transport service is determined by legal diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u20	And you can't double one day!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u21	We thus have a regulated activity in detail. 'The Greens' even accompany the PSD when it states, in the explanatory statement of the legislative initiative we are now discussing, the following, and I quote: '(...) from a regulatory point of view, the public interest elected as the most relevant should be that of improving mobility, security and welfare of the user of services, without losing sight of the sustainability of all economic operators present in the individual transport market, which includes, for example, taxi services, which cannot be placed in a situation of regulatory disadvantage to the detriment of new business models. Do not keep on seeking. ” We agree, but that is not, in fact, the result of the reading of the project, for two reasons, Mr. On the one hand, because the PSD, in terms of licensing, continues to defend a more demanding and stricter process with taxi services than with other operators. It is sufficient to deal with the fact that taxi activity is subject to a licence by the municipal chamber where the activity of taxi is intended and the other operators are apparently released from this licence. On the other hand, the PSD considers that in taxi activity the price should be determined by legal diploma and in other cases the price is freely determined by the parties. However, the price is an essential element of any contract—including in accession contracts, it is always an essential element. The result of the PSD project is that, for taxis, the price is determined by legal diploma and in the others are the parties that determine it. However, what we believe is that, both at the level of licensing and at the level of determining the price of the service provided, the proposal is not in line with the text of the explanatory statement, in particular when the PSD points out that taxi services cannot be placed in a situation of regulatory disadvantage to the detriment of new business models. It is about this contradiction that concerns my request for clarification. Mr Paulo Neves, how can this unequal treatment be compatible between taxis, on the one hand, and other operators, on the other hand, with the objective set out in the explanatory statement, where it is stated that taxi services cannot be in a disadvantaged situation? It was good, Mr President, to explain to us how it is possible to reconcile this, because it seems to us that your legislative initiative, which the PSD intends to establish, or legitimize, unfair competition. For this petition, Mr Greens will not give. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u22	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr Ricardo Bexiga, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we greatly miss the political opportunity of this PSD initiative. In addition, I will confess that we were expecting anyone to present this proposal not to be Mr Paulo Neves but, yes, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, because in fact we only see this PSD legislative initiative in the framework of the launch of a pre-election campaign. It is that the PSD has been government and has done nothing to solve this problem; we have repeatedly discussed this issue in this plenary and the PSD has not put forward any proposals; we are discussing, in our specialty, not only the issue of regulating electronic transport platforms but all that concerns the issue of public passenger transport and the PSD so far, we have never presented the debate with any proposal that would bring something new to this problem. On the other hand, we know that the Government has submitted in due course a proposal for legislation to regulate the operation of these platforms—including, the Government has promoted the establishment of a working group for the modernisation of the public passenger transport sector, which has already submitted its conclusions—we also know that the IMTT (Instituto de Mobility et de Transport, I.P. ) It is currently preparing a legislative package to regulate all the legislative complexity that regulates this matter and the PSD has not submitted any proposals to us here either. We are also surprised at the presentation of the PSD bill by Mr. Paulo Neves, because any similarity between his presentation and the content of the bill is pure coincidence. In contrast to what you have mentioned here, your proposal is a partial proposal. It is a proposal that is mainly concerned with the question of the business model. Everything else forgets: forgets the issue of competition protection, particularly in relation to the taxi sector; forgets the issues of urban mobility; forgets the issue of the competences recently conferred on the authorities and the metropolitan transport authorities; forgets everything concerning the rights of workers. Therefore, on this subject, the PSD proposal does not coincide with what you have mentioned here. So I would leave a few questions to him. First of all: clarify, from a legal point of view, whether transport platforms, as regulated in the draft law, are true transport operators subject to legal regulations governing public passenger transport services. Secondly, clarify how the PSD bill seeks to defend competition rules and protect the legitimate interests of the taxi transport sector. Specifically, I would like you to clarify what the PSD intends to do with the five laws, three decrees, six gates, five orders and two deliberations that currently regulate the taxi sector. I would also like you to clarify the role of local authorities and metropolitan transport authorities in regulating the activity of electronic transport platforms. How do they ensure tax evasion in the taxation of these platforms, which are based outside Portugal? How do they integrate the regulation of transport platforms within the framework of public urban mobility policies? Finally, how do they effectively intend to protect and defend the interests of workers at the service of these platforms and who are currently often working more than 12 hours a day and earning less than the national minimum wage? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u24	In reply, Mr Paulo Neves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u25	Mr President, on the order of matters, which I would like to thank first of all, Mr Bruno Dias. It is not fair to say that the Social Democratic Party was not at stake. We've been at stake since the first day,... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... from the first hour, in this plenary, in the Commission and in the Working Group. But let me tell you the following: whoever does not come to play is his party. It is that your role, in this plenary and also in the Commission, has been that of a commentator. You don't even put forward a proposal. So it is not fair to look at a party that has had opinions, which has had proposals, which is just presenting a proposal, and to call us viewers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u26	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u27	We're not! Ladies and gentlemen, they're just commentators...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u28	You shouldn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u29	...because we're doing our job. I say more to you: you say that this is all a mess. That is why we want to regulate the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u30	You must comply with the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u31	In fact, the Social Democratic Party is playing a role, at this very moment, in this plenary, in this House, is doing an excellent job for the whole of Parliament, which is to fill a legal void that is not good for anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u32	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u33	It is not good for the Social Democratic Party nor is it good for the Socialist Party, nor for any of the Members of this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] This legal void cannot be kept. That is why we are putting forward a proposal. The honourable Member has spoken about the working conditions, which he says are not defended in our proposal. That's not true. We speak within hours, we speak in a fraction, in an equation about who goes the profit, for who goes the money of the service; only 25% goes to the platforms, the rest remains for those who work directly on the vehicle and also for the car itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u34	What car? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u35	So, honourable Member, it is not true what you said. We're protecting those who work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u36	There is one thing we have always said, since the first day, that was our great concern: who worked. We do not admit low wages or fragility at work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u37	How do they do that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u38	This project answers this question. He also says that this is legislation that goes against everything and against everyone. That's not true, sir. We want to legalize something that should already be legalized. The Social Democratic Party is coming in time and invites you to follow us, to legalize what is urgently legalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u39	Legalize the jungle law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u40	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens, thank you very much for your questions and comments. I am not going to repeat myself but there are no contradictions in our proposal regarding what already exists. We've already said, and we repeat, we have nothing against taxis and taxi drivers. I tell you more: taxis and taxi drivers arrive all over the country and these platforms only reach large urban centers, so it would be of the greatest injustice if we did not, as we say and do, that we have nothing against taxis or taxi drivers. Moreover: in the legislation that we present in our proposal, we put the hypothesis of taxis and taxi drivers can have their platforms and can be part of existing platforms. So it is not fair to say that there is contradiction in our proposal. Then, Mr President, I am very sorry to you, but the new technologies have come to stay. This is a reality. Look at these galleries, see these young people, ask them if they don't use the new technologies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u41	So ask them if they don't want to comply with the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u42	... ask them if they are acceptable that there are still parties in Portugal that do not want them. We are not in this package, we want to update our legislation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u43	Finally, Mr Bexiga, I have even found your questions interesting, but you know that they should have been asked when the government presented the proposal it made. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u44	It is that to everything you ask yourself, the Government's proposal gives no answer. We defend much more who works, and therefore you are not right when you ask these questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u45	But will you answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u46	We have answers and we'll give them. But the questions you asked us should have asked your government when you presented the proposal a few days ago. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u47	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Paulo Neves and the Democratic Social Party bench for bringing to plenary the initiative we are discussing today. Clearly, we do not want to enter this championship of the genre « my mirror, my mirror, tell me who has the best proposal for the sector». We do not want to join this championship, but we do not want to devalue the importance of the debate, nor do we need to regulate a new technology that will enter our home and enter into the lives of consumers. As you say, well, this technology has come to stay and, therefore, the parliamentary groups would not do their part well if they were to wave aside and not take a reality seriously. However, should the following be clarified: are electronic platforms a form of unlicensed taxi service or not? I think so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u49	You can't have cars!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u50	So, on this matter, looking at the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, in fact, there is much to be clarified. Of course, they want the platforms, in line with what the Court of the European Union said, to be treated as transport operators, but, as I was saying now, and in particular Mr Bruno Dias, they cannot have cars, they cannot participate in leasings, rents, or such things. So how is it possible to be transport operators penalized by that same service when they cannot have vehicles? It is also unclear how it is the relationship of service providers, individual or collective people, with platforms. Is it guaranteed the impossibility of abuse of a dominant position? Are you sure there will be no economic dependence? Are the rights of workers guaranteed? Are consumer rights guaranteed? Matter which, by the way, permeates the initiative of the Social Democratic Party. He said: 'Well, but the platforms are not legalised'. It does not seem to me that we can respond to a need, create a new business space, have freedom of initiative, create jobs and, obviously, help to make new technologies go their way in such a disruptive way for a sector that already exists, which provides real public service, as is the taxi sector — for which the PSD initiative says nothing — without saying nothing about that service. It is not normal to ask for everything—as a set of portfolios that have been mentioned here by the Socialist Party, you will shoot at five years old, a set of Leonine licenses—to the taxi sector, which has to comply with everything, and then there is a sector that has nothing to do with almost nothing. I don't think it's fair! V. Exa even forgets a sector that is already regulated, the sector of Taxi « T », provided for in Regulation Decree No 41 / 80. This sector already has decharacterized cars that provide service exactly with the same name that you give on your initiative. He could even call « Trip » instead of TIRPE. Trip would be much more correct because they are exactly these services. In fact, Cabify has just announced the same service illegally, killing a sector that travel agencies and hoteliers already use. Therefore, this initiative has a lot of gray area. I believe that homework has been well done and therefore I do not want to devalue the contribution to the debate, but in fact we have a lot to clarify, up to the way it fits, in the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, a set of platforms such as Digital Taxi, TaxiMotions, MEO Taxi, Cabify Taxi, Taxi Click, among others, that already exist and that are working. We really need to find in the Commission an area of debate, listening to more people and joining the Government's proposal. Perhaps there is a medium-term between considering only digital platforms or transporting them to the passenger transport sector. But we have to separate the waters very well, i.e. the taxi sector that permeates the entire national territory and the public service of the taxi sector, and in this sector we have to find a set of mechanisms to update and adapt to new technologies, without, obviously, abating the space for the existence of electronic platforms used by taxi companies or not. That's where we have to go...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u51	Mr President, you have far exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u52	That is why I would like to know whether the availability for the debate in the Commission exists for you. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u53	To request clarification before Mr Paulo Neves'replies, Mr Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paul Neves, I would like to begin by asking a very simple question: PSD members have ever seen an electronic platform circulating on the street, on the roads? Have you ever seen an electronic platform circulating? You are talking about this problem as if there were a foreign entity, which are the electronic platforms, which suddenly began to operate a service of the type "transport of passengers in uncharacterized vehicles". Mr. Deputies, you certainly haven't seen it! That is why there is a great misunderstanding in this debate. The first is to suppose that an electronic platform, which is no more than a software, is no more than a computer application, is a passenger transport operator. No, sir, it's not! This is probably one of the major problems of Uber or other companies. We are not talking about electronic platforms, we are talking about companies, we are talking about bosses, I repeat, bosses, and, as companies that are, they hide behind a computer instrument, a computer application. They are not, at least, entities liable to be held responsible for the evils they produce, by the earthquake or by the deregulation they are causing in various markets. Mr President, in his speech he said very curious things that are not, indeed, in his proposal, but he wanted to tell you that the studies he said should have been done very little attention. I have with me, for example, a decision of the London working court of 28 October 2016, which says that Uber lost the right to have drivers to work on its own. In other words, the London court has decided that Uber, if you want to operate with its vehicles and its drivers in London territory, has the right to do so, but you have to assume that it is indeed a taxi operator, a transport operator. You cannot hide in a supposed self-employment where the various operators, whom you have as partners in your proposal, will develop their activity on behalf of the electronic platform. I think you know this decision from the working court. He said that he had studied, that he had made the various possible and imaginary evaluations, but perhaps he failed to know this decision. And, perhaps, he also failed to know a decision of the court of Rome which rightly says that the exercise of the activity by Uber, by a supposed electronic platform operator, is illegal and is not in accordance with what Italian law establishes. He must also have made sure that a decision by the Madrid Provincial Audience upholds the maintenance of the suspension of the UberPop application in the taxi service in the Madrid metropolitan area. And he must also have made sure that in an opinion of the Attorney-General of the European Court of Justice, Mr Szpunar, of 11 May 2017, which says in particular about the service provided by Uber — and I will translate — that the service connects, through a mobile phone software, passengers with drivers who offer individual urban transport on demand, transports which are controlled not by an electronic platform but by an operator, by an employer who has the prerogative to set the price, irrespective of the consumer. So this is not an offer and search game. There is a price — which is not determined by the consumer, but by the transport operator — that is imposed on the consumer when he asks for that service. There is no equality between the one who offers the transport service and the consumer who seeks that service. It's a deeply unbalanced relationship. The price is not free, it is set by the transport operator that hides behind the electronic platform, the algorithm of definition of the price that may be of many surprises, because it can both give a value of 100, as well as of 300 or 400, supposedly depending on the traffic conditions that the service offers. So, what you invoke in the draft bill's explanatory statement to justify the use of an electronic platform, in particular a supposed transparency in pricing, is a lie, because under conditions of great traffic nothing happens; on the contrary, passengers are surprised at rates that have nothing to do with what is announced to them. Mr. Member, just to conclude, I would like you to tell us if you actually studied these issues that are happening in Europe where Uber is being banned from hiding behind electronic platforms and is obliged to pursue an activity...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u55	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u56	I will now finish, Mr President. It said, it is obliged to carry out the activity with frontality, with transparency and respecting all the regulations that exist for the regular taxi service, let us say so, in accordance with the laws of each country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u57	To reply, Mr Paul Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u58	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, thank you very much for your question and also for your comments. I will appreciate what unites — and that is quite enough — our two parties, which is the need to regulate this matter. So if you'll excuse me, I'll stay around. What we propose in our project is future legislation. It is a project on legislation that should already exist and that does not exist and stresses that platforms that already exist should be regulated, platforms that may include taxis and taxi drivers. That's what we're talking about. Mr Heitor Sousa, I would also like to thank you for your questions. I must say that I was a little concerned about your speech, because what you just said is that it is against the regularization of what is happening. You prefer the law of the jungle! He doesn't want the platforms to be regulated!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u59	That is why we have put forward a proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u60	We don't think so. We think the platforms are more than what you were saying is a link between a consumer and the service provider. For us, they are much more than that! The honourable Member gave some examples of judicial decisions in Europe. Mr. Deputies, I am aware of these and many more. See how many documents I have here with me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u61	But he didn't read them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u62	These decisions lead us to say that we are right! [[BE's protests.]] But I say more: we are available, as always, to improve everything. I invite you and the Members of the other parties to do the same. Let our proposal pass so that we can improve what we have tabled in committee. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u63	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I begin my performance in the Presidency of the Bureau by saying that, until now, the Bureau has not registered any other entries. [[Pause.]] Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has eyes on the future. That is why I am presenting this proposal — which is, frankly, very positive — to regulate a sector that needs regulation so much. What did the government's proposal say? That platforms are mere websites that act as online stores. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u65	We don't understand that. The government understood that platforms were the most relevant agent of this activity—in fact, it was not the electronic platform, but rather the transport operators. We don't understand that, and that's not really what happens. For the government, the platform is almost free of obligations to the user. We don't understand that. In practice, the Government's proposal prohibits the idea of sharing economy. PSD doesn't understand that, and that's not reality. in the Government's proposal, there is a lack of obligations regarding the service, in particular with regard to its quality, etc. This, in our view, is wrong, because it is totally out of touch with reality. The PSD project is based on the following assumptions: the phenomenon of electronic transport platforms is an excellent example of the sharing economy; the user chooses the platform rather than the driver, only chooses the drivers offered by the platform; all the hiring is formatted and conditioned by the platform, the negotiation is conducted between the platform and the user. That's the reality! [[PCP protests.]] It is the platform that is able to ensure consistency and legality of the operation, as a whole and individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u66	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u67	The user is interested in protecting himself before the driver and the platform and not third parties. Platforms should not outsource to the State the costs of organising and recruiting their obligations, in particular the different operations, by making the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport) do the accreditation work of its drivers. These are not necessarily workers on behalf of others. That's our thought. The legislator's objective should be that of the greatest public interest in the presence, proceeding to its regulation and protection. That is also our understanding. So what we propose in the bill is the creation of a list of user rights — non-discrimination, access, information, etc. — the rules governing the performance of the accounts of the platform. We also propose the placement of the platform operator at the centre of the regulatory obligations framework, gravitating around the four fundamental concepts of this service: vehicle, driver, user and platform. They are the operators of the platform who must ensure compliance with the obligations relating to drivers and vehicles used in the service. In addition, we propose that drivers have a unique and portable identification number, from the first registration on any platform or operator, to allow the control of their identity, as well as the duration of the activity on several platforms. Drivers must also be inspected from their safety profile and driving history and their training must be compulsory, ensuring road safety and high quality of service to users. We also propose limitations on the duration of the activity — 10 hours a day, as we have already mentioned, is essential for security in the sector — and the creation of a regulatory rate, charged by each service, which is the revenue of a mobility fund, so that it is precisely the platforms to pay the regulation and not the State to have that commitment. So welcome, if they come well, and understand how positive the PSD initiative is so that we can move forward in an area that requires legalization. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u68	The Bureau is very anxiously waiting for Mrs and Mrs to sign up. Members for the continuation of this item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] With no inscriptions, the Bureau assumes that there will be no desire to continue the discussion on this point. Is there an extended consensus to move on to the next item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u69	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u70	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u71	Mr President, the PSD will do the closing intervention, as is normal. So, if we're going to stop now, we're registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u72	Of course I do! This is a practice acquired from the plenary that the legislative initiative presents makes the last intervention. It's a consensual practice. I ask again whether any parliamentary group wishes to sign up. [[Pause.]] Not being the case, you have the floor to close this item on the agenda, Mr Paulo Rios, of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I note that this issue — which is important and which is being discussed in public opinion and published for a very long time — does not involve the parties that are in government or even the government itself. Sit down! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u74	Six months ago this topic was introduced!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u75	After this debate and the little we have heard, clear conclusions and unequivocal messages are still required. I should like to start by recalling that this issue — the legal regime of carriage by unmarked vehicle from an electronic platform — only comes the debate on the imposition of the PSD and the presentation of its proposal. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Since at least mid-2015 — it is amazing how Mr. Ricardo Bexiga says we do not legislate, when it is from 2015 that this question arises in Portugal — that this business model and new service began to operate in Portugal in the most absolute deregulation, and with the Government of the Republic watching! The impact of these platforms has affected consumers, industry professionals and new stakeholders, and with the Government of the Republic watching! There has been confusion of concepts, procedures and rules of exercise and provision of services, with serious and widely reported incidents, and our government has taken refuge in vague and inconsequential explanations or excuses! Even in 2015, the courts received a precautionary provision that ordered the suspension of Uber platform service and caused chaos in the sector. on the side of the government, nothing new! Only at the end of 2016, a year and a half later, is that the government is timidly moving forward with a proposal, which, as we are trying to demonstrate today—and we will not stop doing so—is not enough or solid. It is not enough because it does not articulate or respond to the four major issues that this activity presupposes, i.e. the fair balance between those who provide the service, who drive the car, the consumer himself and the platforms. But it is also not solid because, as if it were not enough, the Government's proposal is limited to the Socialist Party, i.e., it opens another rumb in the solidity of governance in the fashion of management. In other words, the Government did not know, did not want or could not bring together such a "government of broad consensus and stable majority", which sold to the Portuguese, and came to this debate during the 66 Members of the Socialist Party. To this block or block where the government has left or wanted to let go, the PSD has responded with a proposal, our proposal, much more ambitious and balanced, trying to respond and discipline this activity. We did not do as the PCP, which, when it does not understand reality or does not like reality, builds a wall and pretends that nothing exists beyond the communist world. [[PSD applause.]] We did not do as the Left Block, which makes up a different matrix proposal, I would say even, ideologically different, more concerned about stopping than regular. Above all, we did not do as the government, which took two years to deal with the problem and which confesses powerless to overcome it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u77	The PSD is a reformist party and being a reformist party is neither, nor can it be, a political coward. To be reformist is to perceive and anticipate change, not to be afraid to face reality and act on it, balancing the interests at stake and leaving people and institutions the ability to « breathe», compete and create. To be reformist is more than to manage the present, it is to anticipate the future, as an opportunity and not as a threat. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us not ask the PS, this PS of strong communist and blogger inspiration, which is the paradigm of reformism. The PS, this PS, handles the challenges of the future and anticipated that these platforms and this new model of mobility and service would be a embarrassment to management. In order not to be ashamed, nor do I bring to the debate the trapalhone form and the almost infantile humor solution, such as the PS, this PS, wanted to resolve the new issues related to local accommodation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to believe that the PS is not pretending to solve, for nothing, and that the government wants to find a solution to this challenge. If the Government wants a solution, a good solution which, more balancedly, composes the interests at stake, can and should support the PSD proposal and can prove it today by voting in favour. If, for a moment, the Socialist Party wants to look with humility and sense of responsibility for the proposals of the largest party represented in this House, we are here, with the same humility and the same sense of responsibility, to receive and hear them. This is the time for all of us to take on this issue. If the PS wants to be proud of itself, we will not fail to conclude that, after all, everything has not gone through a political misunderstanding and that the PS, by incompetence or servitude to the left partners, abdicates to rule whenever it receives a 'no' from the other two wheels of this government tricycle. PSD fulfills its responsibilities. We are waiting for PS membership and discussion at home. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u78	Mrs. Members, the next item on the agenda, without time for discussion, concerns the projects of lein. 526 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Exercise of the right to petition ( Fourth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ) ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), 527 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ) and 528 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Organic Law of the Referendum Regime ( Sixth amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April ) ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ) and also draft resolution No 888 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Channel of Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic's portal and the institutional presence on social networks ( PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ). We will move on to the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u79	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u80	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u81	Mr President, I would like to request an interruption of 15 minutes until the beginning of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u82	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. In view of the fact that the order of business took place more quickly than it was expected, we interrupted 15 minutes and returned to the regiment votes at 16 hours and 25 minutes. [[It was 16 hours and 8 minutes.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u83	The session is reopened. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 205 presences, to which are added 3 ( CDS-PP Members Ilda Araújo Novo, João Rebelo and Telmo Correia ) performing 208 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with vote No 322 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Miguel Urbano Rodrigues ( PCP ). I would ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last May 27, at the age of 91, Miguel Urbano Rodrigues, recognized journalist and writer with political intervention in Portugal and abroad, before and after April 25, over many decades. Born in Moura, in August 1925, in a family of republican tradition, Miguel Urbano Rodrigues early embraced the career of journalist, first in the Diário de Noticias and then in the Diário Ilustrado. following his dismissal he exiles in Brazil, where he writes for the newspapers The State of S. Paulo and Portugal Democratic and for the Brazilian magazine Vision. It is also in Brazil that consolidates its political convictions and initiates its active anti-fascist militancy that would lead him, in January 1964, to join the Portuguese Communist Party. After 25 April 1974 he returned to Portugal, taking on the post of editor of the Avante! , in which it remains until 1976, the date of the foundation of The Diário, of which it was the first director until 1985. His intervention and activity continued over the following decades, highlighting the many and valuable articles he wrote about the international situation and, particularly, not only Latin America, of which he was deeply familiar because of his exile in Brazil and his stay in Cuba for several years. Miguel Urbano Rodrigues was an assistant of Contemporary History at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon in 1974 / 1975 and stood out as a journalist for research and reporting, being also author of a relevant literary work. He was President of the Moura Municipal Assembly between 1986 and 1988 and Member of the Portuguese Communist Party in the Assembly of the Republic between August 1987 and October 1995, Member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Union of Western Europe. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Miguel Urbano Rodrigues and addresses his condolences to his family members and to the CFP."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u85	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 323 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning and regrets the attacks in Egypt and Afghanistan ( RA President, BE, PSD, PS, PCP, The Greens and CDS-PP ). I would ask Secretary Idália Salvador to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the occurrence last Friday, May 26, of the attack in Minya Province in Egypt, which killed 29 people, including children and young people. Tolerance and peaceful coexistence between different communities and religious confessions are an invaluable asset. This is, in fact, one of the marks of the great Egyptian nation that these hateful acts will not succeed. The feeling of dismay is repeated by the attack this Wednesday, May 31, in Kabul, Afghanistan, where the explosion of a car in the diplomatic neighborhood killed at least 80 people, leaving more than 300 injured, including many civilians, diplomatic officials and journalists. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, reaffirms Portugal's commitment to combating terrorism and expresses its condemnation for these attacks, conveying the greatest sense of regret to the families who have been wronged by these tragedies and their most sincere solidarity with the authorities and the people of Egypt and Afghanistan ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u87	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote vote No 324 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Armando Silva Carvalho ( President of RA, CDS-PP, PS, PS, PCP and BE ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of the poet Armando Silva Carvalho. Armando Silva Carvalho was born in Óbidos in 1938, and did his higher education at the University of Lisbon, where he graduated in Law. He has practiced counseling, journalism and teaching in high school. His taste for poetry was born early and the quality of his literary work was numerous times recognized, as attested by the numerous prizes he received, among which the Prize of the Portuguese Society of Writers or, more recently, the Great Poetry Prize of the Portuguese Association of Writers / CTT and the Grand Casino Prize of Puvoa. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic notes with sadness its death, conveying its sorrow to the family and friends of Armando Silva Carvalho ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u89	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 324 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the regrets that we have just voted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have two votes on which time has been requested for debate: vote No 319 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protest for the government's omissive conduct at the Iberian summit on the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant ( PSD ) and 320 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protest for the absence of the Almaraz nuclear power plant process in 29. the Luso-Spanish Bilateral Summit ( CDS-PP ). Let us start the debate by giving the floor to an intervention by Mr Manuel Frexes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Almaraz nuclear power plant is about 100 km from the border of Portugal and will soon complete 40 years of work, being obsolete, outdated and with a history of numerous incidents. This circumstance advises its closure and consequent dismantling. This is also the practice in the European Union, where Germany began the closure of all nuclear power stations before they reach 40 years of age and France will do the same to about two thirds of its power stations. The Assembly of the Republic, recognizing this fact, unanimously adopted a resolution aimed at closing this nuclear power plant. It also approved, without a vote, the scheduling of this fundamental matter for the Iberian Summit of the last weekend. Unbelievably, the Portuguese Government did not do so, but more seriously, nor did it want to. It simply gave in to the interests of Spain and its electricity companies, shareholders of Almaraz. thus, he disrespected the Assembly of the Republic and was indifferent to the concerns expressed by all political forces with parliamentary seats. from there our most vehement vote of protest, from there our censorship to the attitude of the government. But more: the conduct of the Government and the Socialist Party is causing us deep concern now. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said he did not schedule the subject, because he did not want to disturb the summit. The Minister of the Environment — or rather, the Minister of the Insolite — is happy and happy with the subject being postponed and Spain has another two years to ask for the extension of the life of the central — no doubt! But what really bothers us is the position of the Prime Minister, who says that this issue had been talked about and was resolved. Solved how? Oh, my God! Portugal, helpfully, has already yielded to the prolongation of Almaraz's life? Have decisions already been taken, that this Parliament is unaware of and that the Portuguese know?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u92	In fact, in this line of thought, we do not understand the vote of the Socialist Party. A few weeks ago he defended the treatment of the issue at the summit and the closure of the central one; now he welcomes the absence of the debate on it. But what hypocrisy is this? We cannot deal with this inconsistency! I conclude by quoting Albert Camus : « The best way to safeguard the future is to give everything to the present». The time has come to do everything and do everything to ensure the future of our peoples and generations. We don't give up! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u93	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week is 29. the Luso-Spanish Bilateral Summit. Surprisingly, the issue of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, perhaps the issue of the greatest relevance to be dealt with between these two countries, did not consist of the agenda. It has been discussed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a deafening silence. Nor did the Portuguese Government require, as it should have required, the closure of the power plant, nor did the Spanish Government give guarantees, on the contrary, give signs of continuity in the operation of this nuclear power plant in Almaraz. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this silence is particularly worrisome, because, in addition to all the questions and dangers that it closes, it is also a sign of disrespect for a deliberation approved by the Assembly of the Republic which recommended to the Government the inclusion of this matter in the agenda of this important summit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u96	That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS remains concerned about this issue and will continue to be an active voice, in order to demand that the Government take action with regard to the Spanish Government to ensure that the Almaraz nuclear power plant will effectively be closed in 2020. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u97	Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from our point of view, we have missed an opportunity for the issues concerning the Almaraz nuclear power plant to be clearly placed in the bilateral relations between Portugal and Spain, precisely at the Iberian Summit that took place days ago in Vila Real. The subjects on Spain are often the subject of discussion on the exchange of information, clarity in the relationship between neighbouring countries, particularly on nuclear issues and energy issues. But what is true is that, once again, at this summit, Spain is not really interested in establishing clear relations, eyes in the eyes, as relations between neighbouring countries and friendly countries should be guided. There is a lack of clarity as to the Almaraz power station, but also, for example, about the rhetorical uranium mines, a question on which there is a clear lack of information on the Portuguese authorities by the Government of Spain. As Ambassador Six of the Coast said in the recent Iberian interparliamentary forum, this is an important issue, but it is no longer just a matter of energy, it is no longer just a matter of the safety of populations and territories, it is a problem of confidence in relations between two States that want friends and are neighbours. Again, we were surprised by the Spanish Government's decision to postpone for two years — two years! — the possibility of delivering the requirement for the prolongation of the life of the Almaraz plant. Has the Portuguese Government been informed of this issue? If informed, it was another reason for this problem to be placed, with all vehemence, at the Iberian summit of Vila Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u100	In fact, this situation is very serious, because it means to transmit to the energy sector companies that control nuclear power stations the message that they can do what they want and very well and that they can forever prolong the life of nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u101	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u102	I will finish now, Mr President. And this situation is indeed a huge risk for Portugal, for the people, for the environment and also for confidence in the relationship between our States. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u103	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Three votes are before us today on the Luso-Spanish Summit, which took place at the end of last week, and essentially these three votes are on three issues — the Summit, the conclusions of the Summit itself and the matter of Almaraz. I would like to say, with regard to the vote presented by the Socialist Party, that we cannot follow it because it refers to the conclusions resulting from that Summit in terms which cannot be followed by the CFP. And the conclusions of the Summit last weekend frame issues that are essential for the relationship between the two States and the two peoples in a way that we cannot follow. We cannot, in any way, follow up on the treatment given to energy issues in the Iberian electricity market, the Iberian gas market or the European energy market, because that is the wrong way to deal with a central issue for the development of our country and to respond to the needs of the Portuguese people. The same is true of defence issues in NATO ( Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty ) or in the pillars of the European Union, and of certain transport issues, for example in the Single European Sky or in other pillars of the construction of the European Union. This is a wrong way of encompassing relations between two States and two peoples that need to be defined on a basis of cooperation, bilateral relations with the objective of obtaining mutual benefit, and respect for the sovereignty of each State. It seems to us that the framework given at this summit at the European Union level of deepening the lines of construction of the European Union is a wrong and harmful option for the two peoples and the two countries. On the questions of Almaraz, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: we are no longer discussing the position of each party or of each parliamentary group on Almaraz today, we are discussing the treatment given at that summit. And on this subject, I wanted to say that the problem is not just the Luso-Spanish Summit. The Luso-Spanish Parliamentary Forum itself has translated the difficulties in dealing with this issue, because it was not in this context possible to frame in the conclusions the proper treatment of Almaraz issues, in order to ensure the Portuguese and the Portuguese State's necessary treatment by the Spanish authorities, in order to ensure the closure of that central one.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u105	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u106	I will finish, Mr. President. We believe that the terms in which the CDS puts this issue in the vote it presents are appropriate and weighted, not only in relation to the position which the Assembly of the Republic has taken but also to the silence by the Portuguese Government in dealing with this matter, but also in contrast to what happens with the terms in which the PSD vote was proposed, which cannot merit our agreement. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u107	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u108	Mr. President: First of all, I would like to say that the debate on Almaraz has been a serious debate. The position of the Socialist Party, which has so far coincided with the position of all the other seats in this Chamber, has not changed: the Socialist Party defends the closure of the power station of Almaraz, and is accompanied by the Government in this same proposal. in this context, I find it very strange that there has been a complete omission of the position expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs at his last hearing in the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, who said that he would continue to develop all diplomatic efforts in order to respect the position taken in this Parliament. The Portuguese Government, at the summit held on 29 and 30 May, put national interests first, and this is clear in the position expressed in points 12 and 13 of the conclusions of the Summit, which, if I may, will read quickly: '12 — The summit in Vila Real has allowed both countries to reaffirm their firm commitment to deepen the exchange of energy information in a spirit of dialogue and transparency within the framework of the European Union and to develop bilateral consultations whenever necessary, particularly in cases with a potential cross-border impact. 13 — The importance of defending and promoting a sustainable energy model was stressed through the use of renewable endogenous resources. (...) », and then forward. But I cannot fail to note also the absence of any reference from the other banks to the victory which was the commitment made by the Portuguese Government and Parliament — and I stress the work done by 11. the Commission — as regards the definition of the flow system provided for in the Albufeira Convention, to be further developed in 2018, when the 20 years of this Convention are completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u109	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u110	The Socialist Party's bench really considers the outcome of the Summit to be positive in the face of the interest of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u111	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, from the Green Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u112	Mr President: The Greens' position on the issue of the Almaraz nuclear power plant is very well known, through the interventions and initiatives we have made on this matter. We went to the place where the Iberian Summit was held to protest the failure to include a point on the Almaraz nuclear power plant on the agenda of the summit, we protested here, in the Assembly of the Republic, and we will continue to protest, certainly, if the Government does not take a firm stand in defence of the interests of the Portuguese, of our territory, of our ecosystems, in particular of the Tejo River. This firm position of The Greens is something with which the Portuguese and the ladies and gentlemen. Members may continue to count. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens have often said here, in the Assembly of the Republic, that the votes are not worth themselves, are worth what they say, in the way they say so and often by what they imply in their text. The Greens will not follow the PS vote — we will even vote against — insofar as they completely ignore this opposition to not including the issue of the Almaraz nuclear power plant in the Iberian Summit and seek to flower the thing about energy matter, as if nothing had happened. The CDS vote seems appropriate to us in the way it puts things. The PSD vote, Mr Manuel Frexes, causes us some embarrassment in the vote, I must say.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u113	To the cause? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u114	The pretext of a very fair matter, which is the question of the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, the PSD comes into a way of saying the things that give the feeling that there is not even a regular functioning of the institutions at this time. The gentlemen. Members should bear in mind that if the Government does not take into account a recommendation from the Assembly of the Republic, it must suffer the political consequences for this fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u115	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u116	I will finish, Mr. President. But pay attention, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because we are talking about two completely different sovereign bodies. Political responsibility must fall on the government and surely the Greens will be a voice in that government responsibility. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes and PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the vote on these three votes that have been discussed. We begin by voting No 319 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protest for the government's omissive conduct at the Iberian summit on the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PS and the PCP.]] [[This was the case last weekend at Vila Real, the Iberian Summit where the Governments of Portugal and Spain had the opportunity to discuss at the bilateral level topics considered important for the political, economic and social relationship between the two countries. Incomprehensibly, the environmental dimension was out of the agenda of this meeting because it was uncomfortable to speak of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. This was the opportunity of the Government to show the Portuguese that the defence of national interests was first. This was the opportunity for the Government to comply with the recommendations adopted by Parliament, since resolution No 107/2016 urging the Government to take the necessary steps with the Government of Spain and the European Union to promote the closure of the Almaraz power plant in 2020, as well as Resolution No 76/2017 which recommends to the Executive the inclusion in the agenda of the Luso-Spanish Summit the theme of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and the need for its closure. The government didn't. At the end of the Iberian Summit, Mr Prime Minister, on the closure of the nuclear power plant, declared permanently to the social communication: "We would not today deal with what we have been dealing with many times in the past and which, on the issues that have been raised, have been resolved and well resolved". The Government was absolutely indifferent to the political consensus established in the Assembly of the Republic, was absolutely indifferent to the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic and was absolutely indifferent to the concerns expressed by all political forces with parliamentary seats. The Government has disrespected the Assembly of the Republic, the representative sovereignty body of all Portuguese. Thus, in constitutional and regulatory terms, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary expresses its protest to the Government for its omissive behaviour at the Iberian Summit by refusing, on its own initiative, to address the issue of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and, in particular, the need for its closure.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u118	We turn to the vote on vote No 320 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protest for the absence of the Almaraz nuclear power plant process in 29. the Luso-Spanish Bilateral Summit ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] [[It took place on 29 and 30 April to 29th Luso-Spanish Summit in Vila Real. This initiative has been gaining consistency and frequency over the years, with the main objective of strengthening the bilateral relationship between our two countries and contributing to greater diversification of cooperation in the most diverse areas. The strategic complicity that has existed between Portugal and Spain has allowed the two countries to affirm their positions at European level and to go further in the multidimensional deepening of their relationship in continuous dialogue. It is, through this permanent dialogue, marked by summits and meetings at all levels, constructive solutions have been found for the major issues of common interest but also for incidents of an episodic nature. That is why we were puzzled that the two countries had not taken advantage of the Summit to examine the issues relating to the Spanish nuclear power plant in Almaraz, located just over 100 kilometres from the Portuguese border. It seems unacceptable to us that a high-level meeting does not serve as an appropriate time to discuss at the bilateral political-diplomatic level a matter that has been the focus of disagreement between Portugal and Spain and, much less, it is not part of the agenda. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, decided to present its protest vote for the absence of discussion of the topic on the nuclear power plant in Almaraz at the 29th Luso-Spanish Summit, expressing its disapproval for the lack of proposals by the Portuguese Government and guarantees of closure by the Spanish authorities.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u119	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u120	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u121	Mr President, to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u122	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 321 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings by the Joint Declaration of the XXIX Luso-Spanish Summit ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and votes against the PS.]] [[The XXIX Luso-Spanish Summit discussed a wide range of topics of common interest, including cross-border cooperation, environment and energy, infrastructure and transport, tourism, internal security and civil protection, work and social security, science and technology, security and defence, European Union and international agenda. The topics discussed value relations between both States, in a climate of mutual trust and cooperation. Although the theme of the closure of the Almaraz Central does not specifically consist of the Joint Declaration, and despite bilateral contacts on this subject, the inclusion of point 12 should be emphasized, where it is read that the Summit 'allowed both countries to reaffirm their firm commitment to deepen the exchange of energy information in a spirit of dialogue and transparency within the EU and to develop bilateral consultations whenever necessary, particularly in cases with a potential cross-border impact'. Moreover, in point 13 it can be read that "the importance of defending and promoting a sustainable energy model (...) has been stressed. The increase in renewable energy will ensure a more balanced energy mix in the Iberian Peninsula and contribute to the decarbonisation process of the economies of the two countries". Strengthening the commitment to information sharing, the two countries assume that issues relating to the operation of any infrastructure of this kind should be the target of joint analysis, particularly in cases where a potential cross-border impact appears. The promotion of a decarbonization agenda enables us to face the future with increased awareness of the environmental challenges we face. Thus, in constitutional and regulatory terms, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the Government's Joint Declaration resulting from the Luso-Spanish Summit, as it opens the door to a new cycle of dialogue, strengthening safer and more sustainable environmental and energy policies for both States, valuing endogenous resources and respecting populations, without compromising economic development.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u123	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u124	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u125	Mr President, to announce that I and Eurico Brillante Dias will deliver a statement of vote on voting Nos 320 and 321 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u126	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u127	Mr President, I would like to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote by the CDS-PP parliamentary group on the vote on vote No 321 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u128	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 529 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for the individual and paid passenger transport activity in vehicles decharacterized from an electronic platform ( TIRPE ) ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the NAP, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. Mrs. Members, if you agree, we shall proceed to the joint vote on the drafts of lein.os 526 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Exercise of the right to petition ( fourth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ) ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), 527 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ) and 528 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Organic Law of the Referendum Regime ( sixth amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April ) ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), generally in the field of expertise and in the overall final vote, with draft resolution No 888 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Channel of Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic's portal and the institutional presence on social networks ( PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ). [[Pause.]] Since there are no objections, we will vote for them. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] It is now time to vote on draft resolution No 593 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include sea cucumber, a holothuriaarguinensis species, in the list of species referred to in the Marine Animal Catch Regulation ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 764 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government stimulate the work of the National Commission for the Coordination and Monitoring of the Implementation of the National Plan for Animal Genetic Resources ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 801 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government concentrate resources on supporting the process of regulating livestock holdings ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 741 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government restore access to the northern and southern entrance knots ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 825 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a mass disclosure campaign for agricultural insurance and the increase in coverage of special insurance ( CDS-PP ) for which the Socialist Party requested the breakdown of the vote under points 1 and 2. We shall therefore vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u129	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u130	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u131	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the initiative we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u132	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We moved on to draft resolution No 835 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government support farmers in the Vouga Valley and promote an adequate collection insurance system for small farms ( BE ) for which the CDS-PP requested the breakdown of the vote in paragraph 4. So let's start by voting on point 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of draft resolution No 835 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 867 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to ensure the availability in pharmacy of generic medicines to ensure that pensioners and future pensioners in the plant industry do not have to bear any costs in their purchase ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstains from BE and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u133	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u134	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u135	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u136	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We moved on to draft resolution No 68/ XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Standardisation of the application of the special retirement scheme for children's educators and teachers of 1. the basic school cycle of public education in a monodocnic system that completed the primary and childhood education teaching in 1975 and 1976 (BE) (the initial text was replaced at the author's request). The PS asked for the breakdown of the vote on the points. We shall vote on point 1. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the Member of PS António Cardoso and the PS and PS abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the Member of PS António Cardoso and the abstention of the PSD.]] The general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on Bill No 38 / XIII ( 2 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Approves standards for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke and measures to reduce demand related to the dependence and cessation of consumption, covering the concept of smoking new non-burnt tobacco products that produce aerosols, vapours, gases or inhalable particles and reinforcing measures to apply to these new products in the field of exposure to environmental smoke, advertising and promotion (the author withdrew his initiative in favour of the replacement text). [[The vote was put to the vote by the PS, PS, PAN and 2 members of the CDS-PP (João Rebelo and Telmo Correia), votes against 1 Member of the PS (Isabel Alves Moreira) and 5 Members of the CDS-PP (Ana Rita Bessa, Antonio Carlos Monteiro, João Pinho de Almeida, Patrícia Fonseca and Pedro Mota Soares) and abstentions by BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the same replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on Bill No 38 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). The Bureau was informed by Mr Nuno Magalhães that the CDS gave its Members freedom of vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, PAN and 2 Members of the CDS-PP (João Rebelo and Telmo Correia), votes against 1 Member of the PS (Isabel Alves Moreira) and 11 Members of the CDS-PP (Alvaro Castello-Branco, Ana Rita Bessa, Antonio Carlos Monteiro, Cecilia Meireles, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Hélder Amaral, Ilda Araújo Novo, João Pinho de Almeida, Patrícia Fonseca, Pedro Mota Soares and Vânia Dias da Silva) and abstentions from BE, PCP, The Greens, from 1 Member of the PS (Wanda Guimarães) and from 4 Members of the CDS-PP (Asunção Cristas, Filipe Lobo d'Ávila, Isabel Galicia Neto and Nuno Magalhães).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u137	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u138	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u139	Mr President, it is to announce that on the vote we have just taken I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u140	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u141	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u142	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u143	Mr President, it is also to announce to the House that I will deliver a vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u144	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u145	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u146	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u147	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u148	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u149	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u150	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u151	Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u152	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we will now proceed to the general vote on the text of the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Education and Science, on the drafts of lein. 440 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determination of housing prices and meals for higher education students according to the social support indexer ( PSD ), 469 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Setting of housing and meals prices to public higher education students based on the social support indexer ( CDS-PP ) and 473 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Automatic indexation of the maximum meal and accommodation prices for students in higher education than the indexer of social support ( PS ) ( the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the adoption of paragraphs 72 to 82 of the Journal for plenary meetings of 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26 and 27 April 2017. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u153	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u154	Is Mrs. Deputy asking for a word to talk about the Diaries?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u155	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u156	So if you don't mind, we will finish the votes and then I will give you the floor. Mrs. Members, we have an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u157	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 3 of the Central Cable and Criminal Court of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Beja, Case No 2 / 14.0T8ORQ, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro do Carmo ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings, as a witness, within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You now have the floor to Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u159	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on the drafts of lein. 440, 469 and 473 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-01.u160	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on 7 June, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. and will be on the agenda, in addition to the election of a member to the Portuguese Information System Supervisory Board ( CFSIRP ), a marking of the Left Block on labour issues, which may eventually be voted on at the end of the debate. Thank you all very much and a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 16 minutes.]]
