ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before opening the agenda, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Parliament's appraisals 47 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 117 / 2017 of 12 September amending the sanctions regime applicable to breaches of collective passenger transport ( PCP ), 48 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 96 / 2017 of 10 August establishing the scheme for private electrical installations ( PCP ), 49 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 97 / 2017 of 10 August establishing the arrangements for fuel gas installations in buildings ( CFP ), 50 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 93 / 2017 of 1 August establishing the public service for electronic notifications associated with the single digital address ( PSD ) and 51 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October establishing the social benefit for inclusion ( BE ). The draft resolutions of 1081 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, for ratification, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, adopted by the United Nations, on 7 July 2017 ( PCP ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 1082 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a new class of vehicles for the application of toll rates, corresponding exclusively to motorcycles ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1083 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a national documentation centre on Portuguese emigration ( PSD ), 1084 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing the weight of school backpacks ( PAN ), 1085 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure effective compliance with working hours and the reconciliation of work with family life ( CFP ), 1086 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, at the social level, a debate with a view to including the right to disconnect either in the Labour Code or in the collective regulatory instruments of work ( CDS-PP ) and 1087 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Report measures to reduce the weight of school backpacks ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. The projects of lein. 638 / XIII ( 3 ) were also included in the Table. ( a ) — Ensures the public disclosure of the use of captives in the budgets of entities which form the direct and indirect administration of the State ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 639 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Making the labelling and supervision rules concerning the presence of genetically modified organisms more transparent, ensuring consumer access to information ( NAP ), 640 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 7 February 2009, conferring the right of the worker to professional disconnection ( PAN ), 641 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Right to information to consumers on genetically modified foods ( GMOs) ( second amendment of Decree-Law No 72 / 2003 of 10 April 2003 ) ( BE ), 642 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creation of the order of physical therapists ( CDS-PP ), 643/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Qualifies as a very serious counter-ordination the violation of the rest period ( Tenth Fifth Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( The Greens) and 644 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Procedures at 13. the amendment of the Labour Code, strengthening the worker's right to rest ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the agenda. of the first point consists of vote No 416 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the fires that broke out on 15 and 16 October, presented by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. After reading the vote myself, the various parliamentary groups and the NAP will have time to intervene. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin to read the vote, which is of the following content: "It was with great dismay that the Members of the Assembly of the Republic witnessed the consequences of the various forest fires which, in the past 15 and 16 October, broke out in our country. So far, it is known that 42 people died, 71 were injured, including firefighters. Our first thoughts are, of course, with the families of the victims and with all those who, on the ground, fought the flames and helped the affected populations. According to Civil Protection, the worst days of the year in terms of fires were. We are talking about more than 700 fires deflashed in two days, the result of a conjugation of factors, where the phenomenon of climate change has particular emphasis, as well as the forest planning of our country. In Portugal alone, more than 316 000 hectares have been burned this year, but, worse, more than 100 people have been killed since June. With respect to your memory, we can't keep our arms crossed. The reconstruction and repairs that are due must move forward. Portugal, which is proud to be a modern state of democratic and European law, must be prepared to deal with this threat, with appropriate models of organization and coordination, prevention and combat. To the families and friends of the victims, to the authorships of the municipalities affected, as well as to the firefighters and other structures of Civil Protection, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest sorrow and its deepest solidarity". Parliamentary groups and the NAP now have time to speak on this vote. The first intervention is for Mr André Silva of the NAP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We strengthen our vote of regret for the human and non-human victims of the various fires that, in the last 15th and 16th October, broke out in our country and expressed deep respect and solidarity for the people who have faced the flames and who now face the challenge of finding forces to rebuild their lives in the face of such losses and destruction. We also want to express our appreciation and gratitude to the professionals and civilians who, on the ground, have gone beyond their limits to provide the best support to the populations. I returned today from Viseu district and, more than the political work that may have been done to understand causes, challenges and the main difficulties with people and local leaders, I bring frustration and impotence from those who know that words do not change reality alone. People are scared and confused, lost loved ones, lost livelihoods, all know someone affected somehow, big and small businesses totally destroyed and deal with disturbing memories of the advancement of flames, worthy of a scenario of fiction. Unfortunately, it is not fiction, it is a hard lesson of reality about the various decades of dislocation with our forest, which needed to destroy lives, housing and business to wake up the political class and all of us, as a society and members of a shared culture, for the seriousness of putting economic interests above the common good. In addition to the structural aspects we have all diagnosed, there are other serious gaps in the defense of communities and there are cultural issues that only with a level of involvement, of very strong proximity and of public investment, especially in regions affected by the depopulation in the country, can be changed. But at this moment our main attention is in the way we can all organize to support the reconstruction and physical, emotional, psychological and material recovery of those for whom tomorrow still has no meaning and who need to understand how to access, immediately, the various supports that are already being directed to these populations and to ensure that the bureaucratic and administrative discoordinations that so often delay and hinder effective assistance to those who need it most are not repeated. The NAP will continue to be part of the solutions and to collaborate on the path of recovery and profound changes that all — I repeat, all — need to take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u6	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs Deputies and others. Members: The country's feeling is of great dismay at what happened in the past 15 and 16 and also in conjunction with what happened during the summer, mainly in Pedrogão Grande. This feeling of great dismay is also a conscience that it is necessary to do a lot for nothing similar to happen again in the country. It is this combination of efforts that we all have to make in order to achieve very concrete, effective and visible results. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are many solutions that are being undertaken in the paper and they must be put on the ground. The great word of The Greens at this stage of discussion of the vote is, of course, of condolences to the families of the mortal victims—who are many—of great solidarity with all those who have been wounded, of great solidarity with all those who have lost everything they have managed to build in life and with all those who have lost their form of subsistence, but it is also of praise to all those who, intense and hard-to-day, have fought this tragedy of forest fires, this drama that has struck the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, The Greens have long warned in the Assembly of the Republic that we are faced with a real phenomenon of climate change. It is not a theoretical matter, it is a practical matter that we are all feeling in daily life and the trend is even for it to intensify, for climate extremes to intensify. Therefore, we need to strengthen the answers to address this real intensification of climate change, we need to have real adaptation processes. Our forest is a space that has to be the target of this real adaptation and we must make efforts so that the depopulation of the rural world does not continue to be the intensity with which it has happened in this country. We must make efforts to make our forest, in fact, more resistant, because it makes it more resilient, it is also to make the country safer for its people. Businesses that are made around monocultures of fast growing species have to be equationd and see how they are done. There is much to say, Mr. Prime Minister, but surely there is much more to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u7	by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs Deputies and others. Members : In the face of the tragedy that occurred with the fires of the past 15 and 16 October, our first words are, of course, of sorrow and solidarity to the victims, to their families and to all those who, on the ground, have fought the fires, who have given and continue to support the victims and to seek to minimize the suffering of those who have been struck by the fires. To populations, firefighters, armed forces, security services and forces, health and social security services, public, associative and solidarity structures, which were involved either in fighting fires or in supporting victims, to all a word of our recognition and solidarity for their generous and self-sufficient action. The consequences and proportions of these fires and the tragedy that led to them add to the one that was already a disaster of unprecedented dimensions in our country, which took place in June, with the fire of Great Pedragon. Once again, there is an urgent need for a prompt and effective response to the victims, as well as the full clarification of all the circumstances involved in the fires, in particular as regards the clearance of the criminal responsibilities that may exist. The law on support and compensation for the victims of fires, approved in this House last Friday, being promulgated briefly by the President of the Republic, should be implemented quickly for support and compensation to the victims of these fires. This is an indispensable measure to ensure the immediate support and assistance of the victims and their families, in health care, in housing assurance, in the reconstruction of the subsistence conditions of those who lost them, in the recovery of the normal routine of the affected populations, insofar as the consequences of the fires have not made this impossible, especially by the loss of lives. The Assembly of the Republic and the Government must reverse the options of decades of right-wing policy, which have accumulated in the Portuguese forest the problems that are at the root of such a tragedy. The measures which have long been identified as necessary for the management of forests and the prevention of forest fires must be implemented, not with the approval of more laws, but with the allocation of the budgetary resources necessary to comply with those already existing. It is necessary to strengthen the State where it has been dismantled or reduced to minimum, it is necessary to strengthen public services and support the productive sectors to ensure the fixing of populations and the occupation of the interior, contrary to the logics of desertification and abandonment of the territory and of isolation of populations. It is necessary to defend the people and the development of the country against the trade and financial criteria that, particularly from the European Union, impose on us the liquidation of agriculture and livestock, or deficit reductions, in complete disregard for our needs. None of these issues can be left open and the CFP will be for the measures that need to be implemented at the time that this debate has to be held. We regret that PSD and CDS have not allowed respect for national mourning in the same way that this happened in relation to the fire of Pedrogão. This is the option of PSD and CDS, not the option of PCP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u9	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u10	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs Deputies and others. Members: This is the time for dismay, mourning and grief. Four months only after the tragedy and the 64 deaths of Great Pedragon, the country was once again confronted with horror, with a hell of fire and death. Only four months later! And that is not indifferent. Now, and this time, 42 people died and there are 71 wounded, those whose recovery we obviously can only wish for and some of whom unfortunately in a situation of gravity. What we saw in the district of Coimbra, in Oliveira do Hospital, in Arganil, in Pampilhosa da Serra or in Penacova, in Santa Comba Dão, in them in Carregal do Sal, in Tondela, in Oliveira de Frades or in Vouzela, in the district of Viseu, in Guarda or in Seia, in addition to the event in Pedrogão, which gives 107 deaths in a single calendar year, was in a country accustomed to dramas of rural fires and fires every year, an unprecedented and unprecedented tragedy. They impress us very much, and I am sure that none of us, nor any of those who hear us at this time, will forget — the images of the Portuguese and Portuguese faced with such a tragedy. Our fellow citizens in hand, often with no more than a cliff, walking on roads where the fire was on either side and on the other, fire which, this time, reached urban areas or the outskirts of urban areas and which destroyed industrial areas, are images that we will never forget. And we think that, four months after Pedrogão Grande, this time, Mr. President, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole country was Pedragon Grande. All Portugal, this time, was Pedrogão Grande. The word today, of course, is of sorrow, of dismay. Despite the victims, sorrow and solidarity with the families who are crying at the moment, solidarity with the firefighters, with the civil protection agents, with the autarchs of this country, with those who, in the field, have tried to reduce this enormous tragedy. As we said here, when we spoke about Pedrogan, once again, the country, the Portuguese, the populations will cry, but they will rise. Resilience in our country is a way of life. Once again, these populations will rise. What happened was the result of extreme factors, but it was also the result of a complete failure of the State. People are going to get up, it is not even necessary to recommend their resilience, because what we saw was a tremendous bravery and a huge bravery, particularly firefighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u11	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u12	Let us not say again, as we said four months ago, that this cannot be repeated, because it has been repeated. And that's a lot of the drama.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u13	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This is a regret vote that should not take place. No country should rise to witness their deaths in situations as difficult as those that have occurred in the past. Adding these last days to the summer, with the time of the fires, more than 100 people lost their lives in Portugal, in these fires, men, women and children who ask more than our sorrow to respect their memory. The sadness also exists, solidarity for those who lost their lives, for their families, for so many professionals, volunteers, just neighbors who gave their best to save what they could, especially the lives of those who could save. And this solidarity is what makes the union of a country, which requires its political leaders a greater commitment to its protection than has happened in recent decades. This year, in the last few days, the state has failed its own. And when that happens, none of us can sleep in peace. The requirement, therefore, is whether or not we will be up to what they require of us, at what best we have to give to those who expect nothing better than that, because that is what they demand. The requirement to pass over the party game correqueiro, to pass over the reports that do not leave the paper, to pass over the laws that are not complied with and that, at each non-compliance, put the lives of the people concerned at stake. This challenge is the unique challenge of those who want to respect those who have lost their lives, of those who know, as I think all of us know, what it is to call a family member and not know if he is alive, what it is to be without communications, no electricity, no water, when that huge beast hits us at the door. If we have, in fact, some requirement is before the history of our country, right now, answering how we want to be remembered from here to 5, to 10, to 50 years. Whether like those and those who did to keep up with those who expected all of them, or whether of those who failed, when the country, its relatives, its neighbors, its population asked for much more and better.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u15	You have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u16	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Unfortunately, Parliament is once again called upon to express its solidarity with events whose repetition brings us back a pain that we all wish we could not feel again. Today, on this day of national mourning, this House must fulfil, in the head, its painful duty to express its grief and express its deep solidarity to all and to each of the members of the families of the victims, but also to all Portuguese. It's just that we were all wounded in this messed up tragedy. I leave here, on behalf of the Socialist Party, the record of this feeling. From village to village, from parish to parish, in all places in Portugal where this scourge reached the hearts of the Portuguese and stole lives overcome by an unheard of brutality, the socialists were and are next to those who have suffered, those who suffer and those who feed the hope of not suffering again. We felt great regret that we found the worst way that, over the years, situations, with the danger and the terrible consequences that we have endured, have not been effectively prevented or avoided. We feel that the country, the state, the government or public services and systems can no longer fail. We feel we all have to find ways to make the difference. We feel that the mission to which we should devote ourselves for these purposes is not that of the waste of disputes without connection, nor that of the restricted party struggle, but that of the collective struggle to events and devastations such as those we have experienced and that can be reduced in their damage. We feel that democracy itself depends on this discernment and the success of these more active and constructive confluences. We are therefore sure that, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, nothing can go as far as possible. Allow me, too, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a personal record. in the exercise of other public functions, I also went through painful experiences, in which I provided several times this bitter gall of the death of friends and fellow citizens. on the last day of this month, for example, will complete-CL- there will be 20 years of the tragedy of the parish of the Hot Ribeira, on the island of São Miguel, where they died, crushed by the mountain, 29 people, many of whom I held with my hands, aged between 3 weeks and 76 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u17	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u18	I know well, therefore, how these sufferings also make us suffer and can make us more vigilant and determined. I conclude, Mr President, by recalling that organizing, coordinating, preventing, combating, as is said in the vote of regret in this House, are the tasks to which everyone, but all, we have a duty to correspond to the best results, in this new cycle that we have an obligation to try, as Mr President of the Republic said. Mr President, this day of pain is therefore also a day of a necessary journey.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u19	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group is associated with this vote of regret with profound pain, with a word of enormous solidarity with all those who have fought the fires in recent months, with a word of dismay for all those who have seen their lives in the fires that took place this summer and also, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with a word of great indignation. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: We are very available not to stay in history as those who have done nothing in the face of these circumstances, but today we know that we have already been in the story for failing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u21	Mrs. Members, timed out for speeches, we shall vote vote 416 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the fires that broke out on 15 and 16 October, presented by the President of RA. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is part of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. As you know, in this case, the debate begins with the question stage of the honourable Members, followed by their answers from the Prime Minister. The order of speeches is changing from debate to debate and today it is up to the PS Parliamentary Group to start the debate, so Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, wanted to begin by associating myself with the words said recently by Mr Carlos César and the other Members who spoke in the representation of their parliamentary groups. Therefore, my first words are for the victims of the tragedy that occurred in past Sundays and Mondays: of sympathy for the families of those who lost their lives and of solidarity for the wounded, for those who had their goods destroyed, for those who suffered hours of distress with the situation of family and friends. The memory of one and the suffering of the other calls us all, the government and Parliament, for action. I also wanted to greet all those, volunteers or professionals, who gave up their efforts to fight fires and help their victims. We are aware that, on that Sunday, the risk conditions and the difficulties of combat were extreme. This is partly due to the accumulation of these risk factors in Portuguese forests for years. It is also likely, as experts warn us, that we are witnessing in our territory the new but lasting consequences of the climate change process. The process of forest reform, whose public discussion was initiated by this government last year, could of course not have had any effect on reducing these risk factors this year and we must wait a few years until its effects become felt. It is thus likely that it is almost inevitable that we will have to face similar situations again in the near future. We must accept this, but if we have to accept that there will be days when nature will confront us with these extreme situations, of course we must not accept that the consequences of loss of goods and loss of life are inevitable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is to this end, Prime Minister, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the words of the Prime Minister that nothing can be left and nothing will remain as in the past. I therefore believe that the Government is facing a double urgency: on the one hand, to deal with the damage and to support the victims, on the other hand, to take the necessary measures, at the level of civil protection and prevention and the fight against forest fires, so that these tragic consequences can be avoided in a near extreme risk situation. We know, Mr Prime Minister, that, as a meeting of the Council of Ministers on this subject is scheduled to take place next Saturday, it will not be possible to know all the Government's proposals today, and it is understandable that this is because, in this context, the urgency must be tempered with proper weighting. I would therefore like to express our confidence on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that the Government will be able to find the most appropriate measures and will have the capacity to implement them, as well as our willingness to work on the measures which, according to our competences, will be brought to this House, seeking the broadest consensus that will ensure, for the future, the stability of the public policies that are being decided on. I therefore anticipate that we will not be able to hold a debate today that takes into account, as a whole, the Government's proposals for combating forest fires and support for victims. Thanks in advance to all the clarifications that I am in a position to give this matter to this House at the moment, I would like to refer in a second part of my speech to a proposal from the Government that we already know: the proposal from the State Budget for 2018. I would like to welcome the continuity of policies in this budget proposal and, in particular, the continuation of the fundamental objective of reducing public debt. In two years, in the current year and next year, the Government will have reduced the weight of public debt in GDP ( gross domestic product ) by almost 7 percentage points. The target set for 2018 already carries with it the credibility resulting from the fulfilment of the targets of the budget deficit in 2016 and from the expected fulfilment of the targets of the current budget deficit in 2017. I would particularly like to welcome the continuation of the strategy for extending sources of social security financing, including a portion of the current IRC revenue ( corporate income tax ) to the Social Security Financial Stabilization Fund ( FEFSS ). I believe that this provision, combined with the property tax measure proposed by the Government and that last year this House approved, will allow — and the Prime Minister will be able to confirm — to guarantee that this Fund will be sufficient for the foreseeable time horizon. Finally, I would like to point out that the reduction in public debt is consistent with the commitments and strategy initially defined in the Government Programme, commitments and strategies that significantly affect both revenue and expenditure and that in the State budget for 2018, we no longer count on the overtax revenue, which is a reduction in indirect taxes by, inter alia, reviewing the steps of the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) and beginning the process of defrosting progress in the careers of the Public Administration. The reduction in public debt is also achieved by complying with the Basic Social Security Act, by updating pensions resulting from economic growth — from that economic growth which is said to be impossible — thus fulfilling a principle of the Basic Social Security Act calling for the sharing of growth results with the elderly and, therefore, for a desirable equity and intergenerational balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to say here, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, that if the measures proposed by the Government as of next Saturday have to have a budgetary translation already in the implementation of the budget in 2018, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is also available to incorporate the financial consequences of these options already at the stage of the debate on this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u23	To reply, I have the floor of Mr Prime Minister, who I am taking advantage of to congratulate, since I did not do so at the beginning of the sitting because he was not yet present.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade, first of all, allow me to associate, without exception, with all the words expressed here by each of the parliamentary groups on the tragic fires of the last weekend. It is without difficulty that I join each of these words: from consternation to indignation, from solidarity to pain, these are words that the government obviously shares. But the government is not enough to share those words. to the Government, it is necessary to associate these other words that are fundamental: immediate support for the people, who lack support, for the companies, who need to regain the capacity to function, for the farmers, who need to see their productive capacity restored, for the territories, who need to be revitalized, for the autoarches, who need to see their infrastructure rebuilt, for the injured, who need to be cared for, and, of course, for the families, who, being amused today, have the right to demand their repair. We must therefore add to these the words of the immediate answer, but also the words of what is essential and central to do, which are the reforms that will ensure, in a lasting way, that these events cannot take place in Portugal. The question is no longer, today, "what to do? , the question is "how to act? Why the question « how to do it? "it was the one that stood up a few months ago. The Government, acting loyally before the Assembly of the Republic, as it loyally acts before all bodies of sovereignty, has willingly accepted the timely initiative of the main opposition party for the establishment of an independent technical committee. It seemed good to us that the Assembly of the Republic, in its plurality, could designate a set of technicians who made an evaluation of the system and that this committee, complemented by a set of professionals appointed by the Board of Directors, would not only study thoroughly what happened in that fire but, above all, did an analysis of the whole system. I believe that we have had good reasons to support the PPD / PSD initiative, because if there is something we can all be comforted with today, it is with the fact that the technical quality of the members of the Commission, of the unanimity of the decisions they have taken, we have fertile ground to build the broad political consensus that gives sustainability to public policies that are essential. Today, we know that it is not enough to look at climate change, which is not enough to look at the structure of the forest, it is necessary to rebuild a model of prevention and fight against forest fires. And today, it is very clear what is the priority. The priority must be to strengthen the pillar of prevention. What the report presents is clear and unequivocal. As we have always said, we would wait for the report not to postpone what was urgent, but to be able to build on knowledge, weighting and the basis of political consensus, essential for us to be able to make sustainable progress in this process. He therefore said that we would assume all the responsibilities that would result from this investigation. the result of the report is unequivocal that, at various times and circumstances, there were serious failures of the state services and therefore it is up to the State to assume responsibility for the victims of the fires of Pedrogão Grande. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He also said that what would be done was to transform the conclusions and recommendations contained in the Independent Technical Commission Report into an action programme. To that end, we have called on an extraordinary Council of Ministers for the next Saturday to examine this report exclusively and to adopt the measures that will allow words to be moved from action to report, because now the question is not "what to do?" , the answer must be « act ». It's doing what we have to do. I hope that the consensus generated in this House on the initiative of the PPD/PSD to set up the Independent Technical Commission and the consensus generated within the Independent Technical Commission can also support an extended consensus on the measures which, unanimously, this Technical Commission proposes that we adopt. That is what the Government is doing: withdrawing consequences from what has been studied, in order to create structural conditions so that what has happened will not happen again. Like I said, after this summer, nothing can be left like before. It would be intolerable and the way of honoring, effectively, with acts and not with words that suffered, suffers and will suffer is to do what is lacking. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u25	We will move on to the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Hugo Soares has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Prime Minister, our first word goes to the national heroes, those who did not need to hear from the government who had to suffice themselves, those who knew they were fighting alone in the most difficult moments of their lives, the bosses and the employees, who tried to save the industry units where they worked, the farmers, who tried to save their ways of life, the parents, who fled with the children, the elderly, who were abandoned to their lot and who often only tried to fight fire, all those who lost their lives alone and who the State failed, to whom Mr. Prime Minister has failed. I wanted to take on the political responsibility of each and every one of the electors here and, on behalf of my bench, as an electorate, to apologize to the Portuguese. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, if you are already in a position to apologize to the whole country. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u27	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u28	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, I will not play words games. If you want to hear me apologize, I apologize. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If I didn't do it before, it wasn't because I felt less weight in my consciousness,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because I am sure that, like me, anyone who would have been in my office would not have lived all these months without a great deal of weight in consciousness for what happened in Pedrogan and for what happened again last weekend. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, moreover, I know that I will live with the weight in consciousness until the last day of my life. Even today, I have a weight on my conscience by the Judicial Inspector who was killed when I was Minister of Justice, by the PSP agents and chiefs who were shot down when I was Minister of Internal Administration, by the Portuguese and Chilean firefighters who died when I was Minister of Internal Administration. It has never happened to me — and I fear that it will never happen to me — the weight on my conscience. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, in my vocabulary I reserve the word'sorry' for my private life. As Prime Minister, what I use is the word « responsibility ». [[PSD protests.]] As I said, I would assume all the responsibilities that would be demonstrated by the Public Prosecutor when one day the investigation was completed, by the IGAI (General Inspection of Internal Administration ) or by the Report of the Independent Technical Commission, whose party proposed and which this House created. It would have been a huge disrespect for the work of the Independent Technical Commission to have anticipated their judges. [[PSD protests.]] That is why the report was well known last week and badly obtained an opinion from the Legal Centre of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers took on the extra-contractual civil responsibility of the State and transmitted it to those who should do so first: the victims' families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, I do not listen to others, I assume my responsibilities as Prime Minister and I always apologize as a citizen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u29	Mr Hugo Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I regret that it has been necessary to arrive here for the Prime Minister to apologize to the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u31	Mr. Prime Minister is right: he should and should have apologized to the country and should have already assumed his responsibility. It leaped through the eyes of everyone who was responsible for what happened to the State, that those people to whom the State failed should be repaired in their damage, in their losses by the State. The PSD did not need to have proposed an independent technical committee to be your lifeline now for everything you want to present as an action measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u33	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u34	We didn't have to get here, it didn't have to be four months since the Pedragon tragedy so that Mr. Prime Minister wouldn't have done anything, he could have fixed those lives as little as possible. On the other hand, last Friday, you voted against this extrajudicial mechanism with which you now fill your mouth and say that you will bring in to repair the lives of these people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it was not necessary to wait two years to discuss the registration, when a year and a half ago the PSD had presented it in this House. It was not necessary to have waited two years to discuss the low-density territories, when we had done it in this House. We didn't have to wait longer to do what we needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u35	What about your time? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u36	Mr. Prime Minister, the forest is the same as, for example, five years ago and it is up to the State to manage it. The pinhal of Leiria has pine and not eucalyptus—albeit still today, the Minister of Agriculture said that the reports reported that he was in a position — and it burned! There's always been heat and wind. What failed was the command, it was the prevention, it was your defect, it was the civil protection, it was your incompetence, Mr. Prime Minister! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And political responsibility, Prime Minister, we all have. The time has come for you to take over yours and no longer hide behind Mr. Minister of Internal Administration. Mr Prime Minister, you lost the legislative elections and wanted to be the Prime Minister of Parliament. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u37	You have now lost the confidence of the Portuguese and lost the confidence of the President of the Republic yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u38	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u39	Mr. Prime Minister, for once being a statesman, do what political responsibility compels you and bring this House a motion of confidence to prove to the country which continues to have Parliament with you. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u40	Ah! He's come where he wants to!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u41	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u42	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, I see that he has finally come to what he really cares about. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the Government responds to this House and next week, at the initiative of the CDS-PP, a motion of censure will be discussed with this Government. next week, the House will decide whether the government deserves to be censored or if it has conditions and parliamentary support to continue to carry out its duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u43	You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u44	As Mr President of the Republic said yesterday, the vote of this House will prove to be one of two things: either the fall of the Government or the confirmation of the political confidence of this House in the exercise of the functions of this Government. next week, we will have the debate on the CDS-PP initiative and we will certainly not now anticipate what the CDS has already planned to mark for next Tuesday. On what I would like to talk about, Mr President, so that we do not deviate from what is really important, it is in support of people. It is not necessary to confuse compensation due to damage with the necessary support for families, businesses and people. And these supports have not begun now nor have they waited for anything. on June 18, I was in Pedrogão Grande meeting with all the Sr. Presidents of the House and with several members of the Government and we have put in place the mechanisms to ensure social security support, support for agriculture, support for house reconstruction. All of this has been and is happening. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Yesterday, I was in Oliveira at the Hospital and in Louisiana, meeting with Mr. Presidents of the House to deal with what is now needed to resolve in relation to their territories. Today, the Minister for Agriculture, the Deputy Minister, the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security are visiting all the municipalities reached to, together with the city halls, define what is a priority. And that's what we need to do. We do not confuse immediate support for compensation due to property and moral damage suffered by fatal victims. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u45	The PSD Parliamentary Group continues to speak, through Mr Hugo Soares. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have many years of active policy. You started in politics many years ago and for your own gaudio he says it started at the age of 14. Mr Prime Minister knows, as no one does, that it is not the same as the discussion of a motion of censure and the presentation of a motion of confidence in this Parliament itself. You have lost the opportunity to show that you lead, that you have the confidence of this Parliament, that you have the confidence of the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Green Party. You are afraid to present this motion of confidence because you do not trust your parliamentary partners. [[PSD applause.]] You have lost the confidence of the country, you have lost the confidence of the President of the Republic, you have lost the confidence of Parliament! in fact, Mr. Prime Minister is no longer doing anything there and he would do a favor to the country if he submitted his resignation to the President of the Republic. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we are all very available—we have been since the first hour—to help in the solutions that the country needs to overcome the suffering of all, but it is not running forward that we forget what happened. Take your responsibility for once! You know, it's not superb, it's not smiling in the corners of the lips, it's not saying "don't make me laugh at this hour", it's not that kind of political game that the Portuguese are waiting for. I can tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that I have also been fighting fires, hoses in my hand, in my Town Hall, at the door of my house. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u47	But I do not do so to tell you that I am more than the others or that I am more than Mr. Prime Minister. I do so to tell you that I did it only because the State failed and you are responsible for the conduct of public policy. You must assume your responsibility! And I ask you again: does the Prime Minister have the courage or not to present to this Parliament a motion of confidence? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u48	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u49	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, I am sure that the last thing the Portuguese want or admit is to see the seriousness of the issues that have brought us here today with debates of this political nature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I admit that you have felt overcome by the CDS-PP initiative. CDS-PP merit! [[P.S.'s applause.]] with regard to me and the government, we view the CDS-PP initiative as politically framed in the Constitution, a constitutional right, and here we will be on Tuesday for the debate of the motion of censure. But, Mr President, motions of trust only present those who feel insecure about confidence, and the government is not unsure about the confidence this House puts in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u50	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u51	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was the sovereign of those who think that everything can, it was the sovereign of those who think that they need not prove anything to anyone who has led to all this happening. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u52	If Mr. Prime Minister didn't have the sovereign politics he showed here would have listened to what we said four months ago, he would have heard what all the agents said and wouldn't have been contemptuous and negligent in preparing this weekend of fires throughout the country. That was the reason for what happened: your implacency and your neglect! Mr. Prime Minister, the great difference between us is, in fact,... [[Huge!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u53	...giant, giant! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u54	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u55	You know, Prime Minister, we don't hide behind common places, nor are we afraid of words, we're not afraid of politics, and this is the House where it must be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u57	And Mr. Prime Minister is hiding. We all remember, when he was the leader of the opposition, when he was a parliamentary leader, how he did his opposition. I do not take your lessons on this matter! I want to tell you, Prime Minister, that I also do not take your lessons on how to help people. I heard your parliamentary leader yesterday—he forgot to give you an indication—to say that he would lead our initiative on the extrajudicial mechanism to help the people who needed it most because the state and the courts first needed to say who was responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u58	That's fake! Upstairs, he's deaf!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u59	The Prime Minister has just disauthorised, because it would be good for him to come to Parliament to make that political number. Mr. Prime Minister, today you have confessed that you do not have the courage to bring a motion of confidence to this Parliament, because you also know that your sovereign shame in the lack of confidence that the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Green Party have in their government. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, I wanted to say to you, Prime Minister, something very simple.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u60	Are you going to ask for a referendum? Is it now?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u61	A few years ago, there was a Prime Minister who told the country that, if it was necessary to lose elections to do what the Portuguese needed to do, then fuck the elections. I want to tell Mr. Prime Minister, without fear of words, that you, in order to remain in power, say: « Let the Portuguese fuck up». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u62	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u63	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, accept that the Government responds exclusively to the Assembly of the Republic and that it does so in accordance with the Constitution, of course, through the initiative of motions of censure, as the CDS presented, is not sovereign, it is simply to accept, responsibly, the constitutional game. That's how the Constitution works! I am well aware that the legitimacy of this government is exclusively parliamentary. It is because there is a majority of Members against a minority of the opposition that this government exists and has the legitimacy to carry out its duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] on the day when that majority ceases to exist, the government will cease to exist. That is what comes directly from the Constitution. And both the rejection of a motion of confidence and the approval of a motion of censure. If the motion of censure is adopted, the Government will fall; if it is not approved, as the President of the Republic said yesterday, the Government will be renewed and strengthened its political legitimacy. That's it, and we'll be here next Tuesday. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I believe that the Assembly of the Republic already has for the overall final vote the final text which resulted from several legislative initiatives and which aims, precisely, to create an extrajudicial mechanism for reparation and support... In fact, they tell me that it has already been approved. All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u64	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u65	What I said today to the Committee on the Monitoring of Victims' Families was that, with regard to fatal victims, we are available to add a mechanism that will make it easier to assume responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u66	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u67	I'm done now, Mr. President. But what is recorded, Mr President, with all honesty, is that, after several speeches you have made here, nothing said about the essential issue that was important for the PPD/PSD to clarify: whether or not the PPD/PSD is reflected in the conclusions and recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission that this Assembly of the Republic constituted, and on a proposal from VV. Ex..
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u68	I ask you to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u69	Will they support, support or not support the reform of the forest fire prevention and control system? That's the question that matters, these ideas are that they matter to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u70	The Parliamentary Group of the Left Block follows. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u71	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, it weighs on us the tragedy that has struck the country, because the State has failed. You failed the one who lost his life, the one who got hurt. The state failed those who were alone to face the fire, to whom it was fought without means, to whom it lost everything and to whom it walked on ashes today. It has failed the State and, therefore, responsibility is political. It's from many governments, including the current one, it's from many parliamentary majorities, including the current one. They weigh these deaths, this suffering, this destruction on the state and therefore on each of us in Parliament and on each of the members of the government. To recognize this is the minimum level to be able to respond to the country, and the Block recognizes. We therefore extend our condolences to the country, thank you for the generosity and courage of those who fought the fire in such difficult conditions and for those who support the victims and commit ourselves with solidarity to all the affected throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u73	But we have to do more! Yesterday, the President of the Republic left the question to which we must answer: if we are able to open a new cycle, a cycle capable of rebuilding confidence and security, and undertake the enormous task before us to support those who have lost everything, replanting forests, recovering the country. If everything fails it is because everything must be different from the forest to civil protection, and the proposal that the Left Block presents today, here, is not original, it is to which specialists, over time, have submitted. In 2014, after a committee has long studied the fires and heard numerous specialists, we agreed here in Parliament a recommendation to articulate forest defense and fight fires and study the new demands caused by climate change. The report on Pedrogon deepens this recommendation and proposes that structural prevention be concentrated in the same entity, i.e. spatial planning; cyclical prevention, forest cleaning, roads, surveillance; and fire control. This report, by the Independent Technical Commission appointed by Parliament and the Board of Directors, shows that the model that puts everything on the fight and nothing on prevention, which provides support for forest and meteorology specialists, which does not provide the necessary means and professionalism to combat effectively fire, has proved completely incapable. in other countries, in Spain, in the United States or Australia, countries with similar problems but with less area burned in relative terms, this is: there is a structure that combines forest and fire fighting, priority to prevention, combat organized by those who know about the forest. Let's hear the experts, learn from the rest of the world and have the courage to make a difference. The Minister resigned, it was inevitable! But there is no need to resign the model that failed, to build a new one. Mr President of the Republic is right. We need a new cycle and, on our part, we answer the concrete questions you asked: "What? “ Who? ” , "how? and "when does this new cycle serve?" Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” What? A new structure of responsibility in the government, which brings together land planning, forest policy and fire control. How? By articulating what has been disjointed, with more means, much more professionalization and with the humility of learning from specialists and listening to populations. Who? New leaders, with the ability to recognize the permanent state of climate exception in which we live and with the credibility to dialogue with the country and to make courageous decisions in the face of the interests installed. When? From now on, support those who need, compensate those who must be compensated, rebuild productive capacity and employment, prevent new fire victims and new environmental catastrophes resulting from what has already been burned, ensure investigation of forest crimes and impose rules so that no one will win the misfortune of everyone. in the medium term, register, take care of land without owner, clean the forest and prevent fires. in the long term, reverse the abandonment of the territory and build a new, more resilient and safe forest. The Block here is available to debate and support this change. We've always been! For years now, and still this year, we have spent the winter proposing more forest slags, more surveillance and forest reform. After Pedrogão, we asked for a new civil protection plan that would be able to respond with the safety of the population in a year of extreme drought and all dangers. In September and October, we continued the work of forest reform. in the State budget we will once again defend public investment, capable of ensuring the missing means and support that must be priority. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u74	It's the government that has the choice. Today, as never before, the country is available for the necessary changes; today, as never before, the country demands these changes and tomorrow, as never before, the country will penalize those who did nothing or those who aggravated the problems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u75	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u76	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, acting with responsibility is, as I said, doing what is necessary. And what it is necessary to do is to take advantage of the knowledge that is produced and that is consolidated. The country has changed a lot in the last 10 years and the conditions of the forest and climate have worsened a lot. Just read the report of the Independent Technical Commission on Pedrogon to understand how climate conditions have contributed to that result; just talk to all those who have experienced the drama this weekend; just have the notion that we had projections that went beyond the Aguieira dam, the river, the IP3 and that in half an hour, they consumed almost half of those councils. Yesterday, I spoke with many camera presidents and the report that everyone made to me was quite coincidentally. This means that we cannot ignore that the conditions have changed substantially, so we need to have a system that also changes substantially. I thought that when the Assembly of the Republic, unanimously in the face of a tragedy, defined a methodology of « let's study to act», the commitment that we all had among ourselves was to take advantage of the result of technical knowledge of experts, scientific knowledge, to transform it into policies. That's our assumption, and that's what we're going to do next Saturday. When I say that nothing can stay the same as before, I mean that in fact we have to clearly reshape the whole system. It is not enough to have the basic measures on climate change, we do not have the basic measures on forest reform that we adopted here in July; it is also necessary to reinvent the entire prevention and combat system, and that is why there is clearly a gap that needs to be filled out, and this gap is called for strengthening the prevention aspect. And we must do so in good sense, as the Commission proposes, by not diabolicizing anyone, even those who, in a few hours, are the greatest heroes and then, in other hours, are lovers. No, professional firefighters are not amateurs, they are people who are committed, with great civic sense, to whom we owe a great respect and who we cannot give up in the days when things are not going well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we must be aware that if we want to have a system that is part of the population, the same must also have this component of volunteering, increasingly anchored on their lands, less and less walking from place to place, but which is focused on protecting people, protecting the villages, separating and professionalizing, increasingly, the fight against fires in rural areas. And that is the dual dimension that the report proposes, and we have now, indeed, to make a bridge between the two in order to ensure the proper articulation. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, as you know, the 2018 State Budget has been drawn up before the presentation of the Report and has already provided for a significant reinforcement of the funds for forest slags, in fact following a deliberation by the Assembly of the Republic which determined that by the end of 2019 we will have 500 teams of forest slags prepared. Clearly, as Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade said recently, we will have to find the flexibility we need in the parliamentary debate to reorient the financial conditions that allow us to start with a new model. But we must not postpone it to a next budget, we must begin to do so already in the discussion of the 2018 Budget. It is now that we all have an obligation to correspond not only to the memories of the victims, not only to the pain of those who suffer, but also to the competence and technical knowledge of whom you are responsible. Members and the Board of Rectors have appointed to study and do what was recommended for us to do. I say this with the government's will to have had no representation in this Commission. But we know well that in order to act properly, we need to act in accordance with the best scientific knowledge. It is this knowledge that we certainly have in the report and that is what we have to turn into action. That is what we should do and, on our part, that is what we will be focused on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u77	The Left Block Parliamentary Group continues to use the floor, so Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u78	Mr President, Prime Minister, the country looks forward to these decisions and concrete steps at a very short time. There is no excuse to fail, but there is no excuse for whom, nothing to do to solve the structural problems of our forest, for which it has contributed decisively, to exploit its consequences. One thing is to promote the monoculture of the eucalyptus and the extinction of forest services, the inheritance left by the former administration Assumption Christians, which is to reduce the continuous stain of eucalyptus and pinewood and invest in forest surveillance. There is a difference between attacking basic firefighter rights, as did the previous government, or giving them more means and training. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u79	There is a difference between having civil protection and the forest hostage of private interests, as they have done successive PS, PSD and CDS governments, or making difficult choices to respond for the public interest. These are the choices that count and it is because of those choices that the country evaluates the government. The motion of censure of the CDS is presented to us by Assunção Cristas, the « ex-manager of the eucalyptus », who personally had the protection of forest policy for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u80	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u81	I'm almost done, Mr. President. It is shocking that he comes to invoke the responsibilities of others the same Member of the Christian Assumption who, as a minister, was responsible for the complete liberalization of the expansion of the eucalyptus. Who is now censored is the same party that, following the Pedrogon tragedy, did not make a single proposal for forest reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u82	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u83	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. This motion of censure, announced on the first day of national mourning, is a grotesque trick. The demand of the PSD today, a motion of confidence, is an intolerable ridiculous. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The exploitation of the country's vulnerability is deplorable and the Portuguese will not forget it. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u84	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u85	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the new cycle is made not of speeches but of action, and action is what we have to do. We will therefore have to take the necessary measures: on air media management, on communications systems, on strengthening structural prevention, on prevention mechanisms, on the qualification of all actors. That is what we have to do and that is where we have to concentrate, the rest are political play that are truly outraged at the moment and the seriousness of the events we live in. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u86	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u87	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the CDS will continue to work, as always, on structural issues and we will always be constructively committed to reaching broad consensus on these matters, as we have also presented successively in this Parliament. We always said that this area of action could not prejudice the clearance of all responsibilities, without exception, in relation to what had happened in the tragedy of Great Pedrogão. We did not confuse the two plans and the report is very clear: it was possible to have avoided the human tragedy if the right means had been committed, which, moreover, existed and were available at the right time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u89	In the light of the conclusions of the report, what is very clear is the incompetence and discoordination of those who have been appointed by their Government. Is it normal that there was, soon after, one taking on these responsibilities and an apology? It's not normal! Is it normal that only today Mr. Prime Minister here will tell us that he will eventually compensate for human losses when it was clear from that moment on? No, it's not normal! Mr. Prime Minister should have been the first to apologize for the success — the way you have done it here today is no apology anywhere in the world — to apologize for the brutal failure of a structure thought by you in other clothes and appointed by you, by your government, already in these clothes,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u90	...more thinking about friendship than competence. It should have been the first to call on the families of the victims to compensate them, because a State that fails in this way, at the heart of the reason for the existence of the State itself, if it cannot bring the victims and the lives back—because it cannot — at least, it has to compensate for human losses. The irresponsibility that we have witnessed so far, which is played by you and your government, has embarrassed us and embarrassed us. I am a little comforted to know that, after all, it has fallen to reason—maybe someone has rightly called him to attention for this—and today he is already able to tell us a little more about it. But the truth is, what we all thought was impossible to do again happened again, and in the head of all Portuguese people, the question was, how was this possible? After Pedrogon what was required was action ready. That's what I heard from the government. In fact, I have heard the government say many times: 'It's not time for resignation, it's time for action'! And what happened? The total inaction! What happened was that a weakened minister remained — and today we know that it was against his express will — without the ability to trust the Portuguese and without the ability to establish his authority with whom he reports. Is this normal? No, it's not normal, it's a lack of sense of state! And is it normal to have maintained leaders of the ANPC (National Civil Protection Authority) after unequivocal evidence of incompetence? No, it's not normal, Prime Minister. This is to value friends more than the protection of Portuguese! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u91	Is it normal to have spent all the time saying that the severity of the climate could be repeated and then not be careful to extend the means beyond the usual time of these means? But is it normal to have allowed 29 aircraft to be reduced? No, it's not normal, it's irresponsible! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u92	Is it normal, after Pedrogão, not to have intensified the awareness of populations for risk behaviors—and I said so in time—in particular with concrete warnings in the most critical days? No, it's not normal, it's disgusting! Is it normal that the means for last weekend were not guaranteed, in particular, when all weather warnings pointed to maximum risk? It is not normal, Mr. Prime Minister, it is, at least, incurs! And then, when the tragedy repeats itself, when tens of people are lost — and could have been just one, only one that would already be unacceptable — we see the Secretary of State, the Minister and the Prime Minister of Portugal in a succession of absolutely unqualified interventions. What you had to say to the Portuguese was: "Save anyone who can, do not wait by air, do not wait by firefighters!" People died, houses, warehouses and factories were destroyed, as well as our pinhal of Leiria, which, curiously, is pine.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u93	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u94	Again, what stands before all is discoordination, incompetence and total absence of the State. It's not normal for people to pass on a fire-stricken highway. It's not and it can't be! It is not normal for someone in despair to reverse walking on a highway and lose their lives. It can't be normal! It is not normal for people to die in an agricultural warehouse without any aid. It is not normal to see people get to villages and villages in despair without any information and anyone who reassures them. It's not normal, Prime Minister, and it can't be normal! from the government, we saw an attitude that conveyed that everything was normal, that everything was from the climate, as, moreover, I have already told us today, and that everything was from the forest disorder. Four months after the tragedy of Pedrogão and more than 107 dead, you went to the Portuguese on Monday night with exactly the same tone you used before to mention that they were to apply the recommendations of the technical committee, forgetting that much remained to be done in these four months and forgetting that much and much failed. I ask you, what does it tell us here and today again? Will you compensate the 42 victims who died last Sunday? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u95	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u96	Mr President, Mrs Assunción Cristas, what happened is not normal and, above all, it is unacceptable. We can't comply with what happened. It is appropriate not to confuse realism, which should always be transmitted with truth to the Portuguese, with the acceptance of fatality. When I told the Portuguese that it is not possible to ensure that it does not happen again, it is not a fatality that I accept, it is not giving up the duty that I have to do everything so that it does not happen again, it is, on the contrary, to have the consciousness that we all have, in the first place myself, to do everything so that it does not happen again. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we need to be aware of the risks. The first prevention measure is that we have all the awareness of the risks, and this can be politically wrong, it may even be a political mistake, but it is true to the Portuguese. I do not like to make political mistakes, but I would not accept lying to the Portuguese. I don't do that! Madam Member, I would also like to tell you that not everything is the result of climate change. No, it's not all about climate change. That is why I have already said — and I will repeat as many times as necessary — that it is essential to put into practice, implement measures, take action, take out the role of the recommendations and conclusions of another committee designated by this House. I hope that those who have agreed to the creation of the committee and those who have participated in the unanimity of the deliberations of the decision will now also agree to implement and maintain the system that will have to be changed in the future. If there is something that is very clear, things can't stay the way they were before, because the reality involved is completely different today. Mrs Deputy, on your bench, there are people who, like me, also had to manage summers with forest fires and none of these people, like me, had ever been through what we experienced this summer. The fundamental change has to do with changes in the structure and the changes in the environment. The forest is worse each year, the climate is more and more conditional and two years of drought create unique conditions. This is not a question of de-responsibility, on the contrary, it is a condition for us to take responsibility for the need to do more and better today, because the conditions are worse than they were before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, I would like to tell you that since 2007 the law has made fire risk phases more flexible depending on the needs. That is why, last Tuesday, in view of the indications that there would be a change in the risk of fire in the following days, human resources were reinforced in more than 1000 effective ways, the contracts of the air resources that were still available were extended and, on Friday, an operational warning was made by the National Civil Protection Authority, which issued red alerts throughout the country, which strengthened the pre-positions of the means and, contrary to what I have heard, recalled that initiatives, such as the burns and others, were prohibited.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u97	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u98	Don't say no, sir. I have a copy of the notice with me and everybody needs to know what happened. It's very easy to take responsibility. I always take them, I always rush them, but I know that first asks and then shoots and what I have often seen is that, as it is so much the will to shoot, neither the question is formulated, the shot is immediately fired. That's not with me! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u99	It was like the offshore case! They just shot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u100	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u101	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, what has changed this year? The climate was not, because we had years before with exactly the same kind of dramatic conditions; the forest was not, and will not tell me that this year what burned was eucalyptal with a year or two, which, moreover, do not burn. What changed this year? It was competence and coordination.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u103	When Mr. Prime Minister tells us that he has to do everything and that he has the duty to do everything, I have to answer him that you have repeatedly failed, because he has not done everything he could have done. I'm sorry, but you didn't. The operators, by this weekend, were in less number, as well as the air media, than those who were positioned in May. So he didn't do everything he could. I'm sorry, but you didn't, as you didn't when you didn't resign your Minister in time and time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u105	Two days ago, you said it would be childish to resign the Minister. After all, we knew that the Minister wanted to leave, and well, right then, because she had perceived that she would not have the right conditions to continue. You had no sense of state. Mr. Prime Minister, I tell you something else in your eyes: you had an opportunity, following what happened in Pedrogon, to show that you were able to meet the responsibilities that are required of a Prime Minister. You showed that you weren't up to it, that you weren't able, that you didn't anticipate it, and you let the tragedy happen again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u106	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u107	Mr Prime Minister, that is why we cannot trust you again, that is why the Portuguese have no confidence in you and that is why we present, and here we will be to discuss it, a motion of censure to your Government, of which it is first and last responsible. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u109	Mr President, Mrs Assunción Cristas, we certainly have different views than the exercise of the functions of prime minister and, one day, if it is, we will see what will be the way it works. from my point of view, a prime minister has a duty to be supportive of the other members of the government and does not easily solve a political problem by blaming a member of the government in the face of the first disaster he has to face. That, yes, is that it is a mistake and that, yes, would have been to hide behind the Minister in order to alleviate a political problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have a lot of esteem, a lot of consideration and friendship by Prof. Constance Urbano de Sousa. If I insist that he remain in office, it was because I understood that it was essential that we do what was necessary to do: firstly, not to disturb the summer; secondly, to clear up the responsibilities that mattered; thirdly, to prepare the reform, which was very clear that it would be necessary to do, throughout the prevention system and throughout the combat system. I regret that the event at the last weekend has led Prof. Urban Constance de Sousa to understand, under conditions I respect, that it could not wait for the next Saturday, the day on which there will be the Council of Ministers, even though it has already left ready what we will discuss. That's my understanding. You think I'm wrong? It's your right. That is how I understand and that is what I want all my ministers to know, that is, that when they are in trouble I don't wash my hands, I face it, I take responsibility and I support my government members. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, I leave you a final note: on 30 September 2008, the country's severe drought situation was 0 % ; in 2010, it was 8 % ; in 2011, it was 10 %; in 2012, it was 15 %; in 2013, it was 0 %; in 2014, it was 0 %; in 2015, it was 31 %; in 2016, it was 0 %; and in 2017, unfortunately, it was 87 %, 6 %. If you think the weather was the same, it wasn't! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u110	The PCP Parliamentary Group is followed. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u111	Mr President, Prime Minister, this debate takes place in a particularly serious framework of national life. at this moment, we want to associate ourselves with the mourning that goes through the country, we want to transmit to the victims and their families our most lively solidarity and publicly acknowledge the tireless work of firemen and civil protection forces, security and relief forces, which have minimized the damage and damage. We are paying the heavy bill for decades of right-wing policy in the rural world, in agriculture, in the forest, in the abandonment of the interior. The economic and human desertification of vast territories due to the liquidation of thousands of agroforestry farms, the lack of economic profitability and the unbridled expansion of the eucalyptus, the forest disorder and the lack of the minimum compliance of the National Forest Strategy and the National Forest Defense System against Fires are not the result of chance. On the closure and degradation of public services — including the Ministry of Agriculture — to the forest, the monopolies of wood and cork, the fiscal restriction policies subject to the CFPs (Stabilisation and Growth Programmes) and the European Union — tell us that this has happened, but the problem is not. It continues to be present in our collective life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u113	Yes, Prime Minister, it must be recognized that this is the result of years of disastrous right-wing policy, successive governments, without exception, policies that cannot continue to be maintained and that it is urgent to reverse, including those of the last PSD/CDS government — the same parties that now present themselves as if they had nothing to do with the situation that is created in the country. They speak of the failure of the State to hide the failure of specific government policies. The Portuguese people still remember the EUR 150 million removed from the Portuguese forest by then Minister for Assumption Cristas and the law of the eucalyptus that had to be changed and it is remembered that the PSD and CDS government have even been exempt from the moderate rates of firefighters, eliminating them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u114	Exactly! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u115	And only now were answers, say. Having said this, and because there are many people who needed to apologize and who get out and who hide behind the state, we need determination and clearance of what went wrong also now. And today it's clear that there was a lot that went wrong. following the fire of Pedrogão Grande, we stated that it was necessary to take exceptional measures to ensure the response to a summer that would be very harsh. What we proposed, in the victim support law, was that the government should strengthen the effectiveness and means associated with the fire fighting device, in particular by extending its period of operation, was decisive and immediate measures we were talking about. When we stated that the Government would have to take away all the consequences of these events, we knew that everything was not resolved by the resignation of the Minister of Internal Administration. What is asked is the determination, from now on, in support of the victims. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, that the victim support law, which provides for housing, health, employment support and the replacement of productive potential, should not be promulgated if it is intended to ensure that victims are made out of their own. In addition, it is our understanding that the Portuguese people want clear answers, namely to know what the measures are, how much will be spent on each of them and which ones will be implemented. in this framework, the CFP believes it is necessary for the Government to give a sign of this determination by 2018, in particular by drawing up a specific budget for the defence of forests and a strongly strengthened budget, Mr Prime Minister, until I return to the issue which I put to it in July, in order to know whether it is willing to spend on forest and family agriculture as much as the State spent on saving BANIF ; clarity on the commitment to establish 100 forest-steam teams and on the reconstitution of the forest body of forest guards following the proposals of the CFP ; clarity on the funds to be applied on the network of fuel management bands in the forest, which so much lack has done in the fires of the last few days, and on the strengthening of the means of fighting the fires that the reality of the forest requires; clarity in the strengthening of support for voluntary fires ; clarity on the strengthening of the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular of the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests, whose response difficulties are evident. Mr Prime Minister, are you still at the stage of the debate of the State budget to assume this clarity and these commitments, even considering or reconsidering the goals of the defined and outdated deficit of the country's needs and reality? It is that, from our point of view, people have to be before they fail. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u116	If so, we will be paying the best tribute to those who have lost their lives, their possessions, their housing, their business and their production. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u117	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, thank you very much for the exemplary fulfilment of time. To answer that, I give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u118	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, thank you very much. I believe that they are the result of the report which was drawn up here in the House with clear responsibilities due to the failure of the State. I believe that the law passed in the Assembly of the Republic responds, on the one hand, to a set of supports, such as housing reconstruction, the replacement of productive potential, the revitalization of the territory. Many of them, fortunately, are already in the process and must continue. But there is another dimension, which has to do with the creation of an extrajudicial mechanism for the repair of all property and non-patrimonial damage. We adhere to this extrajudicial mechanism, which is very comprehensive about its recipients. For this reason, at the meeting that I held today with the Association of the Family of the Victims of the Pedrogon Fires, I proposed a complementary mechanism that, with regard to fatal victims, would allow for more rapid and differentiated treatment. The Association was going to study with its own jurists the solutions to work, being marked technical meetings by tomorrow, and as soon as we conclude this discussion we will implement this mechanism. The State must honour those commitments. Since 2007 we have, fortunately, a law of non-contractual civil responsibility of the State, which, despite having been vetoed, has been confirmed by the majority existing at the time in this Assembly of the Republic, allowing it to enter into force. This law allows to cover this kind of damage, and they must be responsible for being satisfied by the State. There is a second area of issues which Mr focused on the State budget. As you know, between the presentation of the Report on 12 and the State Budget, which was also presented on 13 and two days in advance of the constitutional deadline, there were obviously no conditions to be able to anticipate proposals from which we had no knowledge. I believe that in this debate of the State budget we will have to implement or create a flexibility framework that will enable us to carry out what is possible and necessary during 2018. There are things that are already planned. The honourable Member spoke of the forest slags and, in line with the proposal which was adopted here in June, I believe, to speed up the creation of forest slag teams, we expect a significant increase in the funds for the creation of these teams in a total of EUR 20 million. Mr. Member, only in all the measures of the prevention pillar, we have entered in the State budget EUR 131 million for investment during 2018. On the basis of the proposals which are adopted next Saturday, we will have to work in such a way as to improve and find the necessary financial means to respond to what is necessary and, as far as it is not yet possible to quantify at the state budget stage, we will create a flexibility mechanism that will enable the necessary funds to be released throughout the year. I believe that I do not make any misgivings if I say in public what Mr. Minister of Finance said recently at a meeting: that it will certainly not be our commitment to budgetary consolidation that will frustrate what is absolutely priority, which is the strengthening of structural, conjuncural and operational prevention in our forest. This is what I can assure you here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u119	You now have the floor on behalf of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u120	Mr President, I would like to begin by taking this last part of the Prime Minister's reply to the CFP, because I think it is important to make this clear. For the Greens, what it is essential to do right now is to do what has not been done so far: to take as a national priority an intervention on the forest and also on the means and model of protection for people and goods. This is actually the priority! I do not know whether other suggestions which have been put forward here, such as the creation of megastructures, are indeed very effective. We've already had megaministries that have not been effective! I just think that one thing is actually missing: to take this matter as a priority. And, in the face of the scourge, the tragedy that took place this summer, we are not in a position to stop taking this matter as a priority. Mr President of the Republic has also rightly appealed to that. Only that the President of the Republic has given a sentence in his speech that the Greens have left some lack of comfort. Mr President of the Republic said: 'If there are budgetary margins, give priority to the forest'. If there are budget margins! What if there isn't? You can't be, Prime Minister! There's a priority here! If the issue of the forest and the protection of people and goods had been taken as a priority, as was the deficit or saving the bank, we had not fallen in this situation! I would therefore like to have here the assurance by the Prime Minister that the deficit will not be a brake to be taken as a priority necessary measures for the forest and for the protection of people and goods. In fact, this guarantee must be taken, because we are here today to see the results of policies of years and years of fragility of the forest, of depopulation of the rural world, of closure of public services, of abandonment of agriculture, of fragility of surveillance in the rural world, of degradation of the capacity to respond to public services! It is clear that this must bring results later! And, Mr. Prime Minister, only the previous government, the PSD/CDS government, between 2011 and 2015 cut a quarter in the forest structure at the ICNF! This is to cry out to the heavens! In fact, we warned at the time about this, but they cut! And more: they have made a law, as already here today and so many times has been remembered, the law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, which has contributed precisely to the weakening of our forest. Now, it is one of these parties, the CDS, which was part of that government, that will present a motion of censure! I assume it is also a motion of censure for its own policy, because its policy has consequences today! [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u121	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u122	Finally, Mr President, saying that I cannot but point out that, for the Greens, it was absolutely confusing to see the PSD in this debate and in these circumstances to make closed competition to the CDS, asking the Government to present a motion of confidence. I want to say that the Greens are totally distancing themselves from these exercises of party strategy. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u123	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u124	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, in fact this debate was two debates: a debate in which the Greens, the CFP, the BE, the PS, and, I presume, the PAN, focused on solving the problems of the people who are suffering, the structural problems of prevention, the structural problems of fighting, the structural problems of the forest ; then there was another debate, the debate of the political guerrillas, which effectively did not have to do with the real problems of the country. There are two debates, but fortunately we are here to have this debate, which is what really matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the priority to the forest, Mrs Deputies, I can tell you that it is because we give priority to the forest that we started the debate on forest reform last October. In fact, we had a public debate, the reform was in public discussion, we introduced it to the Assembly of the Republic in April and was fortunately approved in July. But the truth is that this reform is attacking problems that have not been for decades, they have for centuries! For example, the absence of registration in much of the territory north of the Tagus is a problem that has centuries and which we are now facing. To have a sustainable forest, with a diversity of species, without continuous stains of species such as eucalyptus or pineapple; to enhance the vegetation cover, which is a fuel of great damage; finally to create conditions for having areas with an economic dimension of appreciation of the forest that allow to fix the population, produce wealth and generate the incomes necessary for cleaning the forest and its sustainable management; to combine the species of rapid growth and also the leafy, which, being slow growth, are essential to ensure the structural resilience of the forest; all these are measures that are adopted and now we have to implement them. We now know more: there is no alternative between treating the forest or dealing with prevention or combat mechanisms; unfortunately, we have to deal with everyone! And here too there is a curious contrast between what we have heard, systematically, the experts say, i.e., that it is time to focus on prevention, to mobilize the means for prevention, not to feed the vicious cycle of fire, and what we hear when we arrive at the parliamentary debate, that it is always asking for more and more means to fight, be human means, be material means, be air means. Now, once and for all, we have to focus on a strategy, because obviously...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u125	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u126	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Of course, you — and I have said very well — make a budget of priorities: priorities for deficit, but also priorities for expenditure, priorities for revenue, and it is in the exercise of these priorities that a good budget is made. This is what we need to work on, so that, starting from a good budget proposal, we would leave here at the end of November with a better budget for 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u127	To conclude this debate, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u128	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have been in the Viseu district for the last three days, where I could see the banalization of the violation of the law accepted by all. Security tracks don't exist. It is common to see pine trees and eucalyptus trees lined up to factory walls and see kill entering the kitchens inside. We realize that municipalities do not have the human resources and equipment to clean up all the land of non-fulfilling owners, but the minimum must be ensured so that fire does not cross towns and industrial areas, creating safety perimeters. In addition, I have found that the lack of training and information of populations to react to disaster scenarios is unequivocal. There are deaths of people and animals that could have been avoided if the populations were informed and trained about how they self-protect themselves until they reach external aid, and this work is not being done by the authorities. Mr. Prime Minister, in addition to changes in government officials that may be made, Portuguese people want to know what the government will do to change the way it is made in Portugal, in particular to correct the endemic promiscuity in the Public Administration, to end the obvious protection of the interests installed in the management of the forest and the means of combating fires and to adopt an agricultural policy that defends people and ecosystems. Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask: how long will people be waiting to resume their lives? There are many suspended lives, there are people who have lost their home, their place of work and their jobs, their floor, deep down. What actions is the government taking to ensure that these people can return to their normal lives with speed and dignity?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u129	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u130	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I do not know whether it is politically correct to say this, but today we are also paying the cost of, for a decade, the country has managed to significantly reduce its burned areas, which had an annual average of 200 000 ha, to an average of 70,000 ha. This has reduced political pressure, media pressure, the attention of the country as a whole to the structural problems of the forest. Today, many of the practices that you say are missing have already existed, but they have fallen into forgetfulness. It was the brutality of this summer, in all its dimension, that, I am sure, woke us all up for the necessity of never forgetting what the last decade has made us forget. Protection strips are essential to be made, either on the roads or in the electrical infrastructures, either around the population clusters, either around the houses, but it is important not to forget that when the tracking machines or the sawmills arrive in the forest to open and rest the safety strips that are necessary, we will often hear owners say that they cannot move in what is from them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u132	Now, it is to solve this that we have to have forest management structures that give scale that allow everyone to pay fairly, those who have fast growth species on their property, which yield in 10 years, those who have slow growth species, which will only yield their grandchildren, and those who have properties where nothing can be planted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u133	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u134	The only way to have a fair balance between all of us is to be able to manage large areas, where those who rent pay justly to all of us. The criterion which today stands, peacefully accepted by all in the urban world, that there is a clear distinction between the right to property and the right to build, must also reach the rural world, in the clear distinction between the right to property and the right to plant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u135	Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u136	I will now finish, Mr President. Yes, there are places where nothing can be planted, there are places where it is not possible to plant what we want, but only what local forest planning plans allow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u137	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. We move on to the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, and the debate on the speech of the President of the European Commission on the state of the Union, held in the European Parliament on 13 September 2017, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( c ). that of that law. You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Council, which will take place tomorrow and then, will focus on migration issues, Digital Europe, security and defence, taking advantage of dinner time to discuss external relations. Portugal generally supports the draft conclusions which seem to us to be balanced. With regard to migration, it reflects the need to continue the implementation of the measures already taken to deal with the crisis within the framework of the European Agenda for Migration. We stress that the Central Mediterranean route today assumes a nuclear position in our efforts and we want here to reaffirm the clear need for solidarity with Italy. in the path of the draft conclusions, we consider that we should not lose sight of the other routes of the Mediterranean. The surveillance of all routes must be maintained and strengthened, we cannot continue with this path in which, blocked the route of the Balkans, if the route of the Central Mediterranean is opened and once it is blocked, it is close to the Atlantic. Combating the root causes of immigration is the key to responsible management of our migration flows. For this, cooperation with third countries and in particular with Africa is essential. The importance we attach to an agreement with the adoption of the reform of the Common European Asylum System (SECA), in respect of the principles of solidarity and shared responsibility, is a second line of our position. Portugal remains strongly committed to meeting its relocation commitments. Fundamental to modernising the European economy is the theme of Digital Europe. Portugal concerns the importance attached to this issue in the European Council and supports its priorities — the promotion of digital skills, the deepening of electronic administration, the increase of cybersecurity, the investment in 5G electronic communications network infrastructures — and the framework of rules that, by guiding the balanced functioning of the market, do not affect innovation and growth. Enlargement and deepening of the Digital Single Market on a solid and equitable basis are fundamental conditions for attracting investment in innovation, accelerating economic growth and promoting a more transformed and participatory society. The digital transformation, where Portugal takes important projects, such as INCoDe for digital skills, the Industry 4.0 Programme or the deepening of electronic administration in the Simplex framework is, for us, a priority for our development, as well as the priority we attach to the development of the energy market. with regard to cybersecurity, in particular, we support the 2013 review of the European Union strategy, in order to ensure a cross-cutting approach, together with the autonomy of the European Union's action. As far as the taxation of the digital economy is concerned, Portugal agrees that it is necessary to amend the rules of taxation and is in favour of a common approach at European Union level to allow in the short term the taxation of income from the digital economy and that it may subsequently, in the long term, have a comprehensive treatment within the framework of the work carried out by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). Especially relevant is taxation for small businesses and startups that must be clearly supported in order to allow for a better stimulus to their development. With regard to security and defence, it is essential to ensure the deepening of European cooperation in the area of security and defence and that this is another factor of Union cohesion and to strengthen its joint and structured response capacity to the multiple external challenges facing the Union. Portugal has participated in discussions on strengthening the security and defence aspect of the Union by sharing this objective with the other States, which must be a catalyst for solidarity and convergence between Member States, in particular by providing opportunities for the development of a multi-purpose industry in which Portugal also wants to be an active part. This structured and permanent cooperation, which we are examining, must be a challenge for the deepening of the European project, but must, as we have always said, be based on solid foundations and solid foundations only complementing and consolidating economic and monetary union ( EMU ), the greatest challenge that has ever been met by the European Union and the conclusion of which is necessary to ensure. We also want to accompany discussions on the European Defence Fund, the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of Defence, which will constitute financial instruments to support the development of capacities and the component of innovation and competitiveness from the defence industries. We are giving greater attention to the potential of this financial instrument as an opportunity for the national defence industry, for its multiplier effect, in a set of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the development of innovation and, in particular, in order to be able to develop the multiple-use industries where we believe we can and should make a positive contribution in areas where we have clear specialization, from metalmechanics to textiles or footwear. I'm sorry, ladies. Members, this is what we will defend at the European Council. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u139	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Miguel Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u140	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members: I want to start by confessing that it is not easy for me or my colleagues to talk about, to discuss European politics when we are haunted by the tragedy that has struck the country. There is, however, a matter on which we must speak and must be even today, Prime Minister, not only because it involves aspects of the hard core of national sovereignty but also because the internal political process, within here, in the relationship between the government and Parliament, around this issue is not going well, and I am being euphemistic. I refer, of course, to the so-called « defence union project », i.e. that area of integration of the European Union involving the areas of security and defence. One year ago, we all know that the defence would be precisely that area which, in Europe after Brexit, would suffer the greatest momentum of integration. A year ago we know that permanent structured cooperation would be created in the short term. at the last European Council, where you have been present, it was decided that Member States would have to take work at home, to be completed within three months, with regard to proposals for an industrial defence development programme, proposals for the military equipment acquisition programme and its military capabilities, proposals for financing mechanisms. In September, in the Council of Defence Ministers, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini announced at the end of the meeting that there was an extended consensus on the broad lines of permanent structured cooperation, that the Ministers gave substantial support to form detailed lists of binding joint commitments. He also said that, by the end of September, the Ministers would consolidate that same list of commitments, which already had 30 project proposals to be developed — such a mechanism for permanent structured cooperation. And he said that there were already many Member States who had expressed the desire to join such permanent structured cooperation. This means that during these three months, in the last six months of this last year, there has been the work of the governments — we hope that there has also been the Portuguese Government — there have been negotiations, discussions, lists have been drawn up, proposals have been prepared. But what does this Parliament know in particular about the position taken by the Portuguese Government in these matters? You don't know anything! And it was not by the PSD that the government did not ask for, successively. For six months now we have been asking specific questions on these issues, which cannot be addressed anymore, as the Prime Minister has just said, in general, are very important for the functioning of the Portuguese State and for the future of the European Union. The only thing we know about the position of the Portuguese Government is that there are ministers who boast that no one knows the position of the Portuguese Government on these matters and want to make this happen as if it were a strategy. It gives you an idea until the Ministers themselves do not know what the Government's opinion on these issues is. They always answered that it was premature, that they were looking at, that they did not yet know, that they could not form an opinion, that it was necessary to « hide the letters». There have never been any concrete answers and therefore Mr Prime Minister today, four weeks from the meeting of the defence ministers, where there has to be a position in Portugal, in order to know whether or not to adhere to permanent structured cooperation, Mr Prime Minister has the political obligation and, I remember, legally to answer concrete questions I will ask. First: will the government or will it not adhere to permanent structured cooperation? I repeat, we're four weeks from that decision. If you don't go, why? If you go, under what conditions do you agree to participate? Does the Government support the establishment of a defence fund in the dual dimension of the acquisition of military equipment and the financing of the mobilization of military capabilities? What is the mission of the European Defence Agency ( EDA ) that the Government believes is more appropriate? Do you think it makes sense to have the European Defence Agency and the European Defence Fund together? What list of binding criteria and commitments is being prepared by the Government, with which it committed itself at the European Council in June at the meeting of defence ministers in Taline in September, and how does the agenda of the European Council this week show? What are the areas of cooperation for projects that the government has chosen or plans to choose? What link has there been with the leaders of the Portuguese Armed Forces in drawing up these lists of areas of cooperation? What are the projects that the Government has proposed or will propose under the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence? What are the conditions for financing permanent structured cooperation that the Government considers preferable? We know that France has one opinion, Germany has another. What do you think of the Portuguese Government? by the way, you don't have any, nor do you want European partners and Parliament to know you don't. What are the evaluation mechanisms, and this is a very important point, which the Government considers more appropriate in this area? Does it agree with the existence of the so-called ‘CARD’ (coordinatedannual review on defence), an annual mechanism for reviewing national defence plans and the priorities set in those plans, in accordance with which this ‘CARD’ is being discussed? for information that is public, such CARD will now start in an experimental but voluntary version. The Government has a legal and political obligation to tell Parliament whether it will cooperate with this review mechanism, or not, and it must respond today. They are concrete questions that require concrete answers of the greatest importance. Honestly, I do not understand the silence of the Government in this matter. It will be because the Prime Minister and the gentlemen. Ministers feel inhibited from discussing this issue, because it is inconvenient to discuss them with management partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u141	Do you have respect, or do you have no intelligence for that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u142	... since the Left Block and the PCP have so far demonstrated a firm opposition to all these types of projects? Oh, my God! Is that it? Oh, my God! But if that is the case, Mr. Prime Minister, I also tell you that the country does not have to move the conveniences of management... [[PCP protests.]] ...or the plans you make for the future of management. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u143	Is this silence due to the total lack of European policy on the part of a government and a Prime Minister who so much appreciated the need for a different, original European policy, and so on? Oh, my God! So far, we don't know anything! The Government must explain to this House a matter which, I repeat, falls at the heart of the provisions of national sovereignty, and Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic is guardian of all aspects of national sovereignty. in these things, sometimes ridicule and caricature are more symptomatic than great demonstrations. And I give you an example, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u144	PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u145	In March, the Assembly of the Republic, by consensus among all parties, if I recall, rejected the statements of the President of the Eurogroup ; I also believe that of all parties, it called for the resignation of the President of the Eurogroup. Mr Prime Minister made totally disproportionate statements, say in passing, saying that the credibility of Europe would never recover as long as the President of the Eurogroup held positions in the European institutions. His Government prepared a third-class theatre with the Under-Secretary of State and Finance, of confrontation with the President of the Eurogroup, only for the Portuguese television cameras see. Now, two weeks ago, the President of the Eurogroup said, at a press conference, that he had the support of all finance ministers, including Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u146	Want!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u147	... to stay ahead of the Eurogroup until the end of its term of office, even though I am no longer a finance minister of the Dutch Government, and he added that after completing this mandate — with the support of the Portuguese Minister of Finance, and therefore of the Prime Minister of Portugal — would play a role in the European Stability Mechanism ( MEE ). Mr. Prime Minister, what credibility is this? Oh, my God! What European policy is this? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u148	Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u149	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Today, after the sad moment that these days have brought us, it may be difficult to talk about Europe and it may be dissonant to bring here an optimistic note about Europe, because Europe has really surpassed some discredit, some noise, some mistrust on the part of citizens in recent times. We are at a good time to progress in the European context, the moment when we have overcome a very serious economic crisis at European level, when we are well past Brexit, when we have passed some elections in Europe, and they all seem to question their future. But the moment is also a requirement, and not just a political will, by European leaders, to make progress. The citizens demand that Europe progress, because Europe is threatened by various risks, there is an increase in international tension that also affects us, we have problems at our borders, in the east and in the south, we have problems in our neighbourhood, there are risks at the level of cyber attacks, which are increasingly dangerous and more sophisticated, and we have problems, which have not disappeared, from new crises to the euro and the economy. So, here is a set of problems that require both preventive and reactive responses from all of us. And European citizens will not forgive us if we waste this time to make progress, to move forward in European construction. Certainly, looking at the agenda of the European Council, and Mr Prime Minister has already identified the main issues here, we cannot expect this European Council to produce strategic results of a structural nature that adequately respond to all the problems, to all the requirements we face. We hope, however, that in this European Council there will be consolidation of some previous initiatives, at the level of everything related, for example, to migration, solidarity with the States most affected by migration and immigration crises — Mr Prime Minister has already identified the case of Italy — to reform the Common European Asylum System. I also welcome, as mentioned above, the realisation of the Digital Single Market, the review of the European Union’s cybersecurity strategy, which, despite being 2013, is already out of date with all the dangers and risks we have witnessed in recent times, and needs to be updated, because citizens demand it, citizens also feel insecure about the problems resulting from cybersecurity. And of course we must continue to stabilize our economies. We also stress here the need to continue with European trade policy. Negotiations with Mercosur are obviously strategic from the point of view of Portugal, but also from the point of view of the European Union, and should not be delayed. I am also referring, Mr Miguel Morgado, to matters relating to security and defence, which will also be on the agenda of this European Council, although we all know that it is not in this European Council that fundamental decisions will be taken, it is at the November European Council,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u150	It's four weeks from here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u151	...which will bring together foreign ministers and defence ministers. And, Mr, it is against the national interest that the Portuguese Government sets out positions in this regard, without knowing exactly what the decisions are to be made. at this moment, we all know that the other States, perhaps with the exception of one or another,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u152	Looks like it's already 20!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u153	... in particular those who have been in line with the initiative of structured cooperation — France, Germany and more — are reserving their position. Therefore, Portugal or the Portuguese Government would not at present be fulfilling the national interest if it were to reveal its position prematurely.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u154	We're four weeks away!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u155	We all realize that this position will have to be adopted at the right time, not now, and we all know and know the information that is available, which is exactly the same as the other national parliaments. Mr Prime Minister, we understand that the vital debate, the strategic debate on European issues will not be on this European Council. This strategic debate is the debate around the speech of the President of the European Commission and of course the White Paper of the European Commission, with its five scenarios, and now with the sixth scenario, as he himself has designed, which is about the future of Europe. The statement of the state of the Union, by President Juncker of 13 September, is therefore an important speech and that is what we should discuss in depth, until that speech gained strength from the fact that the French President, Macron, had also made an important speech himself in the Sorbonne, at the end of September, in which he either seconded or consolidated in essence many of the proposals that were already in the speech of President Juncker. It is true that the two speeches are not entirely coincidentally, from the outset, because President Juncker has a strategy that naturally aims at the progress of the European Union, but above all a European Union in which the Member States remain united. So what President Juncker wants is to ensure, in future, that there is a European Union with the same values, a European Union with the same currency — all Member States with the same currency — the euro, a European Union with the same common borders, defined through the Schengen area, the same social rights, the same tax rules and the same policy and the same security and defence strategy. And the President of the European Commission wants to ensure that it remains in the treaties as they are, that it is not necessary to review the treaties. However, President Macron wants a slightly different Europe. President Macron, moreover, recovers traditional French concepts, such as the concept of sovereignty, recovers Jean Bodin, which brings a concept of sovereignty, but not the concept of State sovereignty, the concept of Europe's sovereignty as a political space. This is an interesting concept, which is worth discussing, the political concept of sovereign Europe, a Europe capable of ensuring its own defence without relying on anyone, a Europe capable of ensuring resistance, economic crisis and assistance to Member States without relying on anyone, a Europe capable of dealing with crime and terrorism without relying on anyone. This is the concept that is underlying the spirit of President Macron and, for that reason, President Macron accepts a Europe at various speeds, contrary to the outcome of President Juncker's speech. I think I can say that, between these two speeches, which are not, in fact, inconclusive, provided that President Macron's speech is a speech that accepts various speeds but without conditionalisms that leave out those who want to participate in the various structures, President Juncker's speech is the one in which we can see ourselves most. And, Prime Minister, the timetable set out by the speeches I mentioned points out several central dates : that of the elections to the European Parliament in 2019, to which a new Commission will be followed, and the years to come until 2025. The next rotating Portuguese presidency will be 1. the semester of 2021, i.e....
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u157	I am concluding, Mr. President. As I was saying, the next rotating Portuguese presidency will be 1. the 2021 semester, i.e. this presidency is not far from the central point of the period that is envisaged in these two speeches. There are strong possibilities that Portugal will once again be called to play an important role with its Presidency, as it has already had in 2000, with the Lisbon Strategy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u158	Mr President, you really have to conclude, because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u159	... as it has already done in 2007 with the Treaty of Lisbon. We will certainly be at that time and will be able to contribute to Europe's progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u160	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u161	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: When we discuss today what will be discussed at the next European Council, and much has already been said about the values and the supposed values that were in the creation of the European project, many of the topics on the agenda of this European Council lead us to a debate, which should be more in-depth, on these values and how the European institutions come to practice these values relatively. And in this sense, I would start with migration. In fact, particularly in the last two years, this has been a subject that is on all the agendas of the European Council, it is undisturbed, but this has not meant until today that the solutions found have always been the best and, we have already said, have been driven by a trendier and more xenophobic political wave, and this is a matter of concern. European policies for migration continue to be, in fact, closed and distrust of the other, in view of what comes from outside, while the more humanitarian-charging policies have fallen short of expectations, and their implementation demonstrates exactly that. If we remember, the conclusions of the previous Council spoke about the need to go further in the implementation of relocation programmes, resettlement schemes, but we see that there are still operational problems in the first contact places - he spoke in Italy, but also in Greece, where the situation is still disastrous - with asylum seekers, refugees and migrants. Incredibly, after all these years, the situation continues to be bad and it is said that these solutions must be deepened; however, nothing is seen and people continue to die literally at the doors of Europe and cannot enter our territory when they come looking for help and run away from war. Incredibly, in the conclusions document, which was presented by this Council, there is something that cannot and should not be accepted by anyone: in it it is indicated, it is written, that it is necessary to reduce the attractiveness of migration considered illegal, by means of forced return. It is absolutely unacceptable for such words to be used when we talk about humanitarian situations. We cannot accept that these terms are used in this kind of debate, because we are talking about people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u163	What is the Portuguese Government's position on this? in fact, what is meant by the proposals now at the table for this Council, which comes following the previous ones, is a stronger force, either in the European Border and Coast Guard or in the Frontex, but this time it goes further with the so-called 'permanent structured cooperation' and with the application of the European Defence Fund. And, on this subject, we realize that in the forthcoming Councils, it may not be in the next but very soon, there will be decisions to be taken. We must also say that the rush to the right to decide on this matter says a lot about the type of policies behind the creation of such mechanisms. We know that investments are at stake in the area of research and defence development, focusing on what is called the dual-use defence economy. however, this seems strange to us because, in fact, the political objective behind this deepening of permanent structured cooperation and the European Defence Fund is a different objective, it is more politically questionable and we see absolutely no advantage in deepening these paths. That is why we also ask: what is the position of the Portuguese Government on this matter, when we should be focusing on investments of another order and on humanitarian and non-security solutions? It is that this path of European policies that favour militarisation and surveillance does not necessarily mean greater security, and we have seen this, unfortunately, in recent months. Therefore, in this matter, the Left Block rejects the path that is outlined here, because it does not effectively respond to the problems we have on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u165	I would like to leave three more notes. Firstly, it was also said on the agenda that one of the topics under discussion will be relations with Turkey. The truth is that the agreement with Turkey on migration remains an incredible spot for all Europeans. Ask yourself: Why now? What happened in the most critical months of human rights abuses in that country was not enough to have seriously debated at the time? Oh, my God! Is it necessary to wait more months for the situation to worsen? Oh, my God! Is it this time that European leaders will be ashamed of the agreement they have signed with this country to expel people from our territory and return them to Turkey? Is this what's gonna happen? Is this the debate on the table? The question remains. The second note is related to Brexit. After Michel Barnier announced a few weeks ago as a negotiator on the part of the European Union, what he called 'disturbing impasse', a working paper for the European Council was known to open slightly the door to further dialogue in order to quickly reach some conclusions. It should be noted that this impasse by the European Union has a great deal to do with matters related to financing and fund issues and how they will be used and divided. Whereas both sides have insisted that these positions have been tightened, what can we expect of citizens' rights, especially Portuguese citizens, who are in the United Kingdom and who continue to have a level of uncertainty that greatly affects their daily lives and therefore remain unanswered until today? When we talk about adopting additional guidelines to complete the framework of a future relationship, what does this mean in practice? What are the positions of the Portuguese Government? I leave a final note on a point which is incredibly absent from this agenda of the European Council, which has to do with Catalonia. And this absence certainly has a meaning, but we would like to ask: what do the Member States have to say about the request for mediation by the Catalan Government? No response has been heard so far. By the way, is it this European Council, or a neighbour, that will come out with a concrete answer about the use of extreme force by a State over its people? Is this a situation that is not of any importance to be on the agenda of the European Council, Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u166	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u167	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Council will meet tomorrow and the following day, in circumstances better than one year ago, but not necessarily in the best circumstances or even in good conditions. We continue, as the European Union, without yet having an effective answer to the issue of Brexit, in addition to this the recent situation in Catalonia and, in the Portuguese case, we also have to fully regret the absence of decisions on the completion of the architecture of the euro area, and this is essential, in our case, to ensure the financing of the Portuguese economy. The subjects on the agenda, particularly the most relevant ones, are migration, digital agenda and defence and security, and I will try to focus on them all. Starting with the subject of migration, I think it is important to stress that we have achieved very significant progress in this area. Today we are radically different from what we were in October 2013. In October 2013 there was a collapse of the European decision-making system due to the refugee crisis. The truth is that in October 2013 it was not possible to respond to a crisis, which was a humanitarian crisis and which, very quickly, also turned into a crisis of the decision-making process itself at European level. in this sense, what failed was solidarity, there was a lack of solidarity between all States at European level, creating a division, which we must denounce as false, between the North and the South, between the meeters and the non-compliant, between the creditors and the debtors. Today, fortunately, on the subject of refugees we have been able to move forward. For example, with cooperation between the European Union and Turkey, it was possible to reduce the crossings of migrants crossing the Aegean Sea to Greece and Italy by about 100 times. In other words, about 10 000 crossings per day are now about 100. It was possible to end practically the route of the Eastern Mediterranean and it was also possible to reduce much of the illegal flows on the route of the Central Mediterranean. But there is still much to be done and we must not fail to report that, of the nearly 160 000 migrants committed by the European Union to receive, we have not yet been able to respond to these situations. Portugal speaks to the will of those who have been a fulfilling country, exemplary even in the reception and integration of these same people. And we know that one of the challenges we face is to establish cooperation partnerships between the countries of the European Union and the countries of origin or the countries of traffic. in this sense, I would like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, what the Portuguese Government is doing, with regard to a very relevant sphere, that of Dialogue 5 + 5, which brings together five countries on the northern edge of the Mediterranean and five countries on the southern edge of the Mediterranean, and many of these countries are of transit or origin of these same migrants. This platform, on which Portugal has been participating since 1983, is essential, so we would like to know what the Portuguese Government is going to do about it. The second theme is the digital agenda. Fortunately, Europe has finally begun to agree on this issue, and in this sense we welcome all that is being done by the current presidency. But it should be remembered that, of the 15 largest technology-based companies in the world, there is not only one European company, and this is perhaps one of our greatest difficulties. One of the proposals to be discussed in the next Council is a proposal to which Portugal acceded, which was born in the Ecofin Council, which is that there should be a specific tax on large giants of the technological industry. On this subject, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question, not without telling you that the problem of Europe is not having these same giants at the moment, but certainly if there are large companies, whether in banking, whether in services or in industry, which are getting wealth in Europe, it is absolutely fair that they pay taxes in Europe. I would like to know the position of the Portuguese Government regarding the use and redistribution of these same taxes. Where are we going to allocate these taxes? For example, are content producers directly harmed by these companies? It was very important to have clarification from the Portuguese Government's point of view. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I am moving on to another issue, which is also very relevant and which is not being dealt with in the best way: that of permanent structured cooperation in the field of defence. We have asked the Government several times — indeed, until we meet with the Government to understand the position of the Portuguese Government — and at this moment, at least one month from the end of this same process, which will start next November, in which we have to take a position, we have not yet known the position of the Portuguese Government on this matter. We know that there are 21 Member States of the European Union who want to be in this line of action, we do not know whether or not Portugal is one of these Member States and what the Portuguese Government is now thinking about. Now, Prime Minister, what are the mechanisms for assessing this same cooperation and what financial package is this cooperation going to require the Portuguese State? in this sense, we also have to ask ourselves how this cooperation will actually work, because these matters are very important. Does the Government in any way admit to abdicating an intergovernmental link only made at the level of the States or admit to transferring in any way sovereignty to the Community bodies, for example, starting with the European Commission? The answer to this question is not indifferent to this framework, as it is not indifferent to whether the Government in any way admits to abdicating the rule laid down in the Treaties, which is the rule of unanimity, on matters relating to structured cooperation such as these. The answer to this question is also not indifferent to this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u168	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u169	I shall finish, Mr President, with one last question. It is very important for us to know what the Portuguese Government thinks about the compatibility of our obligations and commitments within the framework of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) with the membership of this cooperation. The Portuguese Government has also been relatively oblivious to this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u170	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u171	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: With regard to the draft conclusions of the next European Council, we would not like to discuss all aspects of it, however, to underline two findings which we make, and the first of them has to do with the circumstances of having a power directory, with Germany in mind, to seek to assert its power, to defend the same policies and guidelines it has affirmed and defended over time and to seek to deduce its differences with France, on whom it pays and who sends in the domain instrument, which is the European Union. Mr Prime Minister, on defence, we believe that the approach made in this draft conclusions not only confirms this finding as a particular concern and disagreement on the part of the CFP, considering not only the aspects relating to the framework of permanent structured cooperation, in particular the front position that Germany has had on this subject (with the objectives that are known as the options that Germany seeks to impose on these aspects ), but also, of course, with the concern, which is not of sole importance (on the contrary, in our perspective, cannot be sidelined) with what it has to do with the approach to the issues of the matter, considering its importance in the sovereignty and the defence of the sovereignty of the Portuguese State. So, of course, we wanted to leave this note of particular concern and disagreement on our part, as, moreover, we have been doing in the Defense Committee itself, where this matter has been discussed and considered, not as a matter of surprise to anyone else. But there is another aspect which, in relation to the draft conclusions, also has to do with the development of the last few weeks within the framework of the European Union and with the attempts to condition the discussion of the State budgets by the Member States, particularly on the basis of the assessment made by the European Union, and on which I wanted to put a concrete question, Mr Prime Minister. In fact, this has a direct bearing on what we have been discussing here in the 15-year debate, in particular the issues that the CFP has raised and which have to do with the matter of forest fires. In this regard, Mr Prime Minister, we have already had the opportunity to affirm and repeat the importance that we give him, not only in the common examination, that we have been making the State budget over these months, but with the perspective that we find increasingly necessary to translate it into the State budget. As you know, the CFP Members in the European Parliament have carried out a series of initiatives over the past two days to try to mobilize all the support and resources possible to deal with the tragedy of fires. We have asked the European Commission about the possibility of extending the resources achieved following the Pedrogon fire and we are addressing the President of the European Parliament to propose a visit from a delegation of this Parliament to Portugal on an urgent and extraordinary basis to assess the extent of the consequences of the fires and to assess the possibility of extraordinary support for an extraordinary situation. In the meantime, we have received a reply from the European Commission to a question previously asked about the possibility of State expenditure with the repair of the damage caused by the Pedrogão Grande fire and with investment in forest prevention and protection not to be accounted for as a result of the deficit in public accounts. The Commission's response to repairs was positive and the investment for forest prevention and protection did not close the door. So, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you two questions in particular. First, what efforts is the government taking with the European Union to mobilize all possible resources and support? Second, in response to the European Commission's response to the CFP's question, what measures does the Government intend to take to take to take advantage of the possibility of non-accounting for the deficit in repair and investment in forest protection, considering an increase in the State budget for these purposes? As I still have time, I would ask you another question, Prime Minister, which does not have much to do with the draft conclusions of the European Commission but with some more recent developments and which are beyond this issue of forest fires. According to reports made public, Commissioner Dombrovsky has announced the suspension of the third pillar of banking union. for available information, there will have been no consensus at Council level on a proposal, it itself itself a retreat in relation to another proposal, of the establishment of a common deposit guarantee system which provided for a phase-out of its implementation by 2024. In other words, as the CFP alerted in due course, the deposit guarantee system was the 'cenoura' with which the 'cacete' of the interference, centralisation and banking concentration was accompanied. on our part, this development does not surprise us and, even if the third pillar had advanced, it would not alter the nature of the banking union project. Obviously, the question I put to you is not about the relationship between the carrot and the cacete, but to know what consequences the government has taken away from this circumstance, because, for those who, like the Government, have made the third pillar a sort of consolation prize, it is of course necessary to ask whether...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u172	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, it is necessary to ask the Government whether it is now available to change the position it has taken before, in view of this development which is now known. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u174	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u175	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have listened carefully to the speech of the President of the European Commission in the European Parliament and have become even more concerned. We were concerned not only about the way Europe is following but, above all, about the purpose of this speech, about continuing this path as if it were all running to the thousand wonders for the peoples of Europe. And what stands out in this speech is a clear attempt to de-responsibility of the European Union, in the face of the profound and prolonged economic and social crisis that Europe is experiencing, but also by the emphasis on inequalities between States. In other words, there is no self-criticism or even a call for reflection that may question the current European Union guidelines. This speech then presents us with a road map for Europe, which is based on democracy and transparency, but soon thereafter, in a manner of victory, it refers to the provisional entry into force of the trade agreement with Canada. The ECTA ( Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement ) is the clearest example of the lack of transparency and the low or no democratic nature of the European Union decision-making process. There was a lack of transparency because the process was negotiated in secret, behind the Europeans, and it was not democratic because the European Commission tried to bring this agreement into force without the proper ratification of the Member States. As you failed to do so, you have already provisionally brought into force the agreement on the sidelines of the national parliaments. However, this democracy has absolutely nothing to do with, still above all, an agreement with the importance that CETA assumes, because CETA is not an agreement at all. CETA is not just a free trade agreement, it is much more than that. It is a political agreement that introduces the idea that democracy is reduced to a lateral concept that can only work if and when it does not disturb the profits of large multinationals, because if it does, democracy will not work. In fact, it is not clear how the European Union wants to be a leader, in terms of combating climate change, when CETA brings many limitations to this level, since it completely ignores the need to combat climate change. In this regard, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one first question: in the Portuguese Government's perspective, does CETA contribute to the aim of Europe, to take the lead in combating climate change, or does it, on the contrary, constitute a huge obstacle to this purpose? Then, Prime Minister, if there is concern, as the roadmap points out, about strengthening democracy in the European Union, it was also important to know whether the Government considers that the intention to end the rule of unanimity in the Council's votes contributes to having a more democratic Europe or not. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, the President of the European Commission argues that all Member States should enter the euro area. What I am asking is whether the Portuguese Government also considers that this is a matter of priority or whether there are other issues relating to the euro that can gain a more important priority than the entry of all Member States into the euro. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u176	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u177	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, telegraphically, try to answer all the questions that have raised me. Firstly, I believe that CETA, as well as the negotiation of the Mercosur agreement, is important for the European Union to contribute to better regulation of globalisation, which is in the interests of the European economy and the employment of Europeans. With regard to Brexit, which Mrs Pires has questioned, there is very little progress and, with regard to the rights of citizens, in particular, there is a need to ensure the issues relating to family reunification and the portability of social rights. With regard to migration issues, it is appropriate not to confuse the issue of refugees — yes, of a humanitarian nature — with the subject of immigration. The fight against illegal immigration is not to disregard the humanitarian effects, it is, on the contrary, to strengthen the protection of people, because trafficked people are, firstly, victims of trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration, of which it is also important to protect. Mr Pedro Mota Soares is right because the issue of migration routes is a crucial issue, and this only demonstrates how we have to solve the problem at home, hence cooperation with the sub-Saharan countries. Cooperation with countries 5 + 5 is absolutely decisive. Moreover, the meeting of Ministers 5 + 5, which will take place on 8 November in Morocco, will have on the agenda precisely the subject of migration. With regard to Turkey's issues, I would like to recall that the agreement which has been very criticised is the bilateral agreement between Greece and Turkey. The agreement which Europe has signed with Turkey was to take into its own hands refugees who are in Turkey on behalf of refugees which Greece is sending back to Turkey. Finally, I would like to say two things about the substantive issues that have been raised: firstly, I do not believe that it is a good way forward for the review of treaties. To move forward towards this type of review is to move forward towards the situation that we have no solution in good time from what we need to solve. What should we solve? Practical issues such as those which Mr. João Oliveira stressed, in particular the need to have better flexibility in the management of our Budget to respond to disasters such as fires, to have a strengthening of the European civil protection system and to be strengthened the European Solidarity Fund, which, for damages of more than 598 million euros, we have presented, has ensured support for Portugal of 15 million euros. These are the real problems, but then there are others. We must respond to new policies, such as defence and security, but this must be based on sound foundations and, for that, we must conclude economic and monetary union, starting, from the very beginning, with the end of what we started as a banking union. But we must do more, we must effectively achieve that the Eurozone Summit marked for December will result in an effective reform of what is our economic and monetary union. With regard to our ongoing structured cooperation on defence, we believe that we should follow it and that we should see it in an overall framework, not as an alternative or competitive to cohesion or competitiveness policies, but should have the ability to integrate these two valences into industrial policy, as a boost to competitiveness, and in the participation of all Member States, according to their own production and specialization,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u178	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u179	...in order to strengthen your cohesion. But it is also essential to have a global view of the concept of defence and security, in particular by incorporating energy security here, and in this framework Portugal represents, either with its Atlantic facade or with its interconnections, a greater value for strengthening Europe's energy security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u180	You really have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u181	But new advances without completing what has already been achieved in the area of economic and monetary union, I honestly do not believe it to be realistic and productive. In conclusion, Mr President, and in order for there to be no error, I would like to inform the House that Mr. Miguel Morgano yesterday had the opportunity to address all the issues he made here at the meeting which Mr. Minister of Defence had for a further hour with representatives of all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u182	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u183	And, Mr. Member, where you were with two more Members of your party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u184	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u185	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u186	Mr. Miguel Morgano, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u187	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u188	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u189	Mr President, I asked a number of specific questions and claimed Mr. Prime Minister's political and legal obligation to answer. If it takes more time, I shall give the Government the time left for the PSD, which I have not exhausted, so that the Prime Minister can answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u190	Mr. Prime Minister will do well to say whether he wants to respond to this call or whether he leaves it to the attention of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u191	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u192	Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u193	Mr President, normally when the government wants to speak, it asks for the floor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-18.u194	Mrs. Members, we have come to the end of our work with the Prime Minister's use of the floor as usual in these preparatory debates of the European Council. The next plenary meeting will take place on Thursday, 19 October, at 3 p.m., and will be on the agenda: point one, the general discussion of Bill No 97 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the sanction scheme applicable to the development of the collaborative financing activity; point 2, the general debate of the proposed law No 98 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the scheme for the allocation of securities for use in the water sector in relation to existing situations not entitled; point three, the general assessment of the proposed law No 96 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the electronic notification of lawyers and informal defenders; point four, the general discussion of draft law No 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the defence of competition and regulates the compensation actions for infringement of the provisions of competition law ( private strengthening ) ( PSD ) ; and finally, point five, the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein 635 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the order of physical therapists ( PS ), 636 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Creates the order of health technicians and approves their status ( PS ) and 642 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creation of the order of physical therapists ( CDS-PP ). I wish everyone else a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 6 minutes.]]
