i-1af8e51fbec9a694-5	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren has asked me Initially, I would like to emphasise that accessibility in healthcare is a priority for the government. Over time, the availability of healthcare has improved, but in recent years there are worrying developments linked to the accessibility measures in the healthcare guarantee. However, it is worth noting that this development started in 2014, in the last year of the previous performance-based queue billion. I would also like to refer to the letter submitted by the Government to the Riksdag two years ago in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review report Agreements between the Government and SKL in health care – voluntary participation but difficult to refuse (RiR 2014:20). In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that performance compensation, i.e. that the county councils receive compensation if they perform certain performances, means that the county councils need to take financial risks to participate. This form of compensation also risks, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, to counteract the goal of equal care throughout the country. In the letter, the Government agrees to some extent with the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism and announces its intention to be more restrictive in terms of the use of performance-based remuneration. There are still some performance compensations in this year's agreements with SKL, but as stated in the letter the tool is used more restrictively. During the autumn I have answered several parliamentary questions on accessibility and care queues. I have said the following, among other things. The issue of accessibility is closely linked to the issue of skills provision. The staffing and skills supply problems that exist in healthcare help to reduce the capacity of care and thus accessibility. Here the government has taken a number of measures.
i-Mj4b2je7siAkcikKoP9dmb	中 Funds have been added to the National Board of Health for the validation of foreign health education.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-15	A specific professional billion has been introduced that addresses precisely the challenges of skills provision. The shift from queue billion to professional billion is about focusing on the underlying causes of the care queues. The government and the SKL decided last week on a second agreement covering two years. One innovation compared to last year is that 300 million are earmarked for county councils to offer increased opportunities for nurses to undergo specialist training. The Government is also investing SEK 2 billion during its term of office to improve access to cancer care and make it more equal. During the period 2015 – 2018, the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, SKL, meet annual agreements on shorter waiting periods in cancer care. The main focus of the initiative is to introduce a model with standardised healthcare processes. Recent follow-ups from the Regional Cancer Centre in collaboration and the National Board of Health and Welfare show, among other things, that developments in this area have already been broken and that waiting times have been significantly shortened with standardised health care processes. Cecilia Widegren highlights lung cancer. A standardised course of lung cancer care has been introduced in 2016, which provides a good basis for shortening waiting times for this patient group. Monitoring of waiting times is an important part of both the Government's and the county councils' work to improve access to healthcare. This is why the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been commissioned by the Government to develop the monitoring of healthcare accessibility. Furthermore, the government will initiate a trial with so-called patient contracts in healthcare to further develop accessibility work. The Government also prepares proposals from current government investigations, including Effective Care (SOU 2016:2), which has the potential to contribute to long-term improved accessibility of healthcare. This report also analyses Swedish health care in comparison with other countries from a number of perspectives. For example, primary care accounts for a much smaller proportion of care in Sweden than it does in many other comparable countries. This can partly explain the differences between Sweden and our surrounding world. My overall assessment of all the measures I have presented here is that the government is already making strong efforts to improve accessibility for patients in various ways. The county council's obligations in terms of both care according to needs and care at the right time are already clearly laid down in legislation, as well as the possibilities for patients to receive care in other parts of the country if the county council does not fulfil its obligations. In addition to introducing exercisable rights for patients, a major step has been deemed inappropriate by several previous investigations – an assessment shared by the previous alliance government.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-24	Mr President, I would like to There are major regional differences in the growing healthcare queues. Today we have waiting times in Swedish health care which are some of Europe's longest. The Government summarises the answer to my interpellation by saying that the government, with all the measures that have been reported here, is satisfied with the strong efforts that improve accessibility. This makes me go back to what it really looks like. If you are satisfied in a situation where we have some of Europe's longest waiting times, I do not think you take your mission very seriously. Two years have passed – half the term of office – since the government took office, and now we are beginning to see the results. Care queues are increasing, and they vary greatly across the country. The latest compilation and follow-up carried out show that it is the most serious increases that we can see since the measurements started in 2011, for example in the case of planned operations. That's twice as much as it was four years ago. It is not good enough for anyone, whether you are a minister or an opposition politician in the Swedish Parliament. The large regional differences and waiting times in healthcare obviously depend on where you live and what diagnosis this is all about. Unfortunately, however, it cannot be either a place of residence or county council boundaries that will determine which care and treatment is carried out. It cannot be that it should take longer in Västernorrland than in Dalarna, i.e. depending on where you live. Of course, regional differences should be taken very seriously. The Government has a responsibility to the whole country. The Health Care Act is very clear that it is care according to needs to be carried out and not care according to the place of residence or county council border. When the left-wing government took office, it removed the queue and availability billions in the budget bill, although it had proved to be an effective tool for taking a national step towards shortening waiting times in general. It was then a question of halving waiting times, i.e. a well-functioning tool for shortening waiting times for patients. Unfortunately, the government chose not to introduce anything else, which would be even better than a halving. There is still a lack of a structured plan for how to shorten waiting times in general in the country and how to take the Health Act as a whole seriously. The Government has not presented a bill to the Riksdag regarding future health care reforms, nor is there anything on the government's bill list at the moment. The government said that the rest of us also wanted to remove the well-functioning queue billions. That is not the case. The Parliament made a decision that the queue billions should be kept and developed into a coordination and accessibility billion, where the positive characteristics of this would be taken more clearly into account. When the Government now notes that strong efforts have been made, which have not, however, led to shorter care queues, the Government will nevertheless be obliged to explain what further measures the Government intends to take to really shorten the care queues. Or is it that one settles down to say that someone else, that is, the county councils, should have this responsibility? The Government is obliged to answer to the Swedish Parliament to the Health Act we have. Then it is important not only to be satisfied and settle down with the measures that have been presented so far – which have led to longer periods of care – but to return to the Riksdag with clear information on how to increase accessibility and shorten the period of care in general in Sweden.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-35	Mr President, I would like to Growing care queues are costly both for those patients who are in the queue and waiting for the care they should receive as for the principal, i.e. county councils or regions. In my native town of Dalarna there are many who suffer. Their illness is getting worse there because they have to wait in long queues for care. Statistics suggest that a great many people have to wait for care for more than the 90 days that the care guarantee stipulates. Of Dalarna's approximately 280 000 inhabitants, 10 325 are now in line for their first assessment by a specialist. Is that reasonable? If you make comparisons with other county councils you also realize that it can look even worse. Within child and youth psychiatry, Dalarna County Council has only 27 per cent target compliance in the care of a very fragile and fragile group. It causes a lot of suffering for these children and their families. I am a lay accountant in my home country and follow through a number of review reports what is happening. Last year we had an analysis of the accumulated waiting times for the patients, and we have followed Est you through her care. We can conclude that Est er has a diffuse disease picture. Of course, she visited primary care first, because that's what you're supposed to do. There she waited 90 days to get the right care. M an Est er needed further investigation by a specialist. Another 90 days passed. The first specia list found nothing wrong with Est er but gave her a referral to specialist number two – another 90 days waiting time. This specialist did not find anything either, but Est er received a referral to specialist number three. Another 90 days passed. Now, however, Ester was lucky, for this specialist found the fault. The assessment was that she needed an operation for the condition. Now 366 days have passed, and Est er suffers. Now she's just gonna wait for her surgery.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-40	Mr President, I would like to Important points have been made that good care should be given to everyone in this country. In my post I would like to stick to the queue billions and take examples from my part of Sweden, which is Skåne. On 22 September 2016, Dagens Samhälle stated that the care queues have become longer since the queue billions disappeared. The 2009 queue billion, which was introduced by the Alliance, was for the Skåne region a good carrot and very well spent money for the Scanian citizens. The region became among the best in the country at short queues, which meant a faster recovery for the Scanian patients. We all know what that means, and we have heard it in the previous two speeches. When the red-green government abolished the queue billions, the average availability of both visits and operations was about 80 percent. Since then, access to healthcare has steadily deteriorated to first 70 per cent and in 2015 and 2016 to 65 per cent. Every third patient is waiting 90 days for surgery. In Skåne, the situation is the worst, and Skåne University Hospital is one of the Swedish university hospitals where patients currently have to wait the longest of all for surgery. The Government addresses both staff and funds. I can start by saying that this is happening despite the fact that in my part of the country 2 000 more employees were employed in Region Skåne two years ago. The tax has also been increased. The fact that the deficit is increasing and that the rate of cost increase is still high is worrying, regardless of the problem that waiting times in health care are growing longer and longer at the same time, and the rate of sick leave among staff is higher and higher. The whole healthcare sector in Skåne has thus taken a step in the wrong direction. This applies not only to the area of queue billions, but has consequences that in every way generate negative effects for the Scanian citizen. This means that it becomes less accessible even though money and staff have been added, and then something else needs to happen. If the Scanian patient were to go to other county councils, which the Government was in on, there is a bridge over to Denmark where the queue times are two to four weeks for most operations. So you can send people there, but that means that you should make up for that cost at home. It will be a cost that will be sent to Sweden and to Skåne – to the Swedish citizens. Sure, the opportunity exists to get access to other care, but it might be better – and I might think it would be good – if Sweden got a better focus on healthcare so that we can take care of our citizens at good costs.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-46	Mr President, I would like to This debate is very important, because health care is about the most basic thing in welfare. It is about quality of life, and ultimately it is a matter of life or death. It is therefore extremely important that we do everything we can in this area. When it comes to how to improve health care and tackle the problems we have today, one must first ask what is the basic problem. A fundamental problem is resources. Of course, it is a little different across the country, but I think we can generally say that more resources are needed for health care. There is a need for more employees and more care places. However, it is also a problem of competence, just as the Minister has talked about. There is a shortage of staff with the right skills; doctors we all know about, and this also applies to nurses – not least specialist nurses – and nurses. This too is partly a resource issue. We must ensure that working conditions and also wage levels are good enough to make it attractive to work in health care. The fact that you have enough co-workers and good enough wages is also about resources. The government has now chosen the way to provide more resources. In fact, more resources are being provided now than in previous governments. The cue billion it is talking about has been replaced by a professional billion. So it is not less resources, but it focuses on the basic problem that lies behind having the queues we have: to obtain the skills. We also have a resource supplement when it comes to cancer care where we can already see results. In women's health care and maternity care, we have provided resources for as many women as possible to be able to undergo safe childbirth and, of course, for the children to do well in this. It is incredibly basic for healthcare that these things work, and there the government has already taken a line that has had an effect. Of course we shall continue on this line. However, I think it is important to point out that this has already had an effect in these areas. Of course, it is desirable that everyone should receive care as quickly as possible, but it must also be care as needed. One problem with the queue billion was the equalization of someone who had broken the toe with someone whose condition was life-threatening. I think, of course, that everyone should receive care as quickly as possible, but in the case of someone whose condition is gradually worsened by the person's not being treated – so that the person even risks dying – it must be given priority in the gender. It has been very difficult for county councils with these priorities. There is a risk of losing the money needed for health care, because it is forced to give priority to these rapid cases, which may not be so crucial. One might wait a few more weeks without the condition getting worse or the patient dying of it, which is not the case in other situations. I think it is important to take this into account in the calculation of priorities in healthcare – care must be provided as necessary. I believe that there is an understanding of this. Even if you want to receive care as quickly as possible when you are ill, you understand that someone who is seriously ill – when the condition worsens and the patient even risks dying – should be given priority in gender. You can end up in that situation yourself in the future, and then you probably want to go ahead yourself. When it comes to the economy, the government does a lot, but this is ultimately a matter for the county councils – they decide the county tax. A major problem in Skåne is that we Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left, want to raise taxes – for that is needed – but that the bourgeois parties and SD unfortunately resist. There is one of the problems in this connection.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-56	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for raising the issue of accessibility, because this is an extremely urgent issue. As I said in my interpellation response, this is an issue that the government is following with great interest and great concern. We see that progress is going the wrong way. However, I would like us in this debate to discuss the problems and solutions in the future and not get caught up in a discussion on the cue billions. Cecilia Widegren has asked me why we removed the queue billions. The simple answer to the question, which I have given several times before in this House, is that we removed it because it had played its part. We saw the queues growing during the last year of the queue billions, and something new was needed – something that focused on the basic problems. What is the reason why care queues are growing in Sweden today? The causes are multiple, but they are interrelated. The most important reason is the demographic changes that are currently taking place. We simply have a population that is getting older. As the population grows older, it also gets sicker. It is easier to get several diseases at the same time, and you need the resources of care to a greater extent than you have needed in the past. When we have an ageing population, this does not just mean that we get more patients in health care. We are also getting more and more healthcare professionals – experienced employees who have worked for a long time – who are now retiring. This creates a shortage of nurses, specialist nurses, doctors, medical secretaries and a wide range of other staff groups within Swedish healthcare. This is what we – and primarily the county councils – now have to deal with. From the government's side, we have therefore chosen both to redirect the money that went to the previous queue billions and to provide additional resources to strengthen the supply of competence within Swedish healthcare. We do this to ensure that there are trained staff who can work in hospitals, in primary care or in other parts of the healthcare system. Because it is only when these staff are there that we can really get to the gaps in waiting times that we are now seeing. One example is the lack of specialist nurses. What happens when there are no specialist nurses? The necessary operations cannot be carried out, for example, because this specialist competence must be in place. The lack of specialist nurses means that you cannot carry out an operation when you would like, even though the doctors, nurses, nurses and a wide range of other professions are there. Therefore, the government has expanded the number of places in specialist nursing training. Since Friday we also have a new agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council where we will contribute SEK 300 million in order to get a study salary during the time that you train as a specialist nurse. We do this because we see that very many potential candidates to become specialist nurses have already worked as nurses for a long time. They have thus become accustomed to an income and have family and children. They simply cannot afford to go down and live on study funds. With this 300 million now, it means that you can get a salary and be able to afford to train yourself to what is one of the most important resources in health care.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-65	Mr President, I would like to The Government and his Socialist colleague are leaning back on the fact that they have done a great deal during this term of office. It is true that you have presented things – the problem is that this has led to a different development from both the one you want and the one we want. Then we must discuss all the questions asked by Parliament. It abolished the successful tools – which shortened and even halved queues – rather than rediscovering them and making them even more effective. There is no analysis of why this happened, more than that it was of a political nature. Systematics was removed – goals, means, performance and incentives to work with accessibility and care queues. This is why patients like Ester and others– there are many such examples– have to wait up to 300 days for access to treatment. One should also live in the right place in Sweden, and this cannot do for a left-wing government. Right now it is best to live in the three alliance-led county councils Halland, Jönköping and Stockholm, according to the open comparisons presented today by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare. This is not good enough. Then you have to do it again and do it right. I am happy to take the game with the Government regarding resources for municipalities and county councils in the coming years. The Moderates here in the Swedish Parliament have proposed even more welfare billions than the government over the next few years, but it chose the Social Democrats to reject. The Moderates have also presented health care reforms, to which the Social Democrats so far reject. Today, the government has no proposals for concrete measures to reverse the growing healthcare queues. We are asking for such proposals time and again. They're not on the bill list, they're still being prepared. Health care reforms are lacking, despite the consultation rounds and despite the fact that the Government Office has had time to prepare these reforms. The bill list is empty on health care reforms. This is not good enough in a situation where we are somewhere near Europe's longest waiting times. I therefore put the question to the Government, forward-looking, in my first speech. What new concrete measures, for example in view of the open comparisons that we are seeing today, is the government now willing to take? There are a number of government investigations, which are in the drawer of the ministers at the Ministry of Social Affairs, which can well be turned into concrete health care reforms. They're in demand. Some of the referrals are also cheeringly positive, and yet they remain in the drawer of the cabinet of the Government waiting. However, the Government intends to continue the discussion on what to do in some hospitals versus others – a consultation round which, on the other hand, has given enormous criticism to the Government and the Government. We remain here and note that the development is going in the wrong direction – there is the Government and I agree. We note that developments are worrying. But the question remains: What are the tools to turn this around? We have presented a number of measures to which the Government and the Government have said no. Then I think it is urgent that the Government of the Riksdag presents other reforms, which are even better than the reforms presented by the Alliance Government. These reforms worked – this cannot be contradicted; it is clear that this is the case. We want to improve accessibility. We are happy to open up a dialogue with the government on concrete tools to do things even better for patients. But don't just keep saying that nothing is going to happen, and don't let government investigations stay in the office drawer of the Ministry of Social Affairs!
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-78	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we have a fundamental problem in healthcare today. I have been following the healthcare system for quite a number of years and can see what has happened. During the alliance years, a lot happened, at least in my native town where we had access to the queue billions. Then it was removed, and what happened? As I said, I'm a layman's accountant at home in the county council, and we've been looking at this with care queues. Unfortunately, the county council in Dalarna has been governed by social democratic majorities for centuries, and we do not have the care that we want. In the audit report, professional auditors have looked at the availability of healthcare and note that there must be more offensive targets, a systematic approach in healthcare and an organisation that benefits patients. Systems must be developed so as not to end up in the situation that Ester ended up in when she had to wait for an assessment of her condition. Then you have to ask yourself: Are the laws really written? Are they following up offensive policies in the way we want them to? Can we get laws that specifically take advantage of patients' rights and that can eliminate all the extra work that arises when care queues are to be administered?
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-83	Mr President, I would like to After all, we are a number of people who are taking part in the debate. I listened to Hillevi Larsson, Social Democrat from Malmö, who mentioned that the queue billions of people with simpler ailments who broken little toes, although it is problematic for the individual, go ahead with seriously ill people because it was difficult to prioritize. I am surprised by the post and think it is serious, because in Sweden we have a health and hospital law that says that you should always prioritise the patients who need care first. It is not something that we have abandoned in this country, but I think and believe I know that it is done that way. I would therefore like to know whether this is a statement that Hillevi Larsson wants to stand by. I will back the band and look back in time, because Hillevi Larsson raised the problem with midwives in Skåne a few years ago. In this case, there was a discussion in the media that you could not feed in Skåne and had to go to Denmark. In reality, it was a Danish woman who made it to Malmö where she said: I am from Denmark. May I go over to Copenhagen to give birth, and do I have time? She got a yes on the question twice, and she left. Then this was painted up to a big discussion that was not at all about what it was like from the beginning. It's serious. I do not think that we should frighten people, with what it means, because we want a debate in this House, but it should be constructive discussions about what we see, not scare debates.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-85	Mr President, I would like to I made a study visit to Skåne University Hospital in Malmö before the election. There I met specialists in eye diseases who told me that when it came to eye diseases, the queue billions had the consequence that simple eye conditions were prioritised. Of course, it is serious for the individual, but the condition was not aggravated by waiting. On the other hand, there were other ailments where the condition got worse and patients could even get down, but were more complicated to fix. The eye specialists told us that unfortunately this is how it happened, especially when it came to private eye care, because you got more money if you did many procedures. They said plainly that they could see that the needs did not control, but it became an interest to do as many interventions as possible. The private could even try to avoid the complicated eye conditions, as they meant more jobs and less dividends. I think it is a structural error when it is done in this way. Then, of course, I mean that everyone who has a need for care should have it met. But it should not even be the case that the simpler cases are given priority over the more complex ones that are life-threatening or, at least, seriously endanger health. As far as maternity care is concerned, I think we can still agree that there have been exceptional circumstances at times. In fact, there have been references to Copenhagen, which of course happened in exceptional cases, but above all to other clinics around Skåne. It involves incredible stress and anxiety for mothers, children and entire families. I also think that care is ultimately a resource issue. If it costs, you have to charge taxes.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-90	Mr President, I would like to I too think it is good that we are discussing these issues in the Swedish Parliament. It is extremely important that we see what is happening, including that the government invests considerably more money on welfare, that health care is given more quality for the money and that we move away from health billions, which ultimately increased the queues, to a professional billion instead. We should be grateful for this, but certainly not satisfied, because there is a great deal more to be done. In addition, there are regional differences, as we have heard. Me and Cecilia Widegren live in Västra Götaland County. That's where the Moderates rule. They raised the tax to provide better care, it was claimed. All hospitals in the region are in serious deficit and have a very strained economy. The health guarantee is not being met and has fallen drastically. Then, as the Moderates do in this House, you can blame everything on the government and say that you have no responsibility of your own. So it can be said that even the moderate-governed region does, because they do not seem to want to take their responsibilities as they have promised the voters. Listen and be amazed, because while these hospitals are running with huge deficits – many of them have shortcomings that would need to be addressed – the region has 1.6 billion surpluses that have been accumulated in regional central government and that do not benefit from healthcare. I think it is a disaster that the moderate-led government in Västra Götaland behaves in such a completely irresponsible way towards people in need of care. They are in need of emergency and other medical care. There are many things you could use this money for. And what do the Moderates do? Yeah, you put the money on the line. It's not responsible! I am pleased that we have a responsible government that has further increased the resources to improve skills, in particular professional billions, and increased the number of training places in order to reduce queues in this way, which is the intention. Last week we also received the good news from the government about the agreement with SKL, which allows specialist nurses to be trained. This will, if anything, be able to shorten the queues even in Västra Götaland, even if the Moderates would be against it.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your continued contributions to the debate. I am pleased that we have been able to start focusing on the basic problems behind the growing healthcare queues, namely the provision of skills in health care. As I said in my previous interventions, the government has taken a wide range of initiatives, and will continue to do so, to improve the supply of skills and support the county councils in various ways. At the end of her speech, Monica Green discussed the Government's agreement with SKL of SEK 300 million to go to study salary for those who choose to train as a specialist nurse. This will mean that we will have more specialist nurses and that we can thereby reduce the pressure both in operating rooms and in other parts of the healthcare system. Further efforts that the government has made and which means a lot is that we concentrate large resources to try to get the care chain together around individual patients. One example that was taken up from Dalarna County Council was Ester. Ester is certainly a typical example of a patient who is becoming increasingly common in healthcare today: a person, often elderly, who has different ailments and certainly one or more chronic diseases at the bottom and who needs both health care and municipal care. Today we see that there is a lack of coordination between what the municipalities do and what the county councils do. It is very common for people, often older people, to end up between the chairs. You get first-class medical treatment, but then communication is not handled correctly and you do not get the right input from the municipality when you are discharged. This is a major problem today, because we have many patients in the Swedish hospitals who are medically prepared, that is to say that the health care system is done with them and can do no more for them. These patients are given the chance to come to their municipality of residence, but due to lack of communication the municipality cannot receive them. You may not have a home that is prepared to receive the patient, or you may not have prepared the right efforts to provide care. The result is that the person, who is often elderly, remains in a hospital and takes up a place of care, which means that it cannot be used for the patients who would need it. The government came with a bill before Christmas that puts much greater pressure on municipalities and county councils to manage communication among themselves and ensure that all preparations are in place when the patient is medically treated and will come home. In this way we can use the places we have much more efficiently. We can ensure that care places are actually occupied by patients in need of medical care in a hospital. This is good not only for health care but for patients. Elderly patients who have completed treatment should not remain in hospital. They will receive good care and care in their municipality of residence. It is also good in financial terms because a place of care in a hospital often costs more than a place of care in, for example, a municipality. In this way, we can save both on health care resources and on municipalities' resources. Above all, we can ensure that care and care are as good as possible for the individual patient, who is often older and sometimes called Ester.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-107	Mr President, I would like to The patients have a concern about the lack of availability, and I share it. I also share the concern that the government will become too passive and sit back and note that the measures that they have presented so far are the ones that they have in the package. Parliament and we expect the Government to come back and have taken up the state investigations that are now in the Ministry and are waiting to become concrete health care reforms and that this will happen as quickly as possible. It may even be that you can look at the positive elements that existed in the queue billions and develop them further in terms of incentives, structure and systematics, in order to reduce care queues. Finally, the Government chooses to address patient focus as a clear example. We share that view. There is more to do when it comes to strengthening patient focus. Some are the patient law that is already in place but is not fully used. I chose to ask a question in the interpellation about how to further strengthen the patient's rights, as this would minimise the role of the place of residence and strengthen the patient, regardless of where the patient lives in Sweden, and thus achieve better quality of care and availability for the patient. I do not think that the Government can afford to refrain from looking also at this type of care reform in order to strengthen the patient's right in healthcare even more linked to the Health Act but also, of course, to achieve a better effect in terms of continuity and accessibility. It would be interesting to hear the views of the Government on this. In conclusion, I would like to say to Monica Green that it is better to get to grips with an interpellation debate. As regards accessibility, which the National Board of Health and Welfare has presented today, Västra Götaland is located in the upper half. It's not approved, but in the upper half. As regards specialist nurses and investments in them, Västra Götaland has worked with this as an employer in recent years and spent resources on it.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-114	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly how it is. You're supposed to be read. I have read about how the moderate-controlled Västra Götaland region does not use its money effectively. I have read about the SEK 1.6 billion that you put in a central cash register and save on high instead of making sure that the hospitals, who are in dire need of more resources, get the money they need. I find it devastating that taxpayers' money is used in this way and that it is not used where it is needed. I have also studied what the government has done, namely increased investment in specialist nurses. That's excellent. When the Västra Götaland region was ruled by the Social Democrats during the previous term of office, training of specialist nurses was started – that is quite right. But the new initiative means that there will be even more, because we need more. It is a lack of skills and a shortage of staff that leads to queues. As more people are trained and become specialists, queues can be shortened. This is what we wanted. I think this is even what the interpellation was about. Thanks to the fact that we had a wise region when the Social Democrats ruled, they invested in specialist nursing training. And thanks to the fact that we now have a government that accepts this responsibility, it is invested in specialist nurses. This is done despite the fact that the moderate-led Västra Götaland region spends 1.6 billion on high and does not use them for health care, which is sad.
i-1af8e51fbec9a694-118	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to all those who have taken part in the debate! The debate has focused on how accessibility within Swedish healthcare has deteriorated over a long number of years, with a strong start in 2014. However, it has mainly been about the underlying reasons why accessibility is now deteriorating. In addition to an ageing population, which means that we get more and sicker patients to treat in the healthcare sector and that we have more retirements, competence provision is the big question – how to ensure that we have trained staff who can work in our hospitals and health centres and receive the patient groups that are now coming in a patient-safe way. It is also here that the government has introduced a wide range of efforts to strengthen the county councils' ability to have a good supply of skills. We have expanded and continue to extend the training courses to nurses, specialist nurses and midwives, as we see that there is a need for more educated people. We have contributed resources – no later than Friday in connection with an agreement with SKL that provides SEK 300 million that can be used for a study salary initiative for those who choose to train as a specialist nurse. We have commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare and the University Chancellor's Office to ensure that higher education institutions and health professionals can cooperate much more closely to improve the supply of skills. As of this year, we will contribute almost SEK 3 billion in permanent general government grants to strengthen health care, and before the end of the parliamentary term we will return to Parliament with both proposals and new proposals in budgets on how to strengthen accessibility in Swedish health care.
