i-SJ2gAqJ9z2ZhR4BQbhuLbY	During the plenary session on 14 September 2017, Jessica Polfjärd, the Moderates, raised a motion of censure on Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The job was assisted by at least 35 members and was later suspended the same day for the first time. The claim was postponed once more on 15 September 2017, and the claim will now be settled. The floor to give an explanation of vote has been requested by Berit Högman, Jessica Polfjärd, Mattias Karlsson, Jonas Eriksson, Anders W Jonsson, Mia Sydow Mölleby, Christer Nylander and Andreas Carlson. There is no right to reply to these speeches.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-0	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have requested the Riksdag to declare that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist does not enjoy the trust of the Riksdag. Let me begin by saying that what happened at the Transport Agency was and is an accident. Their decision to outsource the operation of IT systems was both illegal and put Sweden and Swedish citizens at risk. It is unacceptable and should not be allowed to happen. At the same time, it is important to point out that both the government and several other authorities, such as the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces, have worked hard to minimise the damage since the problems at the authorities were discovered. Peter Hultqvist was familiar with the procedures for providing information in the Government Office on issues of this kind. Therefore, based on the knowledge he had, he assumed that the Council of State Committee had been reached by the information. The procedure is a secret, but the information has been given to the Constitutional Committee. There is therefore no reason, in fact, to proceed with a motion of censure on the Minister for Defence. Mr President, I would like to In a tense environment, Sweden needs to strengthen its defence. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist recently presented an agreement between the government, the Moderates and the Center Party on additional means to strengthen military capabilities. Since before, there is an agreement on the direction of defence policy 2016 – 2020 that was concluded between the government, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats 2015. Measures have been taken to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. Among other things, military service has been reactivated, international cooperation has been deepened and decisions have been made on the resumption of total defence planning. Mr President, I would like to The Socialist parliamentary group is calling for a rejection of the motion of censure on Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. We have full confidence in both the Secretary of Defense and the entire government. The Socialist parliamentary group will therefore vote against the vote.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-8	Mr President, I would like to The moderate parliamentary group has proposed that the Riksdag declare that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist does not have the confidence of the Riksdag. The claim is presented in the light of the serious security crisis caused by criminal offences by an authority and aggravated by the lack of communication and handling by the government and individual ministers. As a result of the offences at the Swedish Transport Agency, classified information relating to national security has been handled in a way that may have made it available to foreign authorities. This has happened at a time of deterioration in the security situation, when it is of particular importance to act responsibly. Both the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service have pointed to the seriousness of the incident. The head of the Security Service has stated that information that has not been properly protected must be regarded as being in the wrong hands. The security crisis has exposed major shortcomings in the work and responsibility of the government. Two ministers and the Prime Minister's own State Secretary have already given up their duties as a result of reckless and inadequate action. The work of both the Government Office and the Prime Minister is under review, and new tasks continue to emerge that reinforce the image of an unprecedented organisational breakdown. It is a mystery to most people how so many ministers and officials at different times have been able to learn about this serious situation without anyone having at any stage seen it as their task to inform the Prime Minister. Ultimately, it is the Prime Minister who is responsible for the work of the Government and the Government Office. Many questions remain for the Prime Minister to answer, and that review continues. To the question of the motion of censure that we have put to the Minister for Defence. The Secretary of Defense has a special responsibility for matters of national security and defence. He has been aware of the importance of the information that came to his attention and of the need for action by the Armed Forces and the military intelligence services. Although the Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist had the information early, he refrained from informing the Prime Minister about the crisis and the measures taken. Even in the Security Policy Council, the Prime Minister has not been informed – the Council set up specifically for issues relating to national security. The Minister of Defence did not contact the Minister of Infrastructure nor did he take any steps to ensure that the overall damage was limited. On matters of national security, we cannot accept such a passive approach. Despite the importance of information between the Government and the Riksdag on matters of great importance in the field of foreign and security policy, the Minister of Defence did not provide any information to Parliament and its committees. This shows a lack of understanding and respect for Parliament and for our democratic institutions and processes. No circumstances have changed since the assessment we presented this summer. Peter Hultqvist has seriously failed in his responsibility by the way in which he has acted in connection with the security crisis. The Parliament should therefore declare that he no longer enjoys the confidence of the Riksdag.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-18	Mr President, I would like to In view of what has just been mentioned by Berit Högman of the Social Democrats, I would like to start by saying that a deteriorating security policy situation is not an argument for maintaining a defence minister who has shown a lack of judgment. That is an argument against. Last week we also heard, among other things, from one of the two Green Party supporters of the Social Democrats that the motion of censure on which today's vote is based would be devoid of sense and balance. This is not an assessment shared by the Swedish Democratic Parliamentary Group. Mr President, I would like to Our country, our culture, our freedom, our democracy and our security are the finest and most precious things we have. The country's Minister of Defence is one of the main guardians of these values. In view of the inalienable values at stake, the demands must be extremely high on a Minister of Defence in terms of judgment, efficiency, accuracy and readiness to do their utmost in any given situation to ensure Sweden's security and security. We believe that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist has broken all of these points. At an early stage, the Minister of Defence became aware of the safety failure at the Swedish Transport Agency. The Minister for Defence is also a member of the Security Policy Council which, according to the Prime Minister, meets every month and whose main task is to discuss and coordinate various issues relating to Sweden's security. However, at none of these meetings did the Minister of Defence choose to inform the Prime Minister that national security had been seriously compromised. As we see it, there can really only be three explanations for this. The first possible explanation is that the Minister for Defence has failed in his judgment and mismanaged his task in the Security Policy Council. The second possible explanation is that the media data from sources within the Government Office are correct, i.e. that the Security Policy Council is really just a paper construction, a PR-bluff with the intention of tricking the Swedish people into believing that the government prioritises security issues higher than what is actually being done. In that case, the Minister of Defence has helped to deceive the Swedish people. A third possible explanation is that the Secretary of Defense has actually informed the Prime Minister but that he is now lying openly about it to protect Stefan Löfven. Regardless of which of these scenarios is consistent with the truth, there are strong reasons for feeling a lack of confidence in the Minister for Defence. Another such reason is the lack of respect shown by the Minister for Defence by the Swedish people's representatives by not informing the Riksdag and the Committee on Defence. In sum, Mr President, we have a Minister of Defence who, in a situation of security policy crisis, has shown inaction and lack of judgment and has himself admitted that he has made mistakes. The question is how can we trust that he does not make similar or worse mistakes the next time a serious security crisis occurs? The answer to that question, Mr President, is that we cannot. That is why the Swedish Democrats will today vote in favour of a motion of censure on the Minister for Defence.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-29	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that the Swedish Transport Agency's procurement of IT operations has taken place in an unacceptable and harmful manner for Sweden. The Government has appointed an investigator to review the procurement, which has led to security sensitive and for other reasons confidential information being handled in a way that is contrary to Swedish law. The Government has also taken steps to ensure that security-classified information of other authorities is handled correctly and safely. In what has been said, there is nothing that the Green Party sees as a reason to censure Minister Hultqvist. We have full confidence in the Secretary of Defense. I therefore call on the Environment Party to reject the Moderates' proposal to censure Minister Hultqvist.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-33	Mr President, I would like to When the IT scandal at Transportstyrelsen and the breakdown of information within the Government Office were brewed, the Alliance acted jointly, forcefully and responsibly. This led to the immediate resignation of two responsible ministers. In the light of the information available at the time, the Alliance felt that Peter Hultqvist should also leave the government – this because he did not inform the Prime Minister of what he knew about the Swedish Transport Agency's safety deficiencies. Since July, new information has been added. It changes the assessment. The information about the Swedish Transport Agency has been available at the Prime Minister's Committee and in the Prime Minister's own office. As a result, the Prime Minister's immediate associate has left his post on a Sunday evening after an urgent government meeting. The information also shows that the Minister for Defence has been able to assume that the Prime Minister has received the information that the Prime Minister's close associates also have. There is no doubt, Mr President, that the Minister for Defence, Peter Hultqvist, has acted irreproachably. It's strange that he claims he hasn't spoken to the Prime Minister. However, the factual basis that existed earlier this summer has fallen as the information on the security scandal has been available to the Prime Minister's immediate employees at an early stage. The Center Party will therefore abstain in today's vote. At the same time, it is important not to let the question of mistrust or not of the Minister for Defence obscure what this is really about. It's one of the biggest security scandals in modern times. The KU review must continue. Such a review will necessarily focus on, among other things, the responsibility of the Prime Minister, including the organisation of crisis management at the Government Office. The cards must be placed on the table. Responsibilities must be demanded. The Swedish people deserve complete clarity about how the government has managed Sweden's security.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-37	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party disagrees with the government on important aspects of defence policy, for example in the rapprochement with NATO, where we believe that the host country agreement must be dismantled. But to argue, as the Moderates and Christian Democrats, that Peter Hultqvist would not be a functioning Minister of Defence, we believe to be unserious. We will therefore not support today's motion of censure. The Left Party is not part of the government. We are a party in opposition, and we will therefore abstain in today's vote.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-39	Mr President, I would like to The safety leak at the Swedish Transport Agency is very serious. We do not yet have the full picture of this accident. New tasks are constantly emerging. When, on 26 July, the Alliance announced a motion of censure on Minister of Defence Hultqvist, this was based on the information available at the time, i.e. the information that the Prime Minister had given the days before, both at a press conference and to the party leaders. The Prime Minister then stated that he and his State Secretary had been informed about the security leak only at the turn of the year 2016/ 17. According to this information, the Minister of Defence had been aware of the security leak for about ten months without informing the Prime Minister, without informing the responsible Minister, without informing the Government's Security Council and without informing the Riksdag. The main responsibility of the Secretary of Defense is to protect national security against foreign power. The fact that he didn't sound the alarm when big security values were at stake is spectacular. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance assumed that the Prime Minister provided correct information at the end of July. New tasks have now emerged. The Constitutional Committee has begun its examination. Exactly how the new information that has emerged affects the assessment of precisely the defence minister's responsibilities in this matter will be finally decided during the hearings of the Constitutional Committee or after that when they have been completed. The actions of the Secretary of Defense, or lack of action, are serious. The role of the Minister for Defence is therefore also a central issue in the ongoing review. But new questions have also been raised about the Prime Minister's responsibility, that is, about the Prime Minister's actions as ultimately responsible for how the Government Office is organised and how it manages its mission. In addition, more light is needed on the actions and responsibilities of Ann Linde, then Secretary of State. Mr President, I would like to When the alliance parties announced this position last summer, we were already very clear at the time that it could be reconsidered if new facts came to light. This has now happened, and we are in a new situation. One must somehow act on the basis of the information one has at each individual occasion. That is why we also need to be prepared to reconsider the assessments made with the information we had in the past. Therefore, the withdrawal of the Liberals today does not mean that we exclude the possibility that statements of censure may in future be directed against Minister of Defence Hultqvist or anyone else in the government. This may become the case again when the review in the Constitutional Committee is further advanced. Pending this, Mr President, we intend to abstain in today's vote.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-46	Mr President, I would like to In today's vote, the Christian Democrats will pursue the mistrust of Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The motion of censure is based on the serious safety crisis caused by criminal offences at the Swedish Transport Agency. Confidential information relating to national security may have become available to foreign powers. The Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service have highlighted the seriousness of the incident. The data included, for example, information that makes it possible to track and register individuals with secret addresses and protected identity. The government's lack of management of this security crisis has been described as an information failure. The Council of State has failed in responsibility. The pleas put forward jointly by the Alliance to incite mistrust of the Minister for Defence Hultqvist in July remain. The new information that has emerged since the Alliance gave notice is not about Peter Hultqvist having acted in any other way than we knew at the time. At the end of August, information emerged that the Prime Minister's closest employee, Secretary of State Emma Lennartsson, had received information much earlier than Stefan Löfven had given information about. It's had consequences for the Secretary of State. She's resigned. But the Secretary of State's fault does not correct the defence minister's fault, Mr President. Our assessment is that the replies presented by the Government Office in the current review show that Peter Hultqvist has not acted responsibly in connection with the safety crisis at the Swedish Transport Agency. The Minister of Defence has a special responsibility in matters relating to national security and total defence. Peter Hultqvist reportedly had information since March 2016. Nevertheless, he did not inform the Prime Minister, and he did not make sure that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Infrastructure had information. Hultqvist has not done what can be expected of him to ensure that the Prime Minister was informed about what was going on, namely a huge security crisis. Hultqvist has not raised the issue in the Security Policy Council that the Prime Minister has just set up to deal with issues relating to national security. He has not informed the Swedish Parliament. He has also not reacted to the fact that the Director General of the Swedish Transport Agency could remain in office until January 2017 despite the extensive leakage that has occurred and that forced the Swedish Armed Forces to take action. The basis for mistrust therefore remains. No circumstances have changed. The new information that has emerged is not the kind of information that is needed to give a different message than what we gave this summer. That is why the Christian Democrats are standing firm. We are voting in favour of this vote and we are following up on the mistrust of Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. He has seriously failed in his responsibilities, and the Riksdag should therefore declare that he no longer enjoys the confidence of the Riksdag.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-58	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked Isabella Lövin if she and the government have estimated what emission reductions the electric vehicle premium is expected to lead to and why the Government and Government do not focus on cost-effective environmental and climate measures. The interpellation has been handed over to me. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government presents the largest ever budget investment on climate and environment, a total of SEK 5 billion in 2018. Unlike the bourgeois opposition, the government takes responsibility and climate and environmental challenges seriously and spends more than twice as much on climate and environmental work compared with previous governments. It is to take responsibility for future generations and to see the potential of the jobs and developments that come with green society. In the growing cities there are both air quality problems and great competition for land. The main source of increased levels of air pollution is road traffic. A more vibrant city needs priority. Especially in cities, more people have the opportunity to cope with their everyday lives without their own car. Good urban planning increases the possibility of transport-efficient cities, which can at the same time make it easier for travellers to choose a high-capacity public transport, walking and cycling instead of a passenger car. In order to increase the opportunities for cities to solve many of today's environmental and climate challenges, the government has established several tools, including the urban environment agreements and climate change issues. These aids are now complemented by an electric vehicle premium for more people to choose light electric vehicles for their daily journeys. In order to improve the conditions for commuting and transporting climate friendly, the Government allocates SEK 350 million in 2018 to an electric vehicle premium for the purchase of an electric bicycle or an electric moped. This will allow, among other things, possible bike commuters to have access to electric vehicles and easier to opt out of car travel. Electric bicycles are a relatively new technology that has the potential to be used in commuting as an alternative to the car. Sustainable Innovation, for example, has conducted a study that shows that electric cycling is more interesting than ordinary cycling among car commuters in Stockholm and Gothenburg. We do not just need to look strictly at cost-effectiveness. In addition to cost-effectiveness, we need to see a broader perspective on how policies can be designed to give us a better, more attractive future society. In that society, public transport, cycling and walking have an important role to play, not least in cities. Johan Hultberg suggests that the government invests too much in the transition to a fossil-free transport system and that the development now goes by itself. The government's assessment is that, on the contrary, it requires instruments to switch Sweden to the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It is positive that sales of electric bicycles are increasing. So does the sale of electric cars. The government is introducing a bonus – the Malus system to speed up the conversion of the fleet of vehicles, and for those who want to choose to let the car stand, we are now also facing a premium for light electric vehicles. Our generation will be able to hand over a society to our children where the major environmental problems are solved. Much remains to be done. The Government has previously presented major initiatives in the field of climate and environment. It is well-invested funds that reduce emissions and contribute to a green community building with jobs and development throughout Sweden. It is difficult to assess in advance the exact climate impact of the investment, partly due to the difficulty of anticipating behavioural changes and actual migration effects. There are many uncertainties. If we get a transfer from car to bicycle commuting, it means positive health effects through reduced noise and air pollution, and it also means improved health through everyday exercise. The Government will closely and continuously monitor the climate and environmental impact of the reform.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-70	Mr President, I would like to I asked about the effectiveness of government policy, and what is the Minister's response? Well, the minister responds by boasting about how big the government's efforts are. The Minister says that increased costs are to take responsibility. Mr President, I would like to I think this is quite telling. The government seems to think that environmental and climate policy is mostly a game, where the highest funding wins. The environmental and climate challenges are, in my opinion, far too large and serious to be met with ineffective measures. For us Moderates, the results will always be the focus, and we will try to pursue a policy that shows respect for taxpayers' money – an effective policy, where declining emissions go hand in hand with strong economic development. Taking responsibility is not sending a juicy bill to taxpayers for ineffective measures that do not deliver emission reductions, or very small ones. I set this interpellation based on the fact that we see a very positive trend with increased sales of electric bicycles, but also ordinary bikes. We are seeing urbanisation, which is certainly a driving force behind this, and of course also the fact that it is becoming increasingly narrow in our major cities and more and more people are discovering that the cycle is a fantastic alternative to the car, economically, environmentally and, as the Minister pointed out, also in terms of health. Now that we see that electric bicycles are increasing their market share significantly and that sales went from around 30 000 electric bicycles in 2015 to 45 000 in just one year, i.e. a 50 % increase, we really need to question the usefulness of introducing a subsidy. Sales are increasing enormously, and the question is: Is it right to introduce new instruments when we already see the development we are asking for? Cycling and the use of electric vehicles are increasing. I do not think it is responsible to use taxpayers' money in this way: to increase taxes on jobs, entrepreneurship and even savings to subsidise e-bike sales. I asked the Minister what emission reductions the government had anticipated that the premium or subsidy would give and unfortunately got no answer to that. The Minister was content to say that it is difficult to assess in advance the exact climate effect of the investment. Well, that is difficult, but can the Minister at least give an approximate estimate of what emission reductions this effort is expected to provide? How much emission reductions do taxpayers receive for their SEK 350 million? Furthermore, Mr President, it is very unclear what this system should look like – what criteria should apply and when the premium is introduced. This uncertainty creates problems for bicycle dealers and for us consumers. We do not know what applies and what will apply in the future. Will the government impose any sustainability requirements? Will this be introduced at the turn of the year or mid-year? Will the government impose requirements to ensure that there is no cheating? How should subsidisation be controlled? Mr President, I would like to There are many questions, and so far the answers from the government are very few. But above all: what does the Minister estimate that the subsidy will provide in the form of emission reductions?
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-79	Mr President, I would like to Even during Question Time last Thursday, a couple of questioners raised this question, and I am very pleased that Johan Hultberg has asked this interpellation so that we can have an in-depth discussion on this. I represent the Liberals, but I think we fully agree that cycling in itself has a great value. These are both environmental and health effects; this is indisputable. When it comes to community planning for public transport, cycling and walking, we also agree. We had a point in the Environmental Objectives Committee where we discussed this as a norm for urban planning in the larger urban areas. It is a necessity, and it has to do with congestion and air quality. Then, as Johan Hultberg pointed out, this becomes an appropriation race. There are in many areas, but especially in the climate and environmental field, as Johan Hultberg said, a tendency towards the one with the greatest funding winning. We are talking about billions. But the important thing is to analyse what the millions and billions are going to. It must not, however, be a waste of tax money. Firstly, if we are talking specifically about the premium for electric vehicles, we are liberals in principle very sceptical about this type of subsidy for the purchase of bicycles and vehicles by individuals at all. In this particular case, we have a functioning and growing market, and there is, of course, a price squeeze in the system. As demand rises and more and more bicycles are sold, it would be strange if they did not become cheaper and cheaper. In such a situation, subsidizing purchases will upset the market. If the bicycle dealer knows that the customer who comes in already has 2 000 SEK onions in his pocket that he has received from the state, the trader is not likely to be very keen to squeeze the price. The trader knows that the customer still has a margin to trade with. This is probably the biggest objection to the electric vehicle premium: it strikes very wrong. There are more and more bikes. Therefore, one can question the environmental benefit and the climate benefit. But then the whole price pressure in the market is disrupted, which becomes a waste of tax money. Then, of course, the central government and municipalities have another important role to play in this context. Congestion has become a problem even in cycling, not least here in Stockholm. That's what we're talking about. There is often an irritation that you do not arrive on bike paths with different types of bikes. I would like to point out – and hopefully the Minister for the Environment can comment on this – that the infrastructure for the cycle is really the central point. It is the means by which the State is to engage – not to subsidise the purchase of vehicles by individuals.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-88	Mr President, I would like to This debate has developed in a very exciting way. I have heard that the Moderates only want to target environmental measures at things that are really effective. Liberals have said that they are against the state paying subsidies to private vehicle purchases. Which government instituted the so-called super-environmental car premium, where the state subsidises and gives money to those who buy diesel cars? The super-environmental car premium cost 700 million in the state budget, and it involved, in addition to clean cars, electric cars, also diesel cars, which has led to a large increase in sales of diesel cars in Sweden in recent years. I really look forward to hearing the arguments about how it is more cost-effective than the subsidy of a much cheaper and completely clean vehicle, such as the electric cycle, and why it differs. Why is one vehicle more relevant from the point of view of the state than the other? I would like to take this opportunity to point out that our society is still not equal. Men generally have higher income, buy more cars and drive more cars. Women have lower incomes and can travel more by public transport and bicycle. We can mention that the sales of electric cars and charging hybrids have also increased exponentially. I understand that we agree that it is relevant to continue to promote the sale of electric cars. I have not heard Johan Hultberg or others question that support. So this support goes to men, because more men buy expensive cars for half a million. But why would it be less worth if a woman with a lower income wanted to buy an electric bicycle for her commuting? When we work with the transport sector, we have to change the whole sector and look at the different pieces of the puzzle. Bonus – Malus is a piece of the puzzle. E-bikes are something that it makes sense to promote. There's a trend going on. It is true that the sales of electric bicycles in Sweden are increasing, but we are in no way at the forefront of Sweden. Both in Holland and Germany, sales are moving much faster. I understand that the interpellants see it as if we were to settle for a slow increase in e-bike sales and that it would be problematic if we speed it up further, so that it goes really quickly. It's a picture that I and the government don't share. We see that there is a momentum in terms of electric bicycles in society, and we take the opportunity to strengthen that development. It contributes to the technological leaps that we need to achieve fossil freedom. In the Environment Agenda, we agreed across block borders that new instruments are needed for the transformation of the transport sector, but I do not see any proposals from the opposition. What instruments are they supposed to be? Instead, we find fault with the instruments proposed by the government. But I see other concrete proposals. What instruments do you want to see, which are more efficient and contain the whole of the transport sector, so that we have a proper technological leap and a real transition to a fossil-free economy? I do not have an answer to this. It has been quite a long time since the Environmental Objectives Committee presented its report, and since then we have been working on a range of instruments that meet different parts of the transport sector.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-97	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that the Minister again missed the opportunity to answer my main question: how much emission reductions are these SEK 350 million expected to give? I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the Minister simply has no idea – that the government has not calculated it or that no figure has been found. I can find that remarkable in itself. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I would also like to try to respond to some of the criticisms and answer some of the questions the Minister put to me, my party and the Alliance. Why, for example, is it right to provide aid for the conversion of the fleet of vehicles in the case of road traffic while we are critical of this proposal? Generally speaking, the Moderates rightly have a critical attitude toward subsidies. As far as possible, we want to make use of generally acting instruments, such as emissions tax, CO2 tax or EU emissions trading. These are technology-neutral instruments. They are the most efficient, and they make the polluter pay. From time to time, there may be reasons to supplement the general instruments with targeted measures such as the super-environmental car premium, which boosted the conversion of the fleet. When the Alliance took office in 2006, after Albania, Sweden had the oldest and most fuel-intensive fleet in Europe. Through the environmental car premium, which was then replaced by the super-environmental car premium, we got an environmental car boom, then a super-environmental car boom, and we got the change. But we still see that buying the environmentally better car is often an economically worse option. Therefore, there may be grounds for having subsidies. That is why the Moderates and the other alliance parties are behind the proposal for a bonus – the Malus system, although we have views on the design chosen by the government. From the Moderates' side, we have also pushed for longer and heavier transport, for reduction obligations, for a good cycling strategy and so on. But we say flatly no to measures that are nothing but a waste of taxpayers' money. There is no reason to introduce a subsidy when we see that the sales of electric bicycles have increased by 50 %. It also gets a little strange with a subsidy to buy an e-bike but not to buy a regular bike. In fact, there is a risk that many people will choose an electric bike instead of riding on their own machine. It is, in fact, a worse option for the environment and the climate, the Minister for the Environment! I don't think it's crucial to get more people to choose the bike and set the car is the cost of buying an electric bike or a regular bike. It is already brilliant for the household economy to let the car stand and take the bike, whether it is an electric bicycle or a regular bicycle. This is particularly true here in Stockholm, where the cost of parking is sky high and there is also congestion tax. Thus, as a private individual, there is already a strong financial incentive to let the car stand and take the bike. I do not think it is the purchase price that is crucial, but other factors. As Lars Tysklind was concerned with the infrastructure. Then that's where we're going to focus our efforts. The municipalities in particular have a great responsibility, but of course the state can do more. It would have been more well spent money to spend this 350 million on supporting an expanded, more efficient and safer infrastructure than subsidising the sale of electric bicycles, when we see an explosion in sales already today. Just as Mrs Tysklind mentioned, the premium or subsidy is also liable to reduce the price pressure and, rather, to increase the margins for traders. But the Minister is happy to answer the other questions – what the design should look like, when it will come into force, if sustainability requirements will be imposed, what control will look like and how to ensure that the bikes do not cross Sweden's borders. But again: the Minister will be happy to answer my question if the government has calculated how much emission reductions the proposal might provide.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-107	Mr President, I would like to I asked the question on Thursday and asked it again today. I can repeat: does the Minister not see a problem as to how a growing functioning market will be disturbed by the involvement of state subsidies for private purchases? Then I want to correct the minister a little bit. Liberals are very consistent in terms of subsidies. As early as last year, we felt that the super-environmental car premium had played its part – it was not included in the Liberals' draft budget last year. When it comes to bonus – malus we also say no to that type of construction. We also do not think that we should go in and give money for the purchase of vehicles. However, we work according to the polluter pays principle. We have proposals for increased vehicle tax on vehicles that emit a lot. I think we are very consistent in this kind of policy. Then there are other instruments. We fully agree that we must have instruments, but they must be effective. 350 million for smaller electric vehicles is not an effective instrument. On the liberal side, in recent years we have proposed differentiating travel allowances. We have supported the obligation to reduce emissions from cars. We have also been thinking about the cycle from a tax point of view and in the context of travel deductions. From the liberal side, we are very consistent in the way we reason. I object to the description that we are inconsistent, because we are not. But, as I said, the question to the Minister for the Environment remains: how can it be a functioning market when you enter and subsidise in this way? Nevertheless, it is a fairly large proportion of the purchase that the State would then go in and pay.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-111	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by apologizing. I made the mistake – it is easy to do so – to assume that the alliance parties are in agreement. I will be more careful in the debate ahead and separate you, because you are obviously different parties. I would like to address the question of infrastructure – I did not have time to do so in my previous speech. We fully agree that the most important thing for the cycle as a mode of transport and for it to develop is good infrastructure. There it is very clear that the previous government did absolutely nothing while our government has said that the state has a role to play in strengthening the work of municipalities and county councils to shape a good infrastructure in growing cities. This includes an opportunity to apply for funding for bicycle infrastructure in the urban environment agreements. It's very popular. We receive many applications from the municipalities. There are many growing cities that, when building new homes, want to take the opportunity to strengthen the infrastructure. It's really important. Specific investments are also needed to adapt the infrastructure to electric bicycles, given the problem raised by Lars Tysklind, which involves cycling at different speeds. It needs a specific consideration in the construction of infrastructure. There is also the difference between this government and the previous one very clear. We believe that the state should not assume responsibility from the municipalities, but the state can play a role and take a role today. As far as electric bicycles are concerned, we have good studies showing that they have a special potential to contribute to a shift from private carism to cycling in and near cities. It is a potential with great socio-economic benefit. It is about health benefits, about the importance of reducing noise and air pollution and about choosing to cycle longer distances. It is not self-evident that the health effect is reduced if you go from ordinary bikes to electric bikes. If you choose to cycle a longer distance with the electric cycle, it is not at all obvious. There is potential, and we have a good basis for that potential. But we are making several reforms at the same time. We want a change throughout the transport sector. It is very difficult to make precise forecasts of the impact of each individual reform on emissions in this process. Of course, we will be following this reform closely. I share the view that subsidies should be cautious and moderate. Maybe they shouldn't go on too long. Maybe they should be time-limited. However, one should not be so careful as to refrain from making interventions that affect different groups. Just subsidising cars and saying that it is quite wrong to subsidise simpler vehicles that are open to larger groups in society, we do not agree. One argument that I find very weak is this: it is only when something is expensive and can be provided for smaller groups in society that we can subsidise. But the main point is, is it going to be quick, or is it going to be slow? Is it important that the pace is careful, or do we want a rapid transition so that we get a fossil-free society? It's very clear to me. It needs to be quick.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-118	Mr President, I would like to Now the Minister had four new minutes to answer my questions. I didn't get an answer to anyone. It is simply the case that the government does not have the answers to the questions I ask. The government does not have an answer to how large emission reductions the proposal might provide. The government does not have a clear idea of how the system should be designed, when it should enter into force, what the rules should look like and so on. I think that in itself is actually at risk of being counterproductive. The government's proposal creates enormous uncertainty. Right now, Sweden's bicycle dealers are placing orders for next year's sales, and they have no idea what the conditions are. Consumers do not know what will happen. Well, there will be a premium that will probably be an aid of 25 percent up to SEK 10,000. You don't know. This creates uncertainty and risks leading to sales slowing down rather than speeding up. This happens at a time when we actually see that sales have already taken off. There was a 50% increase last year. That's our point, Karolina Skog. Our point is that electric bicycles are great. It is great if this can increase, but the subsidy is not needed. It is a wasteful policy. You're wasting taxpayers' money. You raise taxes on jobs, entrepreneurship and savings, and you waste your money. It is irresponsible, Mr President. Given the Minister's answer, I can see that the government does not know how much emission reductions the aid provides. The government does not yet have a clear idea of how the support should be designed. Nevertheless, it seems reasonable to introduce it. I think it shows that the government is in no way of the view expressed by the Minister: to be careful about subsidies. This shows that the government is really putting forward an election budget in which it is trying to show that it is giving support to one, than the other in the hope of getting support from the voters. But it is not a responsible economic policy. It is not an effective and responsible climate policy.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-121	Mr President, I would like to I will devote my last speech to commenting on the elements relating to the precise form of aid and when it can enter into force. I was asked at Question Time and stated that we are preparing this with great urgency at the Government Office. I also said that having a dialogue with the industry is an important part of that preparation. Since Question Time we have had such a dialogue with the industry. It was important to hear which questions are most important for them to find out when we answer. The most important thing for them is the time when it comes into force. They also said that this is exactly the type of support that they want to see in order for the electric cycle to have the breakthrough that they feel is needed. After having that date, we are moving on as a matter of urgency. We will shortly provide information on all relevant issues. It is about when this will enter into force and about exactly what the aid should look like. Of course, it would be inappropriate for me to comment here in any direction. We will give a comprehensive and clear indication of when the aid will enter into force and of the exact shape it will take. It will happen shortly.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-124	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the opportunity to participate in my first interpellation debate as Minister– it feels exciting.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-126	It is important for people to have good access to interregional public transport throughout the country. EU law allows the competent authorities of the Member States to impose public service obligations under certain conditions and to procure services in the absence of the conditions for the commercial operation of the route. In Sweden, the Finnish Transport Administration decides on public service obligations. According to the Finnish Transport Administration's instructions, the task is to conclude and be responsible for the state's agreements on transport policy-driven interregional public transport, including air traffic. I and the Government believe that the task of analysing the interregional public transport services that should be subject to public service obligations in order to reduce accessibility gaps remains with the Finnish Transport Agency.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-129	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer, although I think it was somewhat thin. There are many people and entrepreneurs – and also politicians from all parties – in Dalarna who had hoped for an answer that had given some kind of glimmer of hope on this issue. Mora-Siljan Airport is a regional airport for northern and western Dalarna, and it is of great importance to the business community. Over the past few decades, a large part of the companies and businesses in Dalarna have gone from being family-owned companies that have acted in a national market to becoming listed companies with international ownership, acting in an international market in global competition. However, we still have many small and medium-sized enterprises that are family-owned and that have also taken the step from a national market out to an international market. The government writes on its own website that, that, Sweden is a country that is completely dependent on our competitiveness in global markets. For the government, it is important for Swedish companies to compete with their skills, productivity and innovation capacity. ..................................................... It also writes on the website: a growing, competitive and innovative company also needs more SMEs to be able, willing and daring to take the step into an international market. ..................................................... This is a great piece of paper, which I think everyone in this House is up to. But then what? What is the action behind the words? When the Finnish Transport Administration decides whether or not to impose a public service obligation on an airport, it uses the EU's position on travelling times for trains to the capital city. 20 years ago it was possible to travel X 2000 from Mora to Stockholm with a travel time of 3 hours and 30 minutes. Today we ride old Intercity trains, and travel time has increased to 3 hours and 50 minutes. Today I got on the train at five o'clock in Mora. After various delays on several trains I came to Stockholm Central 5 hours and 50 minutes after departure from Mora. There is a big difference between the EU regulatory framework and the application of the Finnish Transport Administration. The EU sets the limit at three hours to reach the capital by train, while the Finnish Transport Agency sets the limit at four hours. Sometimes I wonder if there are different yardsticks for city and country. The Swedish negotiation wanted to connect our three major cities, and it was considered that the journey time by train had to be less than three hours in order for the train to compete with the aircraft. I wonder if the Government thinks it good that there are different yardsticks for city and country and if the Government has asked the Finnish Transport Agency why the EU's second most sparsely populated country uses the four-hour rule instead of the three-hour rule. I would also like to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that none of the companies in northern Dalarna are located at the travel centre in Mora – they are located a bit from there. All companies and people in Mora have more than four hours of travel time from their home or business. But when you're in the big city, you don't really know the distances. Anyone who lives in the northern part of the county, for example in Idre, and uses Mora airport has a drive of 2 hours and 15 minutes to the train station. For those living in Grövelsjön it takes 2 hours and 45 minutes to get by car to the train station. So it will be a nearly seven hours long trip to Stockholm. The four-hour limit should be checked, because it cannot be in line with the Government's ambitions that industry should have an opportunity to compete in the global market and keep Sweden together.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-143	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, I and a fellow Member of Parliament visited the company Morakniv in Mora. It is a company that is growing a lot – 20 more people have been hired over the past year. Mora knife exports 70 percent of its goods around the world and has sellers located around the world. There are quite a few such companies in Mora and the surrounding area. For them, it is crucial that they can fly in and out their sellers and customers. Rapid restructuring has meant that many previously owned companies are now largely owned by larger national and international groups. This has meant a greater dependence on fast and efficient communications to and from the owners and important export markets. The Sveg– Mora– Arlanda route is a prerequisite for the export-dependent industry and for the growing tourism industry. This route is also a prerequisite for the long-term existence of the airport. It takes between three and a half and four hours by train from Mora to Arlanda. If we bring in all the crane municipalities, we can say that it takes two and a half hours by car from Idre to Mora. Orsa, Älvdalen and Malung-Sälen all have a number of poor accessibility criteria, which can be improved with air service obligations on the route. Mora lasaret is also heavily dependent on air traffic for its skills supply. It is also dependent on the airport for the possibility of patient, blood and organ transportation. Without air traffic on the Mora – Arlanda route, hundreds of jobs in our region will be threatened in the long term. It may also be difficult to maintain Mora lasarett's status as an emergency hospital. To permanently connect Mora to the already procured line Sveg – Arlanda cannot cost the Finnish Transport Administration much, but this would significantly improve business development opportunities in the region. A reasonable solution has now been found to stop in Mora on the Sveg – Arlanda route and in the opposite direction. Mr President, I would like to I hope that together we can continue to work towards finding a solution for maintaining air traffic on the Mora – Arlanda route.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-152	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to note that there seems to be a great deal of political agreement in this House. I would like to begin by expressing the hope that the Minister for Infrastructure will take this with him in the further assessment. Of course, in an ideal world, all air traffic could carry itself. However, we are not there, and both the Minister for Infrastructure and the rest of us in this House know that. Society has a fundamental responsibility for infrastructure – both road and rail traffic and air traffic. As Peter Helander stated earlier, we have an anomaly in Sweden in that the responsible authority, the Finnish Transport Agency, chooses to apply the EU acquis in a completely different way than most other EU Member States do. This has become significant for how Swedish administration often does. You gold plating, make up your own rules and make the regulations more extensive and comprehensive, which means that Sweden loses competitiveness. Swedish companies are losing competitiveness because the yardstick is simply harder. For example, the EU regulatory framework that regulates this states that public service obligations may be notified if the journey time exceeds three hours. The Finnish Transport Administration has chosen to make its own interpretation, seemingly unfounded, where the journey time should exceed four hours. Then you have to ask yourself whether it is only the Finnish Transport Administration's job to rule over this, or does the government have any responsibility? It is simple that as a government every time a decision is inconvenient hiding behind the responsible authority. But ultimately, the government has to lead and govern its authorities. We should recall that the previous government, for example, chose to go in and point with the whole hand in the case of the public service obligations at Torsby Airport. It was noted that this is important for regional development and that the government must take the lead. If it is now the case that the Swedish Transport Administration stands and weighs on the question of Mora airport, it would be very welcome if the government could clarify what the political position is. I see the political position in this House as rather unanimous, that we should try to ensure a public service obligation at Mora airport, especially now that we have a functioning route Mora – Sveg. It is therefore economically efficient and picks up two important centres that otherwise have poor communications. As Peter Helander also stated: At best, travel time from Mora travel centre to Stockholm Central is 3 hours and 50 minutes. But very few people live at the Mora travel centre. And in many cases rail traffic does not work in such a satisfactory way that people dare to trust it when planning meetings and other things. The airline is needed as a redundant system for the whole of Sweden to live. I hope that we can safeguard this and that the government can be wise on this issue.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-162	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your contributions. It is gratifying that we agree on what is the fundamental analysis here: the market cannot do everything. Society sometimes has to go in and find what is impossible to cope with under market conditions. I myself come from Småland and am well aware of what conditions are needed for the export industry, tourism and other industries in order to be able to fight in international markets. Fundamental to the whole attitude of the government when it comes to building a policy for the whole country to live is to guarantee government services throughout the country. We are doing this now by delocalising authorities, ensuring government services and taking greater responsibility than previous governments may have done for infrastructure investments to be made throughout the country. However, this interpellation should bear in mind that the question is posed on the basis of the reasoning that there are rumours that the Swedish Transport Administration intends to make decisions and that there are concerns about what the Swedish Transport Administration intends to decide on. Therein lies the dilemma of the timing of this interpellation debate. I cannot and should not, as a minister at this stage, go in and talk about how the Swedish Transport Administration should act. They own the decision-making power themselves. However, there is no doubt that the government is strongly committed to ensuring that we have good communications throughout the country. And to be a little clear about this, we are well aware that we now have a well-functioning structure in terms of state operating aid to airports. However, in the aviation strategy decided by the government, we have been clear that we are now going to review the regulations governing operating aid to regional airports. We will provide regional airports with better conditions for their operations. We will also review the conditions for the state to assume a collective responsibility. I believe that we must create long-term conditions for a national structure so that we do not end up in a situation where, due to temporary opinions or proximity to electoral movements, we choose to pick out individual projects. That is why it is a more structured approach that the government is now taking when it comes to ensuring good relations throughout the country. As I said, in the current action plan we spend SEK 100 billion more than in the last planning period on building a strong infrastructure throughout the country. That is why I have good hopes that we will also be able to agree on this in the future, because we seem to share the commitment across the bloc to the whole country's life. Now we finally have a government that takes that responsibility.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-169	Mr President, I would like to I'll keep putting the situation in words. Regardless of political affiliation, there is a view in Dalarna, at least right now, that we constantly end up in the back water when it comes to infrastructure investments, which may seem a little strange when Dalarna is the country's third or fourth largest export country and also Sweden's third or fourth largest tourist industry county. Dalarna contributes to Sweden's growth and with better infrastructure could contribute further. We have in my home region northern Dalarna had some closures of profitable companies. I have spoken to Group management myself and am interested in knowing why you are moving even though you have profitability. The answer is almost always to get closer to the customers and the market in Poland and Germany. One of our successful Mora companies is currently owned by the Schneider Group, which is a multinational company operating worldwide and based in France. Each of us can understand that if you know at a head office in Europe that it takes a long time to get to Mora than to Azerbaijan, it is easy for the factory to close down. That's just the way it is. Last Tuesday, Dagens Industri had a debate by a number of representatives of both industrial and visitor industries in northern Dalarna, warning of the consequence of the departure of scheduled flights from Mora. The importance of aviation in reaching markets and customers is crucial for these companies. They say that they have great hopes that the government and all political forces will impose public service obligations so that we can maintain those companies that invest outside the big cities and want to contribute to the development of society. If the flight were to disappear from Mora-Siljan Airport, it would not only hit hard on jobs and business, but it would also make Sweden's global competitiveness more difficult. As the Government has pointed out, the Government has made a legitimate effort to keep the whole of Sweden together, although as a regional political spokesperson for the Center Party I think it is too little and perhaps a little misplaced. But at least that's an ambition. And if the government is serious about keeping the whole of Sweden together, it now has an excellent opportunity to show that jobs and entrepreneurship outside the big cities are an important issue. To say that it is the task of the Finnish Transport Administration to decide on public service obligations is not to take the responsibility that I think the Government and the Government should take. The Finnish Transport Administration has no overall view of the matter, but it should have a minister and a government. The Finnish Transport Administration needs guidance on this matter. I wonder if the Government thinks that sufficient account is being taken of the complex issue of jobs and entrepreneurship in northern and western Dalarna and that it takes into account the issue of public service obligations. We have competitive disadvantages because of the distance. It is reasonable for the Government to take the necessary measures in the interests of jobs and businesses. If the Government fails to act, the consequences may be disastrous. These are strong words, but these are not just my words, but there are many who agree with me about what could happen if regular flights disappear. The Finnish Transport Agency needs guidance on the issue of the public service obligations for flights Mora– Arlanda. As Marie Olsson has mentioned, the route Sveg – Arlanda with a stopover in Mora is being procured today, and I think it says in Trafikverket's training that you can stop there. This is where the Swedish Transport Administration has really changed foot. A simple and good solution would be to impose public service obligations on the entire Sveg– Mora– Arlanda route. The extra cost that would arise is probably marginal if there is even any higher cost.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-179	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. If the government keeps hiding behind the phrase that it is not up to them to try, to have an opinion on and to like, has it not a little capitulated for their mission as a government? I note that the previous government was able to state in the regulatory letter that there would be a public service obligation at Torsby Airport after the Finnish Transport Administration had made an assessment that was not in accordance with the Government's assessment of regional development in the area. I understand that the Minister for Infrastructure cannot go in and review the current decision-making process. But then one must ask: Is the Minister of Infrastructure prepared to reconsider afterwards in the event that the Finnish Transport Administration would conclude that the public service obligations should not be in place at Mora airport? At least that is a question to which the Minister for Infrastructure should be able to answer.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-183	Mr President, I would like to I take note of the latter. But the previous government did the reconsideration after the Finnish Transport Administration had made a decision. What is the dilemma is the timing of this interpellation. I cannot and should not go into a situation where Trafikverket is considering making decisions but must wait until Trafikverket has made a decision. But my starting point is, of course, what I have said all along: we are a government that wants the whole country to have good conditions and relations. We have increased the possibilities for infrastructure investments throughout the country. We ensure that we have good support for regional airports throughout the country. We are acting, unlike what the alliance government did. The review announced in the flight strategy includes, of course, looking at how the Swedish Transport Administration works and follows rules and what motivations exist. It is important for us to find a coherent structure in the future. That must be the starting point, because then we will create stable and long-term conditions for operators both in terms of air traffic and airports. Some investments are made in the near future, not least in the Dala region. In such a situation, it is important to have a collection of regional actors and make common priorities when the government will then talk about what initiatives need to be made in the future.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-188	Mr President, I would like to In my last speech, I would like to send this with different yardsticks for city and country, the three hours of the European Union, the four hours of the Finnish Transport Agency and the three hours of Sweden's negotiation. It is not reasonable that we have different standards. I choose to interpret the Government positively: Society must go in sometimes, the whole country should live, there should be good relations, the government is strongly committed and long-term conditions are needed. The Government and the Government are in power to be able to enter in the Swedish Transport Administration's regulatory letter to charge the entire Mora – Arlanda route with public service obligations, and to procure the entire Sveg– Mora– Arlanda route. I know that the Government cannot promise to do this on the ground, but I would like the Minister to promise that he will take appropriate action on this matter and not just lift his hands off the table and deny responsibility and say that it is the Finnish Transport Administration that will do this. Trafikverket's one-dimensional treatment of the public service issue regarding Mora – Arlanda is not good. However, I choose to interpret the intentions of the Government positively, and I hope that we will find a solution to this.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-193	Mr President, I would like to I do not lift my hands from this; I am just careful to follow the rules that exist for the exercise of the minister of state. We have just had a vote of censure, and I certainly do not want to end up in such a situation. That's why I'm following the rules that exist. I am deeply committed to these issues. I will go country and country around in connection with the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for an action plan. We will invest SEK 622.5 billion and another SEK 90 billion over the next eleven years in roads, railways and other transport modes. It is incredibly important for Sweden, and when we eventually present the priorities in the government's final product during the spring, we must take all the consideration that needs to be taken into account in order for the whole country to be able to stick together. Our country has been torn apart between city and country, between the one who has jobs and the one who doesn't have jobs, and between the poor and the rich. The gaps have increased. My ambition as a social democrat and our ambition as a government is to reduce the gaps in Sweden. An important part, in addition to ensuring that people get jobs, that we get a sensible distribution policy and that we connect the country, is to reduce them by means of the infrastructure investments that are to come. Here I hope for good talks with the opposition. I am basically such a politician who believes that we are well served if we can find broad agreements in these long-term investments so that the conditions for aviation operators or for a small municipality that wants to increase its local export industry's ability to enter the world market are good and long-term. I hope that we will get there, and that is the kind of conversation that I will have in the next six months.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-200	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson has asked me what directives I and the Government have given to Trafikverket regarding the implementation of the parliamentary handling of bill 2016/ 17:112 Freight traffic issues and what expectations I have regarding the scope of the road network that can now be opened to bearing class BK4. Let me begin by pointing out that the government wants to promote the transfer of goods transport from road to rail. That was also the starting point of the bill presented by the government. Efficient and climate-smart transport is an important part of the government's social construction. Right now, the government is working on developing a national good strategy that will be presented during the first half of 2018. There is now a new bearing class, BK4, which makes it possible with heavier vehicles and vehicle combinations than before. It is my hope that BK4 will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of Swedish industry and to reducing the environmental impact of transport. The Government Office is now preparing the necessary changes to regulations as a result of the Riksdag's decision. A few weeks ago, therefore, the Ministry of Industry referred a number of draft amendments to the regulation. They contain, among other things, provisions governing what bearing class 4 is and the rules to be applied to vehicles travelling on roads belonging to bearing class 4. When it comes to which state roads should belong to BK4, it is then the Swedish Transport Administration that makes decisions based on the Transport Regulation.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-205	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the Prime Minister in his new role and thank him for his answer. By allowing heavier trucks of up to 74 tonnes on a coherent part of the Swedish road network, the climate impact of road transport can be reduced while the cost of transport to industry can be significantly reduced. The very recent debate on the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry also underlines the importance of increased transport efficiency. Mr President, I would like to Surveys of which parts of the road network may be considered for heavy goods vehicles show that many roads already have a standard that can handle heavy goods vehicles. In the spring, the government presented the bill on Goods Transport issues. It proposed a new legislation that opens up for bearing class 4, with a total weight of up to 74 tonnes, on the Swedish road network. It was good and happened after several announcements had been made that this would happen. However, in view of the fact that it was going to be dealt with in this House, it was clear that the government was not going to allow heavy goods vehicles on all roads that were able to do so. Instead, the government's proposal meant that a very limited and incoherent road system, a system that would be impossible for both industry and haulage to relate to, would be identified. The designated road network would cover only a small part of the road network divided into five separate geographies, in the debate called the yarn ball. Mr President, I would like to All the limitations of the bill were in conflict with previous announcements and the Riksdag directed against the Government as well as with the investigation documents that the Swedish Transport Administration as an expert authority had developed as a basis for the bill. They show that it is the carrying capacity of roads for heavier vehicles and nothing else that should limit the overall implementation of the reform. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, I put my questions to Minister Eneroth, that is to say, what directives has the government given? What are the Government's expectations regarding the scope? Parliament adopted the bill, and that was a good thing. But it was done with a revised motif text. The motivational text that became Parliament's decision did not include the government's principle that the introduction of heavier trucks should not risk moving goods from rail and shipping to road. That part of the bill was removed. Instead, the motivation was that it is the carrying capacity of the roads that will determine which road network Trafikverket chooses to provide for heavier trucks and that this will be implemented quickly. After hearing the Government's answer, I still have to ask the question: According to what restriction principle does the Government Office prepare the regulations to go to the Finnish Transport Administration? Is it the carrying capacity of roads, as advocated by the parliamentary decision, that applies? Or is it still the government's original motivation behind the reform of the BK4, to prevent the transfer of goods from other modes of transport that apply? Mr President and the Government. It is important to know according to which principle the Government prepares the directives which will ultimately lead to new legislation.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-215	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Åkesson, for the question. We're both little kids. In order for the honourable Member to understand my strong commitment to this: I remember the storm Gudrun, when four years of fellings of forest would be out and then the bearing power and conditions on the road network were absolutely crucial. Then a proper redistribution was made so that we could meet that challenge. I bear this in mind when the government prepares proposals in the future for the important infrastructure efforts to be made. This means that we must have an infrastructure that will withstand this burden and the challenges ahead. That is why the whole development is positive. First we opened for 64 tonnes and then for 74, and now we refer the proposals. Anders Åkesson will be able to read the submitted proposal and see how we request views on the principles that should be valid for BK4 in the future. Our hope and starting point is that we will be able to use the great investment in infrastructure that we are now making to strengthen the road network in a well-functioning way. What should be prioritised must be what is right and important in terms of economic policy. This is also how the Swedish Transport Administration has reasoned when you want to specify the – I believe – over SEK 10 billion that you now want to spend on not least strengthening 900 bridges or urgent road routes, which needs to be done to meet the requirements that are in the future. My starting point is that we are well placed to be able to meet Parliament's announcement, but we have to wait for the views of the consultation bodies and prepare proposals in due course. I welcome, not least, the Center Party in such a dialogue. The starting point is that Sweden must strengthen its competitiveness. We must give the economy as a whole a good opportunity to cope with transport, and that also applies to heavy transport. This is smart for the climate and provides increased efficiency. This may be a good basis for discussion in the forthcoming good strategy.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-222	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for an evolving answer! It is interesting that the Government mentions the storm Gudrun closely followed by the storm Per. At that time– it wasn't that long ago– there was no Trafikverket, but it was a trackwork and a roadwork. At the time of Gudrun, the Banverket felt that in South Sweden timber was being moved not by rail but by road. The storm Gudrun's milling of four years of forest felling forced the whole transport sector to reconsider. In order to remove the many imbalances that existed in South Sweden, it was also decided to apply timber driving on the railways in South Sweden. This may be interesting to remember – the story is interesting sometimes. Mr President, I would like to Whatever storms or other driving forces, there is a need to move goods. Freight transport and transport in general are a challenge in terms of climate. There I believe that the Government and I have the same approach, namely that the climate impact should be reduced. Reduced climate impacts should be encouraged, and tests carried out with heavier and more load-efficient vehicles, whether on road or rail, show a significant reduction in climate emissions per tonne of goods transported when the weight or volume per vehicle or truck increases. In order for the business community to benefit from the parliamentary decision of 74 tonnes, we must, and ultimately the Swedish Transport Administration, create coherent stretches of roads that can be opened up. If the road network becomes too narrow, there are no incentives for anyone to invest in or demand more transport efficient and climate-smart vehicles, and most of the reform is thwarted. Of course, all modes of transport – rail, maritime, road and air – must be used wherever possible and appropriate, with the least possible climate impact. Sweden and the basic industries we have need all modes of transport in combination. As the Government is well aware, there is a shift between modes of transport – from road to rail and so on – in several directions at the same time. Often good road connections are an absolute prerequisite for volumes of goods to occur at all and for them to be moved by sea or rail. Therefore, it is important to make the parliamentary decision, converted into directives and regulations, neutral in relation to the modes of transport so that it becomes effective. Mr President, I would like to I interpret the Government's message positively – that it is the bearing of roads that should be the crucial limitation criterion in the preparation of the parliamentary decision that is currently under way. I think this is a good thing. Perhaps I would like to give the Government, which is now going to travel and listen to the wisest use of SEK 700 – 800 billion, the opportunity to think a little about why they use bearings and not the development part of this huge amount of money when bridges and their better bearings for increased traffic are discussed. In fact, this is a development of the mode of transport, whether it is a question of higher axle loads by rail or higher vehicle weight by road. Today we are squeezing at a rather small amount of carry-on.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-231	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the wise tips in the further preparation! I believe that we will have many good and good discussions on how we handle the Swedish Transport Administration's proposals and ensure that the resources available can be used to the best advantage. The Finnish Transport Agency itself says that the objective of the 10 billion or so currently in the framework of adapting the road network to cope with the higher load is to increase the load capacity of 70 to 80 percent of the roads that are most important for industry during the planning period. This is based on the basic socio-economic principles that the Finnish Transport Administration has when setting priorities. Here you should remember that there is also a pot in the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal, if I remember correctly, 1.2 billion kronor that is distributed in dialogue with the business community. I think this is important. If it's gonna work, we have to think strings, and we have to think the whole line. This is a prerequisite for those who are facing investments in vehicle fleets and for finding the combination of different modes of transport in order to have a working good strategy. This must be the starting point when we are gradually putting our foot down with regional and sectoral players in the forthcoming national infrastructure plan. I think we have a good chance of finding a broad consensus. I know there is a joy in the fact that there are now 100 billion more available than in the previous planning period. One or another will surely say that this is not enough, and that is, of course, because the underinvestments in the infrastructure sector are quite large. We had a period in Sweden when the then government chose to prioritise several hundreds of billions in tax cuts instead of investing in what builds the country strongly: housing, education, welfare and infrastructure. There is now strong pressure on infrastructure investment throughout the country, against the background of poor maintenance and investment. I am pleased that we now have 100 billion more than before, but it is clear that we will have to be tough with the priorities even at this point in time to ensure what is most important. My starting points and those of the government are clear, namely what creates the best conditions for business and for strengthening competitiveness, what helps to cope with climate change in a good and workable way and what ensures that we link the country together so that there is no further urbanisation. Companies and people should be able to live and live throughout the country and be able to continue with a company even in sparsely populated parts of the country. Of course, we should dare to be courageous in formulating future challenges for the infrastructure. We shall be at the forefront of technological development. In that debate, of course, I welcome a good dialogue with the Center Party, because I know that there is a strong commitment. We will, of course, follow the matter closely both in relation to 74 tonnes and BK4, but also in relation to other issues relating to the conditions for goods to get back and forth in our elongated kingdom.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-240	Mr President, I would like to It's a good tradition. This is the third time that the appropriations for transport infrastructure have now been substantially increased. This took place in 2010 and 2014, and it also takes place in 2018. Moreover, the story of 2010 was that we then had to manage a transport plan that was underfunded by about 60 billion. But it's been so long, the government, that we can draw a line on it. But it's good. I very much appreciate the Government's ambition here that we do not set modes of transport against each other. We aim for transport efficiency for both the environment and business. The government affirms a string thinking. It's wise and good. Regardless of the mode of transport, it is not a middle position anywhere for a cargo that is the current one, but it is to reach the customer from its source. I take it that it is the bearing capacity of the roads that should be the prevailing principle of the work that is going on. I am very pleased about this, because it means that the Government is following a parliamentary decision. I feel safe with it. I thank the Government for a good discussion.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-243	Mr President, I would like to I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the interpellation. Kerstin Lundgren has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she has addressed the consequences of the new rules for the exchange of driving licences for Swedes in international service with the relevant Minister and within the EU, and what measures the Minister for Foreign Affairs sees could solve the problems arising from the new legislation to ensure that this does not become an obstacle for Swedes in international service. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The amendments to the Driving Licence Act that affect the possibilities of renewing driving licences for Swedes living outside the EEA area entered into force on 1 May this year and were implemented in order for Sweden to comply with its obligations under the EU's third driving licence directive. Under the Third Driving Licence Directive, the renewal of a driving licence issued in the EEA requires the holder to be permanently resident on the territory of the Member State which issued the driving licence at the expiry date. They are considered permanent residents at the place where they normally live for at least 185 days each calendar year. The implementation of these rules in the EU directive was decided by Parliament in accordance with the Transport Committee's proposal for a position on 5 April 2017 without any reservations. According to the Swedish Transport Agency's estimate, approximately 3,000 such applications are made for renewal of Swedish driving licences from countries outside the EEA each year. The new rules mean that some of these people will not comply with the residence condition, as they are no longer registered in Sweden, nor will they return so regularly that the conditions are met. This does not mean, however, that their driving licences are withdrawn and that they would have to re-test the driver, but they can regain their Swedish driving licence when they move back if the requirements are otherwise met. The background to the changes made to the Third Driving Licence Directive is that the EU has seen a need to refine and harmonise practices on the exchange of driving licences from third countries. In the past, there has been no uniformity in this among the Member States, and no review has been made at all. There is also a safety aspect linked to the driving licence as an identification document, and there is a need to ensure as far as possible that the personal data underlying the production of driving licences are accurate. The amendments are based on an EU directive, which limits Sweden's scope for action when the rules are to be transposed into Swedish law. It is important that all licence holders residing outside the EEA are able to access the information about the new regulatory framework, where the Swedish Transport Agency, in collaboration with the Swedish authorities abroad, has a very important role. Since information to relevant Swedes in international service is important in this context, the Swedish Transport Agency and the foreign authorities have posted information about the changes to the rules on their websites and in certain social media. There are also opportunities for organisations and companies with employees outside the EEA to contact the Swedish Transport Agency for a dialogue on how best to avoid problems and solve the situation.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-251	Mr President, I would like to It's exciting. I welcome the Minister for Infrastructure in his new role. Now that the Minister for Infrastructure himself is here to respond to the interpellation and not the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I had expected an answer to the question whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has spoken to the Minister for Infrastructure on this issue. That was one of my questions. It was not just a question of highlighting the issue within the European Union. The Minister did not see a small and in my first question. I therefore expect an answer if the question has been discussed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs with the Minister for Infrastructure. If the issue has been discussed in this discussion, if it has taken place, has it led to any result, for example that the issue is raised within the EU? Mr President, I would like to The reason why I have made this interpellation is that Sweden thinks it is important that we have Swedes in international service. Then it can often be a question of having a driver's license in order to be able to take assignments. As far as the new legislation is concerned, it is about how to ensure that it is possible. What opportunities have been created, or are being prepared, to solve the problems that the Minister has noted have arisen? I have not noted an answer to that question. Nevertheless, I hope that I will receive an answer to this in some prepared speech from the Minister for Infrastructure. I have a question. The Minister says that organisations and companies should have a dialogue with the Swedish Transport Agency on how to resolve the situation. Mr President, I would like to Should the UN Secretary-General call the Swedish Transport Agency and ask how to resolve the situation? Does the Minister of Infrastructure know what answer the Swedish Transport Agency will then give? It would be interesting to take part. Let me give you a small example. A UN employee specialised in conflict and post-conflict countries – it has emerged that the government prioritises this in its budget bill presented tomorrow – has been working on such issues and is commuting today between Somalia and Kenya. As a UN employee, this person cannot obtain a driving licence in Somalia. He lives in Kenya but doesn't have a residence and work permit in Kenya and can't take a driver's license there. He ends up, as it were, between the chairs and will not be able to complete the mission. He is not 185 days in Sweden because he is doing UN service. How does the Minister for Infrastructure solve such problems? That is what my question was about. Mr President, I would like to I also note that the Minister for Infrastructure has taken note of Parliament's decisions. However, with regard to Parliament's decision, there was also a section on p. 16 of the report which I hope the Minister will read carefully: The committee is also aware that the amendment of the law may pose problems for e.g. foreign Swedes who work for the UN or Swedish aid organisations in different countries and are dependent on driving licences. Among other things, a home-country driving licence may be a requirement for services within e.g. UN or aid organisations. The committee notes that it would be unfortunate if staff in such organisations were to suffer from this change in the rules. The committee therefore assumes that this is an issue that will be dealt with. .....................................................
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-259	Mr President, I would like to I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the questions. It is undeniably true that the Alliance Government had been able to anticipate these problems from the outset when it adopted the Third Driving Licence Directive – there were comments from the consultation bodies at the time – but they did not. However, we eventually had to go through the third driving licence directive here in Parliament, and it was adopted unanimously. I did not see any reservation from any party in this context. It is clear that you must then assume that it will be implemented, and then you must also ensure that you have the right information about how many people may be affected. It is not 30 000 people, but some 3 000 people are estimated to be affected by this. It is a question of a person being able to be seconded for a period of ten years in that situation. It is a relatively high threshold, admittedly. By planning, the responsible authorities assess that the possible concerns can be solved by renewing their driving licence near the point of departure. Then, as I said, what will be valid for more than ten years, and such long periods of posting are not common. The important thing to remember in this context is that the European Commission has also criticised Sweden about how we interpreted the previous regulatory framework. It is therefore important that we now implement this properly. Of course, it is up to the authorities to follow developments but also to inform, and of course they do so – on social media, on their website and in other ways by being accessible to those who turn to the authority and providing the right information on how to avoid inconvenience. I do not think there is any conflict of principle between Kerstin Lundgren, Margot Wallström or Tomas Eneroth on this issue; we are all concerned that this is something we should find a smooth solution to. But I also believe that Kerstin Lundgren understands that it is in Sweden's interest now to ensure that we implement the directive correctly. At present, the responsible authorities say, there is no indication that there would be a risk of major disruption. As a minister, I will of course always ensure that I can act in the event of major disruptions. I am convinced that Kerstin Lundgren can help me and participate in this work in that case.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-264	Mr President, I would like to It's always an exciting definition question what a big disturbance is, and the answer is sliding. I did not hear an answer to my question to what extent the Minister for Foreign Affairs had contacted the Minister for Infrastructure on this matter, Mr President. It is basically about how we in Sweden should be able to prioritise and strengthen the opportunities for Swedes to do, for example, UN service – international service. There, driving licences are many times a requirement. Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Infrastructure discussed or discussed the issue? It is always exciting these days to hear what is being discussed in the Government Office, perhaps over a cup of coffee, so I would like to hear an answer to that question. The second question is what response the Swedish Transport Agency will give to Guterres if he calls back and asks how this will be handled so that those who are now making efforts in Somalia, for example, can continue to work for the UN and resolve the post-conflict situation in Somalia. What response does the Government expect the Swedish Transport Agency to give if Guterres, UN Secretary General, calls back?
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-267	Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely convinced that the Secretary-General of the United Nations and former High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr Guterres, is the one who calls the Swedish Transport Agency for information, and it is not my responsibility as Minister to tell you how the Transport Agency then informs the said Secretary-General. It is, however, an attractive idea to follow such a conversation, undeniably. The important thing for me as a minister is to ensure that the Transport Agency in this situation provides relevant and correct information to those concerned. It has a mission to also make sure to inform people through social media, websites or other means so that people get information in good time. This is basically a question of planning. I'm a little surprised by the tone Kerstin Lundgren has. We have both been to the UN, together, and I have been deeply committed to Sweden being a strong international force and driving force in many parts of the world. Should there be a problem with the renewal of driving licences for those who have a long service and cannot plan to go home and renew their licence, I am convinced that we will be able to find a solution to it eventually. So far, however, I have not seen any signs that this would be a major concern. If it will be, I am convinced that Kerstin Lundgren will draw the attention of the government to it, but I also believe that the responsible authority will be keen to follow this. The important thing in this situation, as we now implement the EU directive that Parliament has unanimously supported, is that we find a system in which we both follow the guidelines that the EU has imposed on us and, at the same time, ensure that those concerned have good planning conditions. Nevertheless, with the existing timescales, it should be possible to reach the potential of 3 000 people who may be affected. This may well be the case, but I find it hard to believe that someone in this House would like us to deliberately make the possibility of renewal of driving licences more difficult. But let us work together to find as smooth solutions as possible, and let us take seriously Sweden's mission to implement the regulations the EU imposes on us. When it comes to cooperation and discussion within the government, it is undeniably the case that we are always in dialogue with each other, and all the proposals are, of course, jointly prepared.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-273	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Infrastructure have been in contact on this issue. That answer could well have been given when the question was asked, Mr President. This is actually a problem that Swedes who do not exist in Sweden for 185 days experience. They also find it difficult to get into that system at present. It may be close to the end of the driving licence, as it is a new system from this year. So there may be a transitional problem in this. That is also, of course, one reason why the Committee on Transport and Tourism made the comment it made and one reason why there was no reservation, namely that the committee was aware that this could cause problems. I'll leave that document to the Minister for Infrastructure so he can read. The committee also expected this issue to be dealt with in order to be resolved. Then it is not just a matter of informing what is decided, the Minister for Infrastructure, but it is a matter of paying attention to the need to think about how to find solutions. It is because today many people are out there in UN service and feel that they have got caught up. This is information that I have received and that I am happy to share with the Minister for Infrastructure.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-276	Mr President, I would like to I do not think we have any differences of opinion on this. If Kerstin Lundgren has information that people have concerns about this, I am happy to take part of it. I do not believe that there is any difference of opinion on the substance, but, on the other hand, I am – once again – anxious to implement this according to the guidelines that exist so that we comply with the common rules that exist within the European Union. I am also keen that the Swedish Transport Agency provides the right and adequate information so that people have the opportunity to plan their possession of driving licences and ensure that the driving licence is valid. If we can in this way make it easier for people who serve well internationally on behalf of Sweden, it is a good effort, because it is important that we have Swedes who work for Sweden in the world.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-278	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström has asked me whether I and the government will ensure that the public service obligations on the Torsby – Hagfors – Arlanda route do not disappear. It is important for people to have good access to interregional public transport throughout the country. EU law allows the competent authorities of the Member States to impose public service obligations under certain conditions and to procure services in the absence of the conditions for the commercial operation of the route. In Sweden, the Finnish Transport Administration decides on public service obligations. According to its instructions, the Finnish Transport Agency has the task of concluding and being responsible for the state's agreement on transport policy-driven interregional public transport, including air traffic. I and the Government believe that the task of analysing which interregional public transport service should be subject to public service obligations in order to reduce accessibility gaps remains with the Finnish Transport Agency.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-281	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, for your answer. I also thank you for the opportunity to debate this important issue in this House. The intervention was set against the background of what has happened in the past with regard to this route. It starts in Torsby, goes down in Hagfors and then on to Arlanda. Over the years, there has been uncertainty here. The previous government, in an alliance context, made a clear position by entering in the regulatory letter that this should be subject to public service obligations. The procurement has since been extended, and next year another round will follow. Locally in northern Värmland there is uncertainty about what it will be like in the future. This issue is one of the top priorities on the agenda, especially among leading municipal politicians. It is about working for infrastructure, communications and an opportunity for both continued investment and development in existing entrepreneurship. This is about prominent companies. But it also wants to be able to develop more activities in these areas and get new companies in place. People want to be able to commute or move smoothly between Torsby, Hagfors and the Stockholm area. The new Minister for Infrastructure now has an opportunity to seize the opportunity to give a signal for further work about the importance of this traffic being able to continue. The arrangement would continue to work to increase travel. That's what you've done. The statistics look very promising. There are many signs that this line is important and in demand. The conditions for local and regional growth are much about infrastructure and how the Swedish Transport Administration will evaluate different pieces. Great values stand and weigh. It is important to develop not only in the urban areas of Torsby and Hagfors, but also in other towns and rural areas. This concerns the two largest municipalities in Värmland out of a total of 16 municipalities. We know that this is extremely important. Long-term and greater clarity are issues of trust. With an interest in stable traffic and increasing the volume of this traffic, the signals are important. I mentioned earlier that there has been an increase, namely 25%, compared with the previous year. The number of passengers per trip has so far increased by 39% this year, from 5.6 passengers per departure to 8.1. The statistics are from June this year. Often you have to be out in good time to book this. If this traffic were no longer to be operated, you would be referred down to Karlstad to be able to proceed from there to Stockholm. Earlier we heard a debate about the traffic between Arlanda and Mora. It was talked about the experience of taking the train today from Dalarna and here and how it was delayed. In the same way it was for me when I travelled this morning via Karlstad to Stockholm. Traffic was delayed by an hour. If you go down from Sysslebäck, the journey will be very long when you come here.
i-7gk5HTcrEojwZtRMwYpinN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for the answer to Daniel Bäckström's interpellation! I believe that all of us in this House are fundamentally united by the idea that it is good for Sweden to stick together. We may have different thoughts about how this goal is to be achieved, but basically it is the cohesion of Sweden that gives us our strength. I believe that, regardless of whether you come from a place of use, from a country or from a suburb, cohesion is very central. What holds Sweden together in a physical sense is the infrastructure. It should be possible to live, live and travel throughout the country. In my own county of Värmland, which Daniel Bäckström also comes from, the basic industry and the forest industry play a crucial role in regional development. As the Minister for Infrastructure knows, the county is highly export-dependent, and we have a highly internationalized business community that is daily in contact with and connected with our surrounding world. The basic industry and the forest industry also form a large part of Sweden's trade balance. It forms the basis of our common welfare. The business community's recurring demand when I have contact with them in Värmland is good and simple communications. It should be easy to get out into the world, but it should also be easy to come home again. Otherwise, it does not work to run export-dependent companies in forest areas. I myself live in Arvika, along the string Stockholm– Oslo. I usually travel by train to Stockholm, but I know that other parts of the county would never have developed in the way they have if it were not for the flight. This is crucial for regional development in Värmland. The flight at the national level is a central part of the Swedish transport system. Sweden is a large and partly sparsely populated country with large distances in the forest areas. Air travel is also, to some extent, crucial for achieving the transport policy objective of achieving long-term sustainable and socio-economically efficient transport provision for citizens and businesses throughout the country. Just like Daniel Bäckström, there is a system in which the Swedish Transport Administration procures lines that cannot function on a purely commercial basis. I understand the Minister's answer; it is the Finnish Transport Administration that decides on public service obligations and it continues to be the Finnish Transport Administration that carries out the analysis that is linked to this. In a purely formal sense, this is quite right. However, I have two objections at principle. Firstly, of course, it is the government that is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the transport supply does not deteriorate for citizens and businesses. Secondly, it is the government that governs the authorities through various instructions, mandates and regulatory letters. As the Minister knows, and as has been the subject of discussion earlier today, the alliance government actually entered in the Transport Agency's regulatory letter that Hagfors and Torsby airports would be subject to public service obligations. We were also familiar with the increase in travel, which has increased by a quarter over the past year. It shows that this is an airport that is needed. If we did not go that way and there were no public service obligations for Torsby airport, we know that this would lead to a deterioration of the basic industry, thereby weakening Sweden's long-term competitiveness. It would also be more difficult to create growing companies operating in an international market. I would therefore like to conclude by asking the Minister for Infrastructure whether the current government is willing to be as effective as the alliance government was in fact when it entered in the Transport Agency's regulatory letter that the public service obligations for Torsby and Hagfors should remain.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pål Jonson and Daniel Bäckström! I think it is excellent when several members of Parliament are committed to the whole country living and realise that the market cannot do everything without society sometimes having to go in as an actor and support through operating aid or procurement so that we have a functioning infrastructure throughout the country. I belong to a government that is making extensive efforts to link the country after years of growing gaps and years of underinvestment. I am very pleased that, not least in the area of infrastructure, we now have SEK 100 billion more to relate to with regard to the forthcoming plan of measures to be taken within the infrastructure. I feel the same strong commitment and have always done so during my political life so that not least the export industry should have good conditions wherever it is. As a small-timer, I am well acquainted with both communication difficulties and other things in order to get out into the world's markets. That is why, of course, this is important. At the same time, this, as before, is written on the basis that the Swedish Transport Administration is on the verge of a doubt and is in doubt. Now we have the order that I, as a minister, first have to wait for what decisions the Finnish Transport Administration may make, and then I act. This is how previous governments, regardless of party colours, have acted. You wait for a decision first. Then you have to be prepared if you then choose to act. I am well acquainted with the situation for both Hagfors and Torsby. What I think is important to bear in mind in this discussion is that we need to find a order in the future where we see long-term conditions for regional airports. It concerns both operating aid and the EU regulations that have sometimes been discussed and argued about how to interpret in terms of aid for air traffic. As a step in this process and on the basis of the aviation strategy decided by this government, since we see that aviation is of important national and international importance in Sweden, we are now reviewing the regulations governing operating aid to regional airports. This will give regional airports better conditions for their operations. As we have announced in the aviation strategy, we will also review Swedish airports on the basis of transport policy objectives. Of course, it is also to look at how the Finnish Transport Administration follows and has followed the rules that exist and whether there is a need to make changes, clarifications or improvements. The important thing for me is to know that we have financial conditions to be able to make important investments in the future, and we have, because we have turned Sweden's development around. We now have strong surpluses in central government finances, unlike in the previous parliamentary term. We can invest in reforms, and we can spend over SEK 100 billion more in a national action plan for investment in infrastructure. It will improve the conditions for managing the transition needed for climate policy reasons, but of course also to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. This also applies to the strong companies that are currently growing well on the world markets and that are located in beautiful Värmland.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-306	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure addresses the conditions in Sweden in general. I think it is very wise to reflect on how things can differ between different areas, including the availability of efficient public transport, something to which you will be referred if the flight is no longer going. The Minister also mentions climate and climate effects based on future ambitions. Active traders and local entrepreneurs in the municipality of Torsby are highly dependent on accessibility and the ability to quickly get to and from different international contact areas. This may involve partnership or management at different levels and in different markets. When asked, they answer that they will take the car instead. They will not use public communication. It is a clear message that I encounter when I am out meeting these entrepreneurs: It is the car that is the alternative to the flight when travelling from Torsby Central City via Hagfors to Stockholm. Torsby municipality is very long and extends far north from Torsby central town, which is located in the southern part, about 80 miles from Karlstad. 60 per cent of the municipality's population lives north of the urban area. Sysslebäck, which is 80 km up the river Klarälven – an hour's journey – is the next large urban area in the municipality. It is extremely important to consider Trafikverket's analysis, which takes its starting point in the calculations from the central locations, in this case southern Torsby. That is the guiding principle for analysing the importance of aviation. But we need to see the whole municipality – see where businesses and residents are and how they are affected. In practice, what time at night do you need to get up to get here via Arlanda one morning? That time will be affected– it will be earlier and earlier depending on the options. The Finnish Transport Agency has presented a proposal for continued maintenance of accessibility to and from Torsby and Hagfors municipalities if the route is closed. The alternative means bus or taxi from the municipality capitals Torsby and Hagfors to Karlstad Airport or Karlstad Central Station. That's what's going to stand against this. Pål addresses the importance of extremely important companies. Hagfors municipality, according to the municipal management of Hagfors and the Rural Committee, is considered the seventh most vulnerable in Sweden. It is extremely dependent on Uddeholm, which has 800 employees. Uddeholm is a global and world-leading company with an enormous number of international contacts. Some fifty researchers are present locally in Hagfors and work globally. Not having a route available to get further out into the world would hit this company extremely hard. A municipality with the vulnerability analysis must have long-term conditions and also information about how Sweden's management thinks. A four-year period is extremely short in terms of industrial policy. This is about jobs. It is about continuing efforts and signals to continue to invest in these areas in the future and also to establish new activities. Then I think it is even more important that we politicians signal what we see as important also in the instructions to our various authorities, in this case the Swedish Transport Administration. Geography is different in these two municipalities. Vulnerability is greater. These are areas that very much need growth.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-312	Madam President, I would like I respect the fact that, at this stage, the Minister for Infrastructure cannot anticipate the process currently taking place at the Finnish Transport Administration regarding the public service obligations for Torsby Airport. Nevertheless, I expect the Government and the Minister to take the necessary measures in the event that the public service obligations for Torsby airport will not last. I can understand if the Minister for Infrastructure may not listen to me, but I would really strongly appeal to him to listen to the business community of Värmland, which repeatedly underlines the importance of this route to our internationalised business. Finally, I would like to send you a couple of things that I think we should take note of and that Daniel Bäckström also took to heart. One is, of course, the positive development of travel. This is a positive trend. The second is that significant investments have been made in Torsby airport. In 2005, under an S-led government, nearly 85 million were invested. They now have a write-off period of 20 years. It would, of course, be a disaster if this airport could not continue to the extent with which it is operated today, both locally for business and regionally. Thank you for the debate, Minister for Infrastructure. The clear message is that the issue must be followed closely. If Trafikverket doesn't act, I expect the government to take action.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-315	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pål Jonson and Daniel Bäckström! As I mentioned earlier, I appreciate your strong commitment. Of course, I have also had close and good contact with my Värmland party friends as well as with municipal representatives and business representatives. Incidentally, I have previously visited Uddeholm, and I am naturally impressed by the activities there. I am saying this to make it clear that I see the conditions and the challenges. This is how it is in the whole country. Sweden is an export-dependent country. We live to a large extent on the goods and services we produce, and we manage to beat the world market with astonishment time and again. But the basic prerequisite for this is that we have good investment conditions: that we have good access to skilled labour, that we manage to be at the forefront in terms of technological development and climate change, and that we ensure that we have an infrastructure that in some sense compensates for the fact that we have an elongated country. This means that we must also be prepared and able to invest heavily in our infrastructure, perhaps more than other countries do. Again: That's why I'm very happy that there's 100 billion more in the infrastructure plan that we have in the future compared to before. It is a strong effort– we are a government that sees the need to make strong reinforcements. At the same time, I realize the trouble of living in four-year cycles. As politicians, we all have to live with doing so, but in the case of infrastructure, long-term planning conditions are important, both for the actors that exist and for the sectors that are about to decide on important investments. They want to know the conditions. That is one of the starting points for me now that I am going country and country around and talking about the action plan. I am therefore happy to find a broad consensus across block borders and into industry, climate organisations and regional and local representatives. It is good for Sweden if we can find a grant. Infrastructure is too important in that sense to become a political punching bag. Then there will certainly always be times when we have slightly different levels of ambition and different priorities. That's all part of the matter. But finding a common long-term handshake in what is important infrastructure investments for Sweden is good. As far as action plans are concerned, this is the proposal of the Finnish Transport Administration. That is why I carefully avoid speaking about individual objects. The same applies, of course, to the question of public service obligations. It is now the work that has to decide. But it will always be the case that a government should be prepared to make adjustments or act if necessary. My starting point is that we must close the gaps that have emerged in Sweden for a long time as a result of underinvestment and a lack of investment in infrastructure. I thank Pål Jonson for being generous enough to mention that it was a former S-government that chose to invest in the airport in Värmland. This in itself shows that there is broad support for the importance of making good infrastructure investments. I will return to the question of how things are in this case once the Finnish Transport Administration has made its decisions.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-321	Madam President, I would like It is a very interesting reflection from the Minister for Infrastructure on the importance of finding constructiveness and long-termness. When the municipality in this case accounted for half the investment, it has an ambition forward. The state should then fulfil its commitment in the long term on the basis of what was once agreed. It is not least about being able to continue to signal to the district and the areas that it is part of our infrastructure to get to and from both Torsby and Hagfors. There are many companies that exist and operate in the areas. I have mentioned Uddeholm. There are more people in Hagfors connected to this fine business. Not least in the wood industry, things happen. It is invested up in Sysslebäck in northern Torsby. Cluster activities and research and test beds in advanced technology are being built to see the opportunities ahead and to take advantage of the forest as a possible future industry to develop further. Then we need working connections. Now that the Minister of Infrastructure is going to travel around the country and country, I suggest that he uses the train one way, takes the train via Karlstad and then either chooses a car or Värmlandstrafik and goes all the way up past Höljes to northern Torsby and see how long it takes and if it is practically possible over a day to also return. Then you can use the flight on the way back. It is about using the practical conditions that apply to people if, alternatively, there is no flight. We politicians also need to experience this and experience it. It is the reality that applies to Torsby and Hagfors and also many other municipalities. Thank you very much for this debate. I look forward to the future.
i-6a5dac1db9226e8d-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Bäckström! We will certainly have reason to discuss this on several occasions in the future. My responsibility, which in that sense is different from that of Daniel Bäckström and Pål Jonson, is that I have to look after the interests of the whole country and not just Värmlands. This means that all the balances that we will have to make must be based on the interests of Sweden as a whole to strengthen our competitiveness, clear climate change and link the country together. Guiding is a Swedish aviation strategy, and it is good that you also know it, where we carefully point out how we structurally look at the importance of aviation in the future. It is important that we develop such strategies. It is this government's way of providing long-term planning conditions for operators. Similarly, we have developed a cycling strategy and a maritime strategy. We are now working intensively to develop a freight strategy. It can not least be incredibly important for a member of the Swedish parliament to follow that discussion. It is about how we should have working goods transport in the country. It is important for an export-dependent country like Sweden to cope with it in the best way and based on the climate challenges we have. Thank you for a good discussion!
