i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-4	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me if I intend in any way to review how consistent the Swedish Armed Forces' handling of security issues for participants and relatives is and how communication is handled when questions arise. It is the Swedish Armed Forces who have the knowledge and task to handle issues related to security for Swedish personnel and how these issues are handled in relation to the international efforts in which Sweden participates. The Swedish Armed Forces are responsible for continuously analysing and assessing the security situation in the area of operation as well as the risks that Swedish participation in international operations abroad entails for in-depth personnel. The Government assumes that the Swedish Armed Forces' recommendations for participating staff in foreign service, but also for their relatives at home in Sweden, are correct and well balanced. The government also has no reason to question the Swedish Armed Forces' handling of emerging security issues at the moment.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. So the background to my question was that a relative of a soldier in Mali had marveled at two things. It was both that she as a relative was asked to be very careful about information about the soldier's mission, and how the Swedish Armed Forces eventually handle contacts with relatives. As for the first, this family member has, for example, received written information from the head of security about this: a change in the threat picture in Sweden. This means, for us as soldiers and for you as relatives, that we must all think too little more than before. Not everyone is in favour of Sweden's and the UN's efforts in Mali. Avoid talking about the upcoming mission and your changed situation on Facebook, Twitter and the like. In addition, relatives are encouraged not to mention unnecessarily in kindergartens, schools, etc. details of the time and duration of the soldier's service and the country in question. At the same time, relatives are encouraged to follow the Mali blog, which frequently sprinkles photos of participants. These are photos of, for example, the type I show here. This particular photo depicts field artists. There are similar photos of participating soldiers. The drop for the relatives was however when the Swedish Armed Forces sent a fully open postcard and wished happy midsummer with a nice greeting to follow Malibloggen. There was a substantial text on the back that tells us what it is about. She felt that there was quite a difference between the calls for discretion and such a procedure. She therefore wrote to the Swedish Armed Forces in August 2015 and asked questions about this. To date, the letter has not been answered. I have the letter with me here if the Secretary of Defense wants to take note of it. In the interpellation response, however, the Minister assumes that the Swedish Armed Forces' recommendations are correct and well balanced. Does it really seem that way? He also believes that the government currently has no reason to question the Swedish Armed Forces' handling of emerging security issues. Really? Does the Minister not see any discrepancy between the calls to the relatives and everything from Maliblog to open postcards? I had two questions. As far as communication is concerned, or rather the lack of communication, the Minister for Defence has nothing to say in his response. So I do not get an answer to the specific question of communication. If I were in the ironic direction, which Gud forbid, I would see a pattern here. Does the Minister really think it is okay that in over a year and a half not to be able to produce answers to questions from a worried relative to a soldier who, on behalf of Sweden, ultimately risks his life?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-14	Mr President, I would like to In this case, it is the authority that is responsible for giving answers to relatives in the case of letters and when questions have been asked. As a minister, I have no knowledge of the letter harvest within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces and therefore cannot comment on this. I believe that it is the responsibility of the authority to clarify these kinds of issues. When it comes to how to look at publishing and communication, the unit in Mali has its own security function that makes the assessment of which personnel can be on the picture, with or without name. All external communication via, for example, Malibloggen is reviewed by security personnel prior to publication. Setting up with a name or picture is voluntary, and the staff is always asked before publishing. There are staff in the unit who are particularly worthy of protection and who do not participate in pictures. Similarly, the unit has special spokespersons who should be able to act as faces outwards. It is the unit that determines which staff belong to these categories. I understand that the Mali blog is an appreciated forum for relatives, both present and former and future. Just look at the comments written in connection with the blog! This also gives the public an opportunity to follow our Swedish soldiers in their work and everyday life in areas of intervention. It is an authority's responsibility and an authority's issue to manage the communication that takes place within the framework of an international effort. It is not the government that has this responsibility. As a minister, I am also prevented from entering and directing the activities of the Armed Forces in various ways, and it is well known that this is the case.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-18	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Minister should not read all the letters that come to the Swedish Armed Forces and check that they are answered. But I am showing you here with a concrete example of the disregard that I feel this is. As I said, this is about a relative of a Swedish soldier who is risking his life on behalf of the Swedish government and parliament. I think that is rather flagrant, and it should not be defended. Then you have to say: This is not how it should be! Then the Swedish Armed Forces will take the message to heart. As far as Malibloggen is concerned, one might object that with today's technology there are many other ways to communicate with relatives than on a blog that is open to everyone. But I guess the Armed Forces will have to do that. What I think is more flagrant is that the Swedish Armed Forces, on the one hand, give instructions to the relatives to be rather careful with their information on their own Facebook and Twitter, in schools and other authorities and anything about the mission, where you are, when you are there and so on. On the other hand, the Swedish Armed Forces send an open postcard with pictures of Swedish soldiers and wish happy midsummer and tips on entering Malibloggen. It just doesn't make sense, and I think the Minister could say that this should be reviewed by the Swedish Armed Forces. I do not think that this would be seen as a major ministerial rule on this issue. I think this is serious, because we all know that there is reason for what I quoted from the head of security: the threat picture in Sweden has changed. Soldiers, relatives and everyone has to think about it. This must include the Armed Forces as well.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-23	Mr President, I would like to I have explained how the government sees the situation, who has the responsibility and what the Swedish Armed Forces do in different contexts when assessing the security functions for publications. I have also explained the Mali blog and its function. When it comes to the letter in question, it is up to the Swedish Armed Forces to reply. The letter has now been made clear in the debate. It may well be a reason for those responsible to check the possibility of replying to the letter. The government has its responsibilities. The Armed Forces have their responsibilities. I cannot go into ministerial government on these kinds of issues. This is what I have to say in this debate. For my part, I thank you for the debate and wish you a pleasant day.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-27	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by wishing the Minister the same. After all, it's a beautiful spring day. I'm not entirely happy, but it can do the same. I'm just wondering if all the relatives are happy. Of course, the Minister should not engage in ministerial rule. It only leads to unpleasantness in the KU. On the other hand, when you judge things, you can express yourself like that or so. I do not see that there was any criticism directly, but a condition that everything is handled in a good and correct way. I do not think that the examples I have given directly speak in favour of this, neither of how confidentiality is kept from the Swedish Armed Forces, which itself calls on relatives to be careful, nor of communication. If a relative of a soldier writes a letter dated August 24, 2015, the relative should have received an answer to date in the spring 2017. Maybe it will.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-29	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Andersson, for the interpellation! Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to allow the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala and the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County to continue its important activities. The work to end men's violence against women is a priority of the government. A ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women was recently adopted (p. 2016/ 17:10). In the same letter, the Government stated that it intends to establish a gender equality authority with the task of contributing to strategic, coherent and sustainable governance and effective implementation of gender equality policies. The Authority shall be responsible for monitoring, analysing, coordinating and supporting gender equality policy objectives, not least with regard to the interim objective of ending male violence against women. The reason for setting up a gender equality authority is that several evaluations have consistently underlined the need for a firm and permanent structure at national level in order for the government to ensure that gender equality policy priorities are implemented. It is important to bring together tasks that are currently carried out by different authorities so that the work on gender equality can be carried out more comprehensively and effectively. To this end, certain tasks and tasks currently being carried out by various authorities will be transferred to the Authority. An organisation committee is tasked with preparing and implementing the establishment of the agency in 2017. 2016:108). Among other things, the task is to deal with all issues relating to the transfer of tasks in close cooperation with the relevant authorities. An important starting point for the transfer is that knowledge and experience are taken into account and that the work is carried out without interruption. From Uppsala University's mission on men's violence against women, the knowledge-sharing part of the assignment will primarily be transferred to the gender equality authority. Uppsala University will continue to be responsible for the task of collaborating with Uppsala University Hospital in matters related to clinical activities and related research and to analyse the need for new research in the field. It is also part of the investigator's mission to consider and propose whether, and if so, when, the responsibility for the national support telephone operated by Uppsala University can be transferred to the authority. As stated in the Employment Committee's report 2016/ 17:AU5, the Government considers that the activities developed within the national competence team against honour-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County should continue until the end of 2020. Towards the end of this period of mission, an evaluation should be carried out of the organisation of state action against honour-related violence and repression. In the light of the evaluation, a decision should be taken on the form in which the activities should be carried out in the future. Like Erik Andersson, I am extremely concerned that there will be no loss of competence or interruption in the important work against men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression, in connection with the transfer of the assignment to the new authority. I will therefore follow closely the work of the Organising Committee to make sure that this does not happen.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-34	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The government calls itself feminist, while acting in the opposite direction for better equality. I hope that in his continued oral answers, the Minister for Gender Equality will not blame the eight years of Moderates in the Alliance or how we acted a hundred years ago. We voted in favour of universal and equal suffrage – I can guarantee that we did. We have discussed this issue earlier in a report. But there have been some changes since then. There has been a change in the comitology directive. I don't want to be a bitch about this, but sometimes it's good to be a pain in the ass. I am really worried about what will happen to the skills that exist in Stockholm, Uppsala and Östergötland. It is the authorities that are currently working on this issue. The new focus on gender equality policy risks breaking up well-functioning activities. The National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala at Uppsala University, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County and the National Board of Health and Welfare in Stockholm have national competence and coordination assignments concerning men's violence against women. All these organisations are now facing an uncertain future because of the government's plans. A new authority must be filled with tasks and content. Then there is a great risk that the competence, which usually consists of people, will not move to Gothenburg where the new authority will be located. In the case of Östergötland, the government has co-traded with the Liberals that the business should remain in place until 2020 and then be evaluated. I wonder how you think there. In the new amended committee directives, the Government states that according to the Riksdag, the gender equality authority should focus specifically on overall national knowledge development and strategic cross-cutting issues so that the agency's activities and the mission carried out by the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County can complement each other. Mr President, I would like to Is it not true that the County Administrative Board in Östergötland is already working on horizontal issues? If so, will it be possible to work alongside these issues until such time as the activities are evaluated? Has the government already decided the issue and for some inscrutable reason wants to bring the Liberals along by evaluating the activities in Östergötland by 2020? The original directive stated that the main conclusion of the gender equality inquiry was that a firm and permanent structure is needed at national level. We are in full agreement on that; that is what it said. However, it is not necessary to ensure the fixed and structural level by establishing a new equality authority in Gothenburg. The Equality Unit at the Government Office could just as well have this permanent structure. Has this issue been discussed at all in the government? Or is placard policy more important by setting up a new equality authority than by looking at where it is most useful? Uppsala University has a nationwide mission today – a comprehensive perspective – and will disseminate evidence-based knowledge and information about men's violence against women. Parts of this knowledge will be transferred to the new gender equality authority. However, the important question of the support phone has still not been answered. What about it? If it is transferred to an authority, what about the confidentiality rules? This is in view of the fact that it is now under medical care.
i-PhBLDwhZbHxvgtDUoN6bge	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Madam Minister. Erik Andersson has created a very important interpellation, which is about how we can increase the pace of gender equality work. I think the government's response is unclear. I think the government's response signals a risk of losing momentum. The Government itself says in its reply to Erik Andersson that it hopes that it will not lose competence and hopes that there will be no interruption of operations. In fact, Mr President, I think that we can see in the media on a daily basis why the government must take this issue even more seriously. I have not heard many – besides possibly the government – who have said that new authorities in Sweden are the solution to problems. It is of course the case that those who have the competence to work with the issues today should be allowed to work with them in peace and quiet and make their work even more efficient. I think that Erik Andersson highlights precisely why a loss of tempo is so serious. I hope that the Minister will be able to develop his response to how not to lose momentum on this issue.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-47	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by looking at the gender equality problems that exist in Sweden. Sweden is one of the countries that has come the longest in the world when it comes to gender equality, but we also have gender equality problems. We can see that women earn significantly less than men– on average 3.6 million less than men during their working lives. If we look at the pensions, we'll see that it's even worse. Female pensioners have on average significantly less than male pensioners. I believe that women's pensions are about 67% of men's pensions. When it comes to violence, the home is the most dangerous place for a woman today. It's really terrible; that's where the security should be, but that's also where the risk is greatest to be subjected to violence from close relatives. In working life, men also have tough working conditions, but women get sick leave to a greater extent than men. Much is work related, i.e. related to health and safety problems. Women also often have a dual responsibility, since they are both working and have the main responsibility for home and children. We can see in the area by area that we have these structural equality problems. If you really take those problems seriously and want to do something about them, I think it's natural that you have an authority that gathers everything under one roof, not that you shoot a little bit here and a little bit there. This does not mean that the activities carried out today by Uppsala University and the County Administrative Board Östergötland are in any way unimportant. On the contrary, it is an incredibly important and good job, and it should be taken care of. Åsa Regnér has also responded very well that the assignment for Östergötland County Administrative Board will continue until 2020, and then you will have to evaluate and see how to proceed. We should certainly not throw that work away – on the contrary. Research at Uppsala University also continues. When it comes to the dissemination of knowledge, it is natural for the authority to take care of it. The support phone will have to investigate how to proceed with. It is therefore not at all a question of discarding skills, but of strengthening skills in more areas. We need the whole spectrum. The agency becomes an engine in the gender equality work, where you can help municipalities and county councils and ensure that the gender equality work is carried out everywhere in the country. It is also important that there should not be one-off measures, but that there should be continuous work. It will also permeate all policy areas. It is easy to forget equality there, and then I think an authority is very important. After all, this authority will have enormous competence. We can already see that the pressure to work there is very high. There are a lot of people who want to work there, and it is no problem that it is located in Gothenburg. I believe that wherever an authority of this kind had been put, it would of course have been people who wanted it to be somewhere else. However, it has not prevented us from making decisions before, and it is usually good in the end. You can already see that it is not a problem to get staff, as you have sometimes seen in other authorities where you have had start-up problems. It is clear that some start-up problems are probably always, but you still have to dare to start somewhere. I think it is important that we do not land solely in discussions about everything that will go wrong. Instead, let us see the positive thing that we now finally have a gender equality authority and the huge positive effects that I am sure it will have in the future. We have a feminist government. Of course, we should also have a gender equality authority that both collects and spreads the expertise and pushes on.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-61	Mr President, I would like to How nice to have a real debate here! I also find it fun that both men and women participate. All right, Erik Andersson, we're not talking about voting rights. But I do believe that our parties have different attitudes to how to move forward in gender equality policy, and my and my party's firm view is that political decisions must be taken that govern gender equality and have a debate about it. Quite rhetorical – I know you don't like it, Erik Andersson, but now you have time to answer – I would like to ask: how did you stand up to abortion law when it came to it? How did you stand up to special taxation in this regard? How did you stand up to the Sex Purchase Act? These are rhetorical questions, because you were against it. It makes me a little suspicious that you are not making any other suggestions than that we should keep it as it is. Then it happens that I personally have left your particular party to elect the Social Democrats. It was over 30 years ago, so we can also leave that behind. As far as these important issues are concerned, this is simply the case. Lars Beckman asks who said this would be better. Among other things, reports that your own government ordered. They clearly said that we need to do something more professional in the field of gender equality when it comes to governing equality policy. Your own study on gender equality policy said that it is not really good enough to invest a lot of money – it was good to do so – but then content itself with the fact that the effect on gender equality policy levels is in principle absent. That's not good enough. That is what we are talking about, and then we propose a gender equality authority as a way of getting to it. That's what we're doing now. In fact, the Swedish National Audit Office, which looked at the previous government's gender equality policy, came to about the same conclusion. It's serious stuff we're talking about. It is, of course, about violence against women or honour-related violence, and the violence did not go down despite the efforts, which was thought to be due, among other things, to fragmented efforts that are difficult to follow up. This is what we want to do something about, and just as Hillevi Larsson says, there is plenty of evidence that you need to work in this way. We could in itself make everything organized within the Government Office. We could take individual decisions on asylum or anything in the Government Office. But we have departed from such a system. We have authorities in charge of the operations. We have a different administrative model in Sweden, and as far as I know, gender equality policy is the only major policy area where we have no authority to implement that particular policy. It suffers from equality policy in terms of results in this area, and I want to do something about it. I'm impatient. With regard to the negotiation with the Liberals, I am pleased with it. I think this is an example of cooperation – we are open to cooperation – where the result was better than the two initial values. I think it is reasonable to have an activity where you still have a job that is close to authority and everyday, where you answer questions and give important advice. But there is currently no mission that involves, for example, keeping track of international research, following this issue strategically in a different way or keeping track of the activities related to honor-related violence in a more strategic and governing way. I think it's good that we're doing both of these things for a while. Unfortunately, we need to work much more intensively with honor-related violence, and so will we. The support phone is within the framework of the government inquiry.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-74	Mr President, I would like to We'll end up in history anyway. My starting point is what applies here and now: what do the parties think today? There is no doubt: the Moderates stand for freedom for all, both men and women. All people have the same chance to develop in Sweden; that is our foundation. We also have such a system. But unfortunately – and now we end up in some kind of public policy debate – it does not apply to everyone in Sweden. We could see on the news yesterday that women are being harassed in our suburbs and that there is a division so that they are not allowed to sit next to boys in the bus. This is a major problem, and I see it as the major challenge in terms of equality. The Social Democrats should have all the credit for trying to quota women into the boards of stock exchange companies, but this applies only to a few women. Instead, put the gunpowder on the women who are oppressed, cannot marry whomever they want, cannot play with whom they want and cannot become whom they want! This is where we have the major gender equality problems in Sweden, and I do not believe that an equality authority can do anything about it. It is about completely different bets, and that is where we have to put the power. Otherwise we will have a shared society, and it is not a good society. In Sweden, everyone should be able to be exactly what they want. On this point, we are actually much better than many other countries, because we have paid education and decent welfare that everyone can take part in and become just what they want. I am almost annoyed that the Social Democrats are trying to focus on a gender equality authority when, in fact, one could have the fixed structure that is being called for precisely at the Government Office. That would have been much better. At that time, the authorities in Östergötland and Uppsala and also in Stockholm, although the question I have asked today does not apply to Stockholm, and also to the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare. This could have been collected at the Gender Equality Unit of the Government Office, and it would have been much better than breaking up businesses and ensuring that people do not move to Gothenburg. There is nothing wrong with Gothenburg, Mr President, but if you do not live there from the beginning and have your life elsewhere, it is quite difficult to move there. How can the government guarantee that competence will not be lost in connection with this move? Does the government expect people from Stockholm, Uppsala and Östergötland to move with them? I don't think so. But the Parliament really has no say in this matter. The government has all the power in the world to establish a new authority without the parliament being able to ban it, but, as I said, it will not improve for the vulnerable women who need help now. I am thinking mainly of the national support line for women. As it is established today, in cooperation with the health services, we have a completely different confidentiality than if it were to lie with an authority. That is why it is so important that the support line should remain in Uppsala. Statskontoret's recent report shows that this activity has worked well, and the conclusion is that the current organisation and division of responsibilities should be maintained. Of course, there were overlaps between the authorities, but this is primarily due to the coordination of the Government Office, Mr President, and not to the authorities working for the good of women. There we have the cause of the problem, and I therefore believe that it would have been much better to coordinate this overall work at the Gender Equality Unit of the Government Office.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-83	Mr President, I would like to Hillevi Larsson gave a very good speech, which was about us having more equal conditions. She raised wages and many different issues where there is actually broad political agreement on the subject. What this interpellation debate is about is, of course, how to resolve this. If it were so simple, Mr President, that social problems could be solved by creating authorities, we would probably have solved most social problems in Sweden today. Few countries have as many authorities per capita as Sweden. The argument does not add up either, as we are now commending the activities that are working on these issues today. No one in this House has made any criticism of either Linköping, Uppsala or any of the existing activities. On the contrary, it is highlighted that the operation works well. It will then be even more difficult to understand, Mr President, why we should break down a well-functioning structure and a well-functioning existing activity in order to create concern by creating a new authority. What you risk, of course, is losing pace. Of course we will not be able to talk these problems away. We see on a daily basis, whether it is on the TV4s today, in South Sweden the other week or in other media, that action is needed here and now. I would like the Government to devote its time and effort to trying to solve the problems that exist today and not to create other problems by breaking up a well-functioning operation, creating new authorities, creating concern for the staff and, not least, as Erik Andersson has said in the debate today, losing competence if the skilled employees do not move to Gothenburg.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-86	Mr President, I would like to I think the debate we are having is a little strange. It is now portrayed as the only important thing is honor-related violence. I think it's really important, and so does the government. The government has strengthened the work against honour-related violence and has recently also released a new investigation that is about tightening up the rules to get to grips with this. So there is no conflict here. But gender equality is broader than that, isn't it? It is not only this that is a problem, although it is a major problem. I listed some problems earlier. One can see in the area by area of society that there is a structural inequality, which affects women very hard. It's a lot about money. We have many with poor incomes today: single parents with over-representation of single mothers, who have very poor finances, and single pensioners, even there with over-representation of women. We therefore have a women's poverty in Sweden today, which is about inequality. I think that is a very important problem to deal with, and that does not mean that you work less against honour-related violence; of course we should also do that. Violence against women and girls – physical, verbal, sexual and economic violence – naturally affects girls who are subjected to pressure of honour, but it also affects women and girls throughout society. We cannot make it so simple that we believe that the problem concerns only a small group, but we must take a much broader approach. When it comes to working environment, women's working conditions and women in leading positions, we can see that a lot has happened but there is still a lot to be done – in working life, in politics and in other areas. It is therefore very strange that it is now said that it is only about violence and honour-related violence. This authority will strengthen the work widely. Anyone who thinks these issues are important should be welcome.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-90	Mr President, I would like to It is quite interesting to hear how Moderates stand and rumble over structured government work. I think it's really important. I remember that during the 2006-2010 term, the government invested huge amounts of money in gender equality work and then had to return almost everything to Anders Borg because there was no plan. To spend money and not have any structured work is negative. There is also a point, I think, in what the Government now says about the history of the Moderates. You have never held the post of Minister for Equal Opportunities, and that says something about your work. It has been either liberals or social democrats who have been in that position. You introduced custody grants, something that really counteracts gender equality. One issue that both the interpellant and Lars Beckman have raised is structural oppression of honour, which we can see expressions of in some religious free schools. It's shown tonight, or if it was tomorrow, in the Cold Facts. My question to the employers of equality, to whom the interpeller claims to belong, is: Are you prepared to ban religious free schools that counteract equality? I'm ready to do it. Are you prepared to do that?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-95	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to my fellow debaters for their contributions! I would like to start by saying that this is because schoolgirls are sitting in the back of the bus and boys at the front and so on is insane. There's no other reason for that. All my adult life, I've been working on gender equality issues. It's not for girls to sit in the back of the bus. On the contrary, I have devoted myself to driving and, when I have been able, to take political decisions that lead to equality. What we do when it comes to honor-related violence is a long list. There's not enough time to talk about it. But when I have discussed these issues – which I have done very often, almost every week – with organisations that work with honor-related violence, after listening to them and because I think it makes sense, I have set up an investigation to review support for religious communities and mapped out the honor-related violence, because it has changed since the last survey was carried out in 2009. The Minister for Education has said both today and earlier that he will review the regulations regarding religious free schools. We've set up an investigation into child marriage. This investigation will also look at how honor could be the basis for punishment. We have also allocated more funds to the Socia l service this year, another 150 million. Local authorities are free to use these funds, for example, in areas where reinforcement is needed. This is perhaps a good area for that. We look at sex education: How can we ensure that you get messages and knowledge about gender equality, including honour-related violence, when it comes to sex education? We will also shortly be launching an education in gender equality through youth receptions specifically aimed at new arrivals and unaccompanied minors. There's a lot more that we do. I think this is an incredibly important issue, for the reasons I have explained. At the same time, I very much agree that gender equality work covers everyone. We do not have gender equality in Sweden, either for the majority population or for others. We still have pay differences. We have differences in power and influence. We have differences in unpaid work, and there is still violence against women carried out by men. My frustration – irritation, says Erik Andersson, but the fact is that I am quite inspired by this debate – is actually that the previous government spent over SEK 2 billion on gender equality work that did not have measurable effect. Why don't you have any comments on that? This makes me incredibly frustrated. Isn't that a problem for you? Is it your message to taxpayers that this does not matter? For me, it matters a lot. I want to see that it has an effect on people's lives. When I have received concrete proposals that better governance is needed, I take on that task.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-103	Mr President, I would like to If any party is protecting taxpayers' money, we are moderates. Moderates actually work with gender equality for real. Sweden's first female speaker was moderate. Sweden's first female Prime Minister will most likely also be moderate, and I will work for a female Prime Minister. Will Eva-Lena Jansson do that? No, I don't think so. I don't think so. It's about freedom, freedom, freedom and jobs, jobs, jobs. Historically, women become more equal and free when they start making their own money and no longer depend on their husband. What is the government doing on this issue? Yes, 40 percent of midwives are taxed so that working is not profitable. Higher taxes – less freedom. That's what I'm afraid it is. The Alliance government made a historic effort precisely in terms of gender equality. It was 2.6 billion that was invested. Of course, the results of these efforts could have been better coordinated. Much was in the form of projects, and the majority went to work against men's violence against women. Then there were other projects, such as ensuring that the urban environment becomes more secure and friendly so that you dare to stay outside. Every third woman doesn't feel safe walking outside. We can't have it like that. That is where we have to make bets. Everyone should have just the same right to be what they want. This is the starting point we will have in Sweden. Then sex should not have any significance for that particular part. Thank you for the debate.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-107	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson thanks the Minister before answering his questions. It'll be interesting to see what he's getting. I asked Erik Andersson a few questions, but he did not answer if he was prepared to ban religious free schools that counteract gender equality. Today we often talk about Muslim schools, but the problem also applies to the Plymouth brothers, the Word of Life and others. Now this becomes a rhetorical question, because Erik Andersson chose not to answer it when he had the chance. The new partner of the Moderates is the Swedish Democrats. They are against special taxation. We introduced special taxation as an excellent measure to ensure that women enter the labour market. One might wonder if the Moderates are now against special taxation, as they will cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. Your budgets, Erik Andersson, have benefited rich men and disadvantaged women with low income – so much for the equality of the Moderates! The actions of the Moderates show more than their words. The words are not enough to compare with the impact of the budget. I do not understand how the Moderates can be against structured gender equality work with an authority that controls and ensures that women and men have the same power and opportunities to shape their lives and society.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-112	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Erik Andersson and others who have taken part in the debate. It has been a fun and important interpellation debate. It is good to discuss these issues on the basis of the actual starting points. I very much agree that the gender equality project is a project of freedom. That's how it is. Women are most often disadvantaged by inequality, and it is mainly women and girls who benefit from an equal society. But it's just as much as me and boys who benefit from it! Unfortunately, since we are living in a world where the proposals that restrict women's and girls' rights right now are hailing, I tend to think that it certainly does not reflect a funny view of women, but it does not reflect a funny view of men either. Therefore, we need to do more and more both in Sweden and globally to counteract the forces that are active right now. In Sweden, it is good that employment is higher than ever and not least the fact that women with a foreign background are the best in the labour market right now, although the increase is from far too low levels. That is why the Employment Service is also tasked with speeding up the pace of this. Own income is the basis – I fully agree with you, Erik Andersson – to be able to create their own life. After all, you Moderates were involved in introducing and maintaining the custody allowance. You also removed the call for salary mapping every year, which could have signalled that more needs to be done in terms of pay differentials. We have different views on this. You think something will automatically happen that promotes equality. I believe that proposals must be made and the debate must be held. Sometimes it's hard, but then you have to put up with the pain. I look forward to a new debate!
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-117	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonson has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to improve the police's powers and resources to combat the multi-criminal gangs and how I see the conditions for deepening cooperation between the Swedish and Norwegian police. The government has reacted to too few crimes being cleared up, and several measures have been taken. Among other things, the Government has decided to strengthen cooperation between the Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority in the criminal investigation work. A number of prosecutors are to be assigned to the Police Authority for a certain period of time to assist in numerous criminal matters, and special investigation teams dealing with older cases are to be set up to relieve the burden of investigative activities. In order to streamline the work against, among other things, the type of crime mentioned by Pål Jonson, the Police Authority has decided on a national model for crime coordination. Through this, the Police Authority has greater opportunities to identify patterns in procedures and compare traces from crime scenes to find the leagues involved in serial crime. This work has been considerably facilitated by the fact that the Police Authority is now a coherent authority. As regards cooperation between the Swedish and Norwegian police forces, the government recently submitted a bill to the Riksdag on international police cooperation. The proposal proposes to extend police cooperation by implementing the provisions of the Prüm Council Decision on operational police cooperation. For example, the proposal allows joint patrolling and reconnaissance in border areas and is proposed to enter into force on 2 July this year. It can be applied in relation to Norway once they have acceded to the Council Decision. The proposal also states that the Government intends to explore the possibility of concluding new bilateral agreements that could supplement the Prüm Council Decision and allow even more general cooperation in border areas. I am convinced that the measures now being taken will contribute to a positive development of the Political Authority's ability to investigate mass crimes, work against serial crimes and cooperate with the Norwegian police.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-122	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. It is good that the government has reacted to the low level of crime resolution. More people have done so, given that it is the lowest level in 16 years. This is really needed. I have no objection to the proposals presented by Anders Ygeman, such as increased cooperation between the police and the Prosecutor's Office or a national model of crime coordination. However, I would like to start by saying that the problem of the multi-criminal gangs, which I raise in my interpellation, is both significant and growing, according to the police, at least in parts of western Sweden. I personally believe that more strong measures are needed to deal with such problems. It is precisely the multi-criminality that is ultimately due to the fact that these are leagues that make a living by smuggling alcohol, alcohol and cigarettes, and by breaking and entering, selling and stealing. They simply use the realm limit to their advantage to earn more money from their crime. Many of these leagues also choose to group themselves in the countryside, because they know that there is less risk of detection there. We have a situation today where very many people in rural areas feel a sense of concern about theft and burglary in a way that they would not have to do if the rule of law and law enforcement were to work better. A report from the LRF that came a few years ago highlights this problem. There it is pointed out that seven out of ten people in the countryside know one or more people in their vicinity as the last two years have been victims of crime and then mainly theft crimes. Another telling example is that three out of ten farmers had themselves been victims of crime in the last two years. It is also worth noting that over half of the farmers who had reported the crimes saw that contacting the police had little effect. I therefore believe that confidence in the police, at least among the guilty farmers, leaves something to be desired. Further examples underlining these problems of crime in rural areas are the fact that we have seen an almost 100% increase in the theft of construction machinery and tractors. The majority of these machines have not been recovered. They've actually been taken across the border, according to the police.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-129	Firstly, we have an emergency situation here and now in some outlying areas of the big cities. The Head of the National Police has been very clear that these are the areas that should receive more resources and be prioritised. This is certainly understandable, but at the same time we know that it will mean neither more resources nor more police in the case of those who are victims of crime in rural areas. I wonder if the Minister for Home Affairs has any more measures besides those he mentioned in his interpellation response to tell us about in the field of law enforcement in rural areas. Secondly, as I highlighted, the export of stolen goods is a major problem. For example, it is well known that the port of Karlshamn is a transit port where stolen goods are often carried out. Today, as it stands, it is not part of the Customs' mandate to stop exit on suspicion of the exit of stolen goods. I wonder whether the Minister is willing to review this and strengthen the Customs Authority's powers as a law enforcement authority so that you can actually intervene instead of letting suspect stolen goods through.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-131	Mr President, I would like to I share Pål Jonson's view that more needs to be done to deal with the theft gangs in the countryside. Nevertheless, I will mention two things that have been effective. The first is that the police are now an organization – that we don't have 2 1 piling up – so that we can follow this crime. It moves quickly between the towns and between the counties. It is therefore important to investigate the crimes in a context and prosecute individuals. The second is the licence requirement for ferries introduced by the government on 12 November last year, which, together with ID and border control, has led to a 20 per cent reduction in burglary in Sweden. One can think about how we can strengthen control over who comes to Sweden and leaves Sweden in the same way at other border crossings. Customs will start an experiment with cameras and automatic plate sensing so that we can get equivalent control on the vehicles crossing the Norwegian-Swedish border and the Swedish-Danish border as well as during ferry crossings. I think that will be an important tool. Then when it comes to excise offences and liquor buses, we have given a special mission to the police and the Swedish Tax Agency, which has been very successful. It is about good prosecution but also about proposals for legislative changes and sanctions so that we can more easily knock out the liquor buses. We have a joint work of authority against organised crime, which has also been successful. With regard to theft of fuel in the countryside, I think we need to make it easier to use camera surveillance of that type of fuel, because it will not be a police officer in every bush out in the woods watching fuel depots or fuel canisters. There, the camera is a better tool. I think, like Pål Jonson, we need a better exit control and a better check on GPS trackers. I don't want to close the door to bring it to the police. But I would like to emphasise that it is the responsibility of Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson in the government. If you want to discuss whether customs should be entitled to exit control, you have to put an interpellation to the Minister of Finance.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-138	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. I didn't interpret it as taking as if there were more resources or more police in the countryside. Let me give an example of this, Mr President. Recently, the police carried out a major effort against some of the multi-criminal gangs, which I was talking about, in northern Dalsland and western Värmland. This was done through a joint effort by the police in Västra Götaland and Region Bergslagen – this is a clear example of what the Minister for the Interior pointed out, namely the importance of coordination between police regions. But it was also done in collaboration with Norwegian police, and it was done in collaboration with Norwegian Tolletaten and the Swedish Customs Agency. It is an excellent example of cross-border cooperation between authorities and countries. In connection with this effort, a police inspector in Dalsland said to the media: We have almost no police officers left here. It's like we're living in a lawless country. In retrospect, the police have said, linked to this effort, that they have an ability to interfere with the multi-criminal gangs. But you don't have the ability and resources to fight them systematically. I believe that the police shortage in rural areas is an essential part of the problem. As the Minister for Home Affairs knows, there are different views in this House about how many more police officers Sweden needs. However, I do not believe that there is any doubt that increasing police density would create better possibilities for preventing, preventing and making more difficult the crime committed by the multi-criminal gangs. Since the very idea of the activities of these leagues is cross-border, the work of the police must also be so. That is why it is important to have enhanced police cooperation across the border, as the Minister for the Interior spoke about. I believe that this is a matter of one-off action against the gangs, but also of ongoing police cooperation. It could be reconnaissance, or it could be joint patrol. As the Minister for Home Affairs pointed out, the Riksdag is currently dealing with new possibilities for operational police cooperation with other states. It is a good thing that this bill has landed on Parliament's table, because it has been requested by many police officers, not least in border counties. In view of this, I would like to put two further questions to the Minister for Home Affairs. I note that it took six years from the completion of the investigation in 2011 until we received a bill this spring. This is a long time. I have every respect that international police cooperation and international legislative work take time, but are there any lessons that we can draw from that process so that similar cooperation does not have to take as long as it takes? I also have a question that is linked to one aspect of the proposal that is not dealt with very clearly in the letter, namely grouping. There are examples of joint police stations in Haparanda-Tornio, and there have also been thoughts of, for example, a joint police station for the local police area of Arvika and Hedmark's police district. I believe that grouping can promote, streamline and facilitate day-to-day police cooperation. I do not expect the Minister for Home Affairs to comment on where individual police stations should be located, but I would like to know if the government has any idea or objections to grouping.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-147	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonson asked two questions. The first was why it has taken so long and what can be learned from this. It is very simple – the previous government, where Moderates ruled the Ministry of Justice, chose not to prioritise this issue. No work had been done when we took over, and so it took this long before we could get a bill in place. Perhaps what lessons can be learned from this should be left unsaid. The second issue was intergrouping. I have absolutely nothing against this. Co-grouping can possibly remove a small part of the benefits in the collaboration – the main point of cooperating is the possibility of being able to support the other where it is at its weakest and where you yourself are at its strongest. But if there are operational and police-tactical reasons for co-grouping, I have no objection to co-grouping. It is for the police to decide this based on the operational activities. Pål Jonson is also raising the issue of more police officers. I share his view. We need more policemen than we have now, and we need to increase resources. At the same time, let us remember that we have more police employees than ever and that we are spending more money on the police than we have ever done. The most important issue will not be the additional percentage, but how we can get more out of the resources that we are already investing in the police. The government has taken a P rümrådet decision, which we have already discussed. I have personally been in Norway and opened the connection of the Swedish Rachel system with Norwegian Nødnet so that we can now communicate together with a radio system. We plan to make the corresponding connection with the Finnish site so that you can also communicate with a common radio system at the Finnish border. We shall proceed after the Council decision and negotiate enhanced cooperation, where further steps can be taken. All of this is done to strengthen the Nordic dimension and the cross-border dimension of police work. The goal is for us to make better use of the Swedish, Norwegian and Finnish police resources together and to become stronger together. That's where I think I and Pål Jonson are in complete agreement.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-153	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for this debate. As the Minister for Home Affairs says, since last autumn we have more policemen than ever. At the same time, we know that we do not have more police in relation to our population, and we also know that there is a great need for increased police density. Sweden has fewer police officers than many other average European countries. The basic problem, as the Minister for the Interior knows, is that we in Sweden today have significant problems with growing insecurity and lack of law and order. As we have discussed, this concerns both the city and the country. For example, the number of unsolved murders at the end of last year was higher than ever, as I understand it, and only one out of every seven multiple crimes was cleared up. I would therefore like to return to the shortcomings in the availability and visibility of the police in rural areas. These shortcomings are a real problem, both for people's perceived security and for the police's ability to combat and investigate crimes in these places. We Moderates have said that we want 25 000 police officers by 2025 and that we want to give priority to the police in the areas affected by crime and in sparsely populated areas. We also believe that the police need higher salaries. This is, of course, a form of recognition for the important work the police do every day, but perhaps more importantly, it is in order to recruit police officers. When I'm out talking at police stations around Värmland, where I come from, there are two things I usually bring with me. On the other hand, people say that there is a need for more police officers in external service and that they are worried about recruitment in the future. Many also share the message that it is extremely important to be able to read to the police remotely, not least in order to be able to change careers if, for example, you are 30 years old and have a family and children. I would therefore like to conclude with a letter to the Minister for Home Affairs on the importance of being able to read to the police remotely.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-160	Mr President, I would like to I note that Pål Jonson and I largely share a description of reality and a view of what needs to be done. However, I would like to remind you that, over the past year, the Moderates have had three different views on how many police officers are needed. You started a year ago with 20,000 police officers, then it was 22,000 and now the bid is 25,000 police officers. The question is whether so much has changed this year that it motivates this small auction. In essence, however, we agree. We need more cops, and we need more resources for the police, which we're also going to do. As far as recruitment to the police is concerned, I think it is about the working environment, working conditions and leadership within the police. The police have a journey to make in terms of the ability to motivate employees with a good working environment, good working conditions and good leadership. In the past, you may have been a cop from your 20's until you retired. Now the working life is much more mobile, which also affects the police. It must be easier to get into and out of the police profession. I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that Pål Jonson is on the verge of saying that, in order to recruit police officers in sparsely populated areas, we must have good distance training, which means that we can stay at home during part of the training. We must also be able to guarantee those we recruit in the countryside that they will come reasonably close to their place of residence once they are to serve so that you do not go to distance training in Värmland and then receive Piteå or Ystad as a place of service. Then we will not be able to recruit enough police officers, and we risk the police that we recruit dropping out. So we have things to deal with in terms of how the Swedish police work, but I still think that I and Pål Jonson share the same view on these issues as well.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-167	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me whether, in the light of the material he has presented, I am prepared, for example, to appoint an independent investigator to review the Swedish regulations on this issue in an international perspective, in order to adapt the Swedish rules to international practice or, for example, the regulations in Norway, which have among the world's lowest mortality rates in traffic. The government has high ambitions in the area of road safety and decided in autumn 2016 on a new start for the zero vision. Swedish road safety work is successful, and road traffic deaths have halved since the turn of the millennium. The zero vision has also attracted international interest. Traffic medicine requirements for drivers are based on the EU's third driving licence directive. Anyone who has a driving licence issued in the EU must comply with the minimum medical requirements laid down by the Directive. Member States are required to implement the requirements of national legislation and – as in many other areas – implementation may vary between Member States. In Sweden, the Swedish Transport Agency is the authority that lays down in detail the requirements for traffic medicine. The Swedish Transport Agency's regulations have been developed in consultation with the medical expertise in eye diseases and have translated the field of vision requirements of the EU Directive into well-defined limit values. As the limit values require measurement using devices used in ophthalmology, the system of limit values becomes transparent to all citizens and judicial authorities. The system is one way of avoiding arbitrary assessments, which would lead to wide variation and increased legal uncertainty. There is also an opportunity to get a simulator test at cost price. The system for this is still under development. The field of vision requirements that apply in Sweden are age-standardized, which means that patients in such a study are compared with a reference material of people of the same age without eye diseases. In order to be counted as a deviation from the field of vision requirements, the Swedish rules require a clear and large deviation from the normal for the age group. Several other Member States have transposed the text of the Directive into national law without specifying how it should be used. These countries have thus left the practice of health care to assess this on a case-by-case basis. There are also countries that, like Sweden, have clearly prescribed rules. However, the country's exemption practice may differ from Swedish practice in such cases. The Swedish requirements are based on a balance of risks from a road safety point of view and from an accessibility and mobility perspective for the individual citizen. My starting point is that the Finnish Transport Agency's traffic medical expertise continuously evaluates the medical driving licence requirements based on an international analysis that takes into account most factors, of which practices within the EU are one. I therefore do not intend at this stage to appoint a special investigator to review the Swedish Transport Agency's field of vision requirements in an international perspective.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-176	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the answer to my deeply serious interpellation about the hundreds or thousands of people with minor deficiencies in their field of vision who in Sweden are unjustly, I believe, deprived of their driving licences. I am, of course, deeply disappointed with the answer, which only reproduces what leading people at the Swedish Transport Agency think for several decades and which is Sweden's rules. I give a voice to so many desperate people who are suddenly deprived of their driving licences, even though they look good. They are forced to do tests in vision machines such as Humphrey, with their heads fixed, under tremendous stress and with the world's strictest demands. It is the only thing that determines whether or not they are allowed to keep the licence. They must not, as in all other countries, take extended driving tests. Sweden has prohibited this. Now that a driving simulator has finally been developed by VTI in Linköping, which is professional, the Swedish Transport Agency has made sure that the rules are very strict here too. You must not prepare for the test, you must only try once and you must pay 20 000 kroner, which makes this a class question, Madam Minister, which gives only those with the resources the opportunity to take the test. Nevertheless, already 500 people, I think, are queuing with the VTI, which says most of the dark numbers of the thousands who have been deprived of their driving licences. The first simulator tests show, however, that around half pass the tests, which shows how many have been deprived of their driving licences without due cause for decades. Chief physician Lars Englund at the Swedish Transport Agency is the one who with great influence symbolizes Sweden's unique strict and square rules in this area. He constantly argues that even minor imperfections in the field of vision mean that you drive on cyclists and pedestrians at crossing points. If large parts of the field of vision are gone, you should not have a driving licence, and then there are these risks. But in the case of minor defects, most of these compensate by turning their head while driving. Sweden has as its only country in the world, I think, for supposed fair reasons and for ophthalmologists and testers to avoid difficult balances, i.e. to do their job, banned practical extended driving tests. A single large-scale example shows how wrong this is. Norway is our western neighbour. In Norway, the number of road deaths per million people is perhaps the lowest in the world, and lower than in Sweden. Norway does not have a driving simulator but allows those with minor visual field deficiencies to run tests for experienced assessors across the country. If thousands of people who had been deprived of their driving licences in Sweden long before Anna Johansson became Minister of Transport had instead lived in Norway or in other countries, they would have been allowed to keep their driving licences without the traffic accidents having increased. I have been in contact with so many of these sufferers and suffer with them. The Swedish Transport Agency trusts its squarely axed, strict rules and has no compassion, nor so the government, unfortunately. Road safety professor Kjell Ohlsson and the very experienced eye doctor Bo Philipson are strongly critical of the Swedish Transport Agency's strict rules as well as leading experts in countries such as Australia and the United States. It honours the S- and MP group in the Transport Committee that in spring 2014 they supported a similar motion from me, and it honours the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats that they also do so. On the other hand, it is extremely sad that the Council of State and a majority of committees are again referring today to the Swedish Transport Agency's subjective and partly incorrect data on rules in other countries and on the requirements of synthesized machines. In the next post, I will show you how the Swedish Transport Agency sifts mosquitoes and swallows camels. But my question to the Minister is: Norway, with the world's lowest traffic mortality, has no driving simulator and allows practical driving tests, which the Swedish Transport Agency rejects – does the Minister also?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-189	Mr President, I would like to I do not intend to judge or rate how other countries deal with this. These are very difficult questions. The starting point must, of course, be that there should be as little arbitrariness as possible in these decisions and that road safety should be ensured as far as possible. There is ongoing work within the Swedish Transport Agency, where, among other things, simulator testing is an important area to develop further. The aim is that the simulator currently available at VTI in Linköping will of course be tested and evaluated. It is hoped that, with the current technological development, this technology will be able to exist in more parts of the country, and that it will also be able to bring prices down significantly. This is an issue that I know is being discussed at the Swedish Transport Agency. I have a little difficulty understanding this with an independent investigation. This suggests that the Swedish Transport Agency is somehow running someone else's business, and I find it a little difficult to see who that someone else in this case would be. I believe that the Swedish Transport Agency is working on the basis of the directives and mandate of the government, that is to say to maintain regulations that promote road safety and to balance it with the need for mobility and accessibility for individual citizens. This is a question that I think will work itself out in time. The disadvantage of testing in real traffic is that the risk of arbitrariness increases, as it is difficult to ensure that different people tested at different times and locations are tested with the same conditions. Light conditions, what emerges or does not appear in front of the vehicle, how roads are constructed and so on, of course, differ, and this risks leading to an assessment that is not based on the same criteria. We do not want that either, I think we can still agree on that. But we can also agree that the way it works today is not optimal. I put great hope in the development of the new technology that is now under way in cooperation between the Swedish Transport Agency and VTI and that this technology will help us solve the problem in the short term.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-196	Mr President, I would like to What the Minister and Transport Agency are really saying is that in Norway they do not know what they are doing, that their driving tests are arbitrary and that they risk people's lives. Norway has lower road deaths than Sweden. Why shouldn't ophthalmologists and experienced licence examiners be allowed to do their job? Instead, it is tested in Sweden in a synthesized machine under tremendous stress. Then we have the simulator as a step in the right direction, but that is not enough. Sweden thus sets strict requirements for tests that those with minor visual field deficiencies must pass with their head fixed in a visual machine. If you do not cope with the stress and the strict requirements you do not get your driving licence back, end of story. Those who are deprived of their driving licences are those who are forced to report to the Swedish Transport Agency in the event of a slight deficiency in the field of vision. That's when you're considered dangerous to the road. The driver's license must be taken immediately, and you must not drive. Many more people in traffic with the same visual field deficiencies or greater do not go to doctors and do not notice that they have minor deficiencies. It may be older, 80 - 95 years old. The vision is affected and getting worse the older you get, even the field of vision. Drivers with visual field deficiencies who have EU and international driving licences, which have been tested, drive in Sweden in tens and hundreds of thousands. Should the minor deficiencies in the field of vision, which means that the Swedish Transport Agency immediately deprives thousands of people of their driving licences, as serious as the Swedish Transport Agency claims, the Swedish Transport Agency must conduct an extensive outreach activity in order to get all the multiple more on Swedish roads that drive with the same or larger field of vision deficiencies. But look, the Transport Agency doesn't at all, strangely enough. On the contrary, the Swedish Transport Agency is opposed to general vision tests being carried out at all during people's driving licences. Chief physician Englund has instead declared a great deal of faith in people's own judgments: D e will surely stop driving when the sight and visual fields get worse without control. This is extremely strange. Persons with minor visual field deficiencies must not show their driving ability in practical driving tests where you have to turn your head. The demands are rock hard. At the same time, many more people with the same or greater visual field deficiencies can freely drive on our roads without the Swedish Transport Agency lifting a finger to control their vision. The Swedish Transport Agency must commit serious misconduct when only the few who are notified to the Swedish Transport Agency are checked but do nothing at all about the many more people who are driving on our roads without action. Unless the government examines this strange disregard from the Swedish Transport Agency, responsibility also falls heavily on the government. This is something that the Ombudsman for Justice and perhaps the KU should examine. My assessment is that the Swedish Transport Agency is probably doing the right thing that does not regularly every two or five years check the vision and visual field of driving licence holders. The example from Norway shows that one has perhaps the lowest road mortality in the world. Then the rigid severity of those who are doctors is forced to report to the Swedish Transport Agency is completely inexplicable. If those who drive on with minor imperfections in their field of vision are not dangerous to traffic, how can those who pass a practical driving test be so? The Transport Committee says in its forthcoming report that it assumes that Sweden's rules are not stricter than those of other countries and that the Transport Agency will mitigate them if that is the case. The Minister of Transport suggests something similar. But both the committee and the minister put the goat as a gardener because it is the Swedish Transport Agency, which is very strict, that will evaluate its own regulations. This analysis requires justice for the people affected and the appointment of an independent investigator.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-208	Mr President, I would like to I could raise several objections to Staffan Danielsson's way of arguing and asserting things with some cross-security – things that I dare to say Staffan Danielsson really cannot prove. However, I am abstaining from this and I note that, as Mr Danielsson has said, this is a problem. This is also something that the Swedish Transport Agency has recognised, and it has an active work to develop this type of test. At the same time, it is of course important that those who have a driving licence in Sweden have good enough vision and not least wide enough field of view to be able to discover things around the car – this to ensure that we have good road safety. Norway is not alone in good road safety. Sweden stands out in international comparisons, and we are at the absolute peak because we have more regulations in a number of areas. It concerns the use of belts, how children travel by car, alcohol legislation and driving, speed limits and so on. We have high ambitions and, unlike many other countries, make road safety high. Our goal is for zero people to be seriously injured or killed in traffic. This means, of course, that we have stricter rules in some areas. I dare not argue that we are not in danger of increasing traffic uncertainty with less stringent demands on the field of vision. I do not think Staffan Danielsson dare to say that either if I stand up to myself. But as I said, I'm abstaining. As I said in my opening speech, I believe in the technological development that is now taking place with the simulator that already exists in Linköping and is being tested with good results. I hope that it will be able to spread to more places in the country and that there will therefore be a significantly lower cost of being tested. More than half of those who pay the fairly good money to be tested in the simulator are not allowed to keep their driving licence. One can well assume that those who pay this money to be tested themselves perceive that they look pretty good, because otherwise they would not have taken this extra step. Nor is it possible to conclude that almost half of those who are not tested in simulators are wrongly removed from their driving licence. We can turn and turn this around, but at the end of the day it is a balance between high road safety standards and the individual's ability to access and self-determination.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-217	Mr President, I would like to I am not talking about everyone; I am talking about those who have minor shortcomings and who pass practical tests, as in Norway and all other countries. The committee says in its forthcoming report that Sweden should not have stricter rules regarding visual fields, and if they are more stringent, the Swedish Transport Agency should adapt them. I hope the Minister feels the same way. The minister didn't answer my question. The Swedish Transport Agency is very strict with those reported while not doing anything to those who are not reported but who have the same or major flaws, are older and drive. If it is so dangerous, it is misconduct not to examine everyone who drives a car and everyone who comes with an international driving licence or an EU driving licence, which has, of course, undergone much easier visual tests. It's very strange. I have been involved in the issue and wrote 15 blog posts. There are materials that show that Sweden is uniquely strict, which the Swedish Transport Agency believes that Sweden is not at all. It also shows that driving tests are being carried out in all other countries, as the Swedish Transport Agency now finally admits after all years of telling the government and parliament that we have the same rules. So that's not true. Anyone who wants to look at the argumentation, I refer to my 15 blog posts. If you google my name, Staffan Danielsson, you will find it. I would like to appeal to the Minister for Transport, who has been in office for a couple of years and has not been present in previous years with alliance governments and other governments, and to the new Director General Annika Sjöberg, the Swedish Transport Agency, to allow independent forces that are not so locked, let alone within the government and the Swedish Transport Agency, to review Sweden's rules in relation to practices in other countries.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-223	Mr President, I would like to As I said, Sweden's regulatory framework relates to the EU's third driving licence directive. The Swedish Transport Agency is responsible for the practical implementation and exact requirements to be made. I do not think it makes sense to make a comparison with other countries. We can afford to decide for ourselves what demands we make as long as they do not conflict with the EU acquis. However, there is a great need to develop testing activities to ensure a fair assessment. Here I place great hope in technological development. It will certainly continue to be discussed whether or not visual tests at certain intervals are necessary to ensure continued good eyesight in the general public. I assume that this discussion will remain. The longer you get in reducing traffic mortality, the harder it will be to take the next step. We have taken quite a few measures in the area of road safety that other countries have not taken, and we have achieved good results. However, this means that every new step we take to move towards zero requires a slightly higher level of ambition than other countries. We should be proud of this, but at the same time, of course, we should ensure a fair and legally certain assessment for medical reasons in order to have a driving licence or not.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-228	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the coordination between Swedish and Norwegian traffic authorities. Pål Jonsson has also asked me if it is my view that the measures proposed in the Swedish Transport Administration's action selection study in February respond to the future needs of the Striket Stockholm – Oslo. Improving the conditions for people and businesses to choose the train for their transport to a greater extent than they do today is a priority task for the government. It is also the government's view that the development of cross-border transport infrastructure should promote both passenger and freight transport and all modes of transport. There must be cooperation between countries on infrastructure planning that can be developed at all times. However, the plans themselves remain a national matter. A choice of measures study is a method used by the Finnish Transport Agency in the early stages to identify problems and needs for possible measures in the transport system by thinking cross-border and applying the four-step principle. It is therefore not a basis that is passed on to the government. However, I note that the Swedish Transport Administration states on its website that what has now been presented is an interim report that contains a summary of the conditions of the route and identifies shortcomings in the infrastructure. It also sets objectives for the development of the transport system. In the further work, Trafikverket will carry out in-depth analyses of the proposed measures to present a basis for further planning in autumn 2017. I assume that these studies will be able to form one of several bases in Trafikverket's ongoing work on the action plan for the planning period 2018 – 2029. The Government intends to establish the national plan and the financial framework for the county plans in spring 2018. I cannot anticipate this work. The selection study for the Striket Stockholm – Oslo mentioned by the interpellant is one of several good examples of ongoing cooperation between the Swedish and Norwegian transport authorities. The Swedish Transport Agency leads the study of travel and transport within the bow between Stockholm and Oslo, but it is carried out in collaboration between many different parties at different levels, including the Norwegian Jernbaneverket and the Swedish Road Administration. There are also other examples of cooperation between transport authorities. On behalf of the Norwegian Government, Jernbaneverket, in close cooperation with Trafikverket, has conducted a study on the Oslo-Gothenburg route, in order to find out together what measures best increase the capacity of the existing track. In view of the above, I do not intend to take any measures at this stage to strengthen the coordination between Swedish and Norwegian transport authorities.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-237	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. It is particularly opportune to have this debate on the string Stockholm – Oslo today, given that the Nordic Council has its session here in the house on the same day. I would like to start by recalling that Norway is Sweden's largest export market. Only goods exports to Norway amounted to 120 billion last year. In the last five years, exports to Norway have increased by nearly 30 per cent. Furthermore, there are more people who commute to Norway than to Denmark. In my own county of Värmland, almost 5 per cent of the population or every 20 warmers work in Norway. To put this a little more into perspective, I can see that we have three times as much trade with Norway as we have with China. The development of the Norwegian economy and the promotion of a strong infrastructure in all its parts between Sweden and Norway should be a strong Swedish interest. We know that Stockholm – Oslo is characterised by strong population growth. This means that infrastructure efforts within the bow will become increasingly important in the future in order to respond to a growing need. I would like to draw the Minister for Infrastructure's attention to an article in today's industry last week. It was written by the CEOs of the chambers of commerce in Oslo, Karlstad, Mälardalen and Stockholm. They pointed out that the major shortcomings in the infrastructure within the Striket Stockholm – Oslo are a major obstacle to entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. Basically, all this is about the distance between Stockholm and Gothenburg being comparable to that between Stockholm and Oslo. It is 47 mil compared to 51 mil to Oslo, but at the same time it takes almost two hours extra to travel by train from Stockholm to Oslo compared to Gothenburg. This has characterized travel in Sweden. I can see that the train has almost 60% of the market for Stockholm – Gothenburg but only 12% of the journey between Stockholm and Oslo. The Swedish Transport Administration's action selection study for the Striket Stockholm – Oslo points out that train travel has great potential if you deal with the deficiencies that exist along the bow, which are significant. According to the ÅVS, there are deficiencies in the operation and maintenance of the railway and in punctuality due to high capacity utilisation, it is uneven standard on the railway that affects the entire bow and there is a lack of redundancy, not least because there are single tracks on the Värmlandsbanan and Kongsvingerbanan. I can see that the surface of Värmlandsbanan has increased by almost 90 per cent over the last ten years and that the Swedish Transport Administration now classes it as overloaded. As the Minister of Infrastructure knows, there is an initiative called 2.55 that was initiated by Region Värmland, Karlstad Municipality and Region Örebro. The initiative is growing strongly. We will have a seminar here in Parliament tomorrow, in which the Minister for Infrastructure is very welcome to participate if she wishes. This is an initiative to get the discussion started, linked to the bow Stockholm – Oslo.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-247	Mr President, I would like to There will be two issues in part in parallel. The intervention was actually about cooperation between authorities in the two countries. I can mention that, as late as last autumn – in fact much earlier – I initiated a meeting of the Nordic Transport Ministers in November, not to have joint planning at a detailed level, but to ensure that we pay attention to the needs of cross-border transport that works. It is both about freight flows and about work commuting, which is an important part of all our economies. Depending on where in Sweden you are, we have border trade, freight traffic and work commuting between Sweden and Finland in the north, between Sweden and Norway along large parts of western Sweden and between Sweden and Denmark in the south. These are important issues, and that is why we wrote a lot in the infrastructure bill that Parliament decided in December. More attention should be paid to cross-border transport both for goods and for persons. They have not really had that perspective in previous planning rounds, but I hope that with both the clear wording of the bill and several of the ongoing projects that the Swedish Transport Administration is involved in among others, we will have a clearer connection. There are several examples, and I mentioned some in my interpellation response. The Malmbanan and Lofotenbanan are further examples. The preparatory work on Kvarkentrafiken is another, as is Haparandabanan. In particular, the project on the construction of a common traffic management system for road traffic is another example. So a great deal is happening in this area. In that part we have taken a step in the right direction to ensure a common view of our needs. The second question, on which the second speech is more concerned, is how the infrastructure as such is developed and how to assess the standard, the need for rehabilitation and so on. D is an issue to which we will come back in the national plan. The current national plan, which the Finnish Transport Administration is working on, was decided by the then bourgeois government in 2014. If you are dissatisfied with the priorities in it, you can turn to the then government.
i-WvEv8sdCWYfm2jg6U77fWQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. As the Government knows, the Riksdag has announced to the Government that it wants to see better coordination between the traffic authorities on both sides of the border. There are strong reasons for this. If we take up again the choice study produced by Trafikverket, we can note that it explicitly states that the rich border has become a major obstacle for functional regions. The ÅVS also points out that there is no common Swedish-Norwegian traffic plan and that there are major problems at national level but also at regional and local level when it comes to both transport and fixed infrastructure. It states that there is a lack of common forecasting models to count on the societal benefits of cross-border infrastructure investments, and there is no common target that can guide infrastructure across borders. There is still a great deal of work to be done to improve the efficiency of cross-border investments. The ÅVS also points to a lack of commitment to the final nodes – Stockholm and Oslo – and that other municipalities and regions are driving the common issues. All of this, in my view, is a rather great shortcoming and a problem, not least in view of the scale of trade with Norway, in this case, and the closeness of business contacts. As the Government knows, travelling between Stockholm and Oslo has increased strongly since SJ set in high-speed trains a little over a year ago. Travel has increased between Karlstad and Oslo, where we have seen an increase of almost 76 per cent over a year. That's excellent. I know a number of companies that have established themselves in Karlstad to use the geographical proximity to the Norwegian market. At the same time, we now know that this development is affected by the Norwegians' plans to implement a reconstruction between Kongsvinger and Lillestr ø m. It will be implemented in daytime. It is excellent that the Norwegians invest in rail traffic, not least for freight traffic to flow. But there will be a hack in the flow between Stockholm and Oslo. The reason I mention this is because I think it is a symptom of the lack of coordination between traffic authorities. I therefore once again wonder whether the Minister for Infrastructure has any information in this particular case or whether she is satisfied with the cooperation that exists today between the traffic authorities.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-260	Mr President, I would like to I think I expressed myself quite clearly in my previous speech. We see that there is a great need in this regard, and it has not worked well enough in the past. However, we are now taking several steps to improve the coherence of the needs of cross-border traffic, i.e. that the needs are not only seen up to the national border, but that cross-border traffic is taken into account in action selection studies and needs analysis. There, the Swedish Transport Administration, with the wordings that are very clear in the infrastructure bill, has been given an indication that this is important. There are a number of examples where this is deepened piece by piece. I would like to point out, in order for us to keep things separate, that the quotations mentioned here are not part of the Finnish Transport Agency's views or conclusions, but they are comments received from other stakeholders. Nevertheless, it is important that we continue to develop, for example, a common forecasting instrument. The Finnish Transport Agency, on behalf of the Government, is developing common forecasting instruments with Denmark in relation to cross-border traffic. I think it is important that we have a corresponding development when it comes to looking at how to measure needs and societal benefits also together with Norway and eventually perhaps with Finland. This is therefore an ongoing development work. I am not satisfied because it has not worked well enough. It's working a little better now. We have a number of different projects or development initiatives going on and on, and we certainly need to do more in this area. Since one of the points mentioned here is that we do not have a common plan, I would argue that we should not have it in the future either. Indeed, as a government, we must be able to make a priority on the basis of our national circumstances. Should we have a common Nordic infrastructure plan, the question is how it would relate to national priorities. Would it be fulfilled first, and would the rest of the funds then be used for what also needs to be done? I think it is important that we assess these objects and interventions in the same process as we assess all other objects and needs. In that part, I am not prepared to proceed with a common and comprehensive Nordic plan. However, we are already working on it in all other parts – to ensure that we have better coordination.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-265	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister for Infrastructure that a common Nordic infrastructure plan is not in the cards. Such a thing would be more complicated. However, as the choice of measures study pointed out, it was a problem that, among other things, there was no common target. I would also like to take this opportunity to note that the Swedish Transport Administration's action selection study for Stockholm – Oslo highlights all the elements of the infrastructure. It is also pointed out that there is a great need for investment also on the road side, as we know nationally. Ultimately, it is good roads that give the majority of people outside the metropolitan areas the greatest benefit in everyday life. The E18 is a little bit the artery between Stockholm and Oslo. Every year millions of cars cross the national border on it. We know that it has invested quite strongly on the Norwegian side, all the way to the Norwegian border from Oslo. But we also know that we are behind on the Swedish side. It is mainly west of Karlstad, as the Minister is probably aware. The choice of action study points to the urgent need for a meeting-separated route along the entire E18, and that is not the case today. It is very important, not least for road safety, that the road is separated. Personally, I would like to see the E18 being a highway all the way. That is why I wonder how the Minister sees the conditions for actually making the whole of the E18 meeting separated and whether it is a priority. Finally, it is also mentioned in the election study that investments in the locks in Trollhättan are important in view of the large load that is now on the edge of Stockholm – Oslo. That is why I also wonder whether the Minister might have any information on this. Can we expect a reconstruction of the locks in Trollhättan, which is important for Vänersjöfart?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-271	Mr President, I would like to Now we are discussing two different things at the same time. One is coordination. There I have replied that increased coordination is important. It has not been sufficiently developed, and we need to continue to develop both consensus and better collaboration also in concrete objects and so on, as well as action selection studies and needs analyses. That's where we're in complete agreement. The second question is about what measures we should take and prioritise in the national plan. That is a completely different question. There, the Government intends to return with a message in the spring of 2018. Until then, we will not give any information about individual objects, whether in the case of locks, roads or railways. We would ask you to come back to us there. On the other hand, there are major shortcomings around the country, as we have been underinvesting in infrastructure for quite a long time. This applies not least to railway maintenance. I can see that, with regard to the Oslo – Stockholm section, there are relatively small measures and increased quality in the existing runway – and that it chose to put in another type of train – and with fairly simple means and not huge financial efforts managed to reduce travel time quite dramatically. It has produced results in the form of increased travel and increased attractiveness. There, of course, we also need to ensure that we choose cost-effective and socially sound measures in order to achieve the greatest possible benefit.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-274	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked Minister Ardalan Shekarabi what conclusions the Government draws from the results of the report that sickness absence is lower in private welfare than in public welfare, and what measures this requires from the Government. The question has been handed over to me. Sick leave has increased by nearly 80 per cent since 2010. Sick leave has increased in all sectors of the labour market. The report from Försäkringskassan referred to by Lotta Finstorp shows that the number of cases of illness is disturbed within the municipalities, followed by the county councils, the state and the private sector. According to Försäkringskassan, some of the differences in sickness absence between different sectors can be explained by health and safety problems in activities such as health care, school, care and social services in the municipal and county councils sector. Other explanations may include differences in organisation and leadership, forms of employment and contractual relationships, the gender, age and educational composition of employees, and the direction and content of operations. However, the fact that differences in sickness absences in a particular sector are due to a particular form of private or public activity is not something that the Social Insurance Agency's report shows. The mode of operation is therefore only one of several explanatory factors. The Government's goal is a long-term low and stable absence for both women and men. The key to such a development is the improvement of the working environment. This applies in particular to the psychosocial work environment in women-dominated workplaces in healthcare, school and care. I would therefore like to highlight the importance of the new regulations from the Swedish Work Environment Authority on organizational and social work environment. The regulations will be a tool to prevent social and organisational risks to health and safety at work and to clarify the responsibility for these issues. I note that there has been an increased focus on these issues with the new regulations. Although sick leave varies between sectors and sectors, measures need to be taken in all sectors of the labour market. It is therefore gratifying that the social partners for both the county council and the state and private sectors have responded very positively to the government's initiative on joint efforts for healthier workplaces and reduced sick leave. In all these sectors, on the basis of the declarations of intent agreed by the parties, efforts are now being made to meet the specific challenges of each sector. Adapting efforts to the situation in each sector and sector is a prerequisite for achieving the desired results. I have regular meetings with the social partners to follow up the work of the parties and to discuss ongoing, planned and future measures that contribute to healthier workplaces and a long-term stable sick leave.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-279	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. In 2003, LO argued that there were no differences in the number of sick leave in the public and private welfare sectors. LO argued that any differences in this case were due to statistical errors. It is important to highlight the problems and not try to cover them up. I think there are many of us who believe this, because it is only then that this can be changed. Therefore, it is very good that Försäkringskassan has done this report, because now there is black on white. Both sectors can also learn a lot from each other to reduce sickness rates. The new statistics from Försäkringskassan show that women in the health and social care sector, especially those working in housing for the elderly and disabled, have the highest sickness absence of all groups in the labour market. At the same time, the statistics show that private companies in the health and social care sector have lower sick leave. In the report, Försäkringskassan reports the number of start-up cases that have lasted more than 14 days per 1,000 employed persons in 2015, broken down by industry and sector. Then it can – hopefully – be that the Social Insurance Agency continues to break down the statistics so that we can get an even better basis. The number of days of sick leave provides a good description of ongoing sick leave and also includes the long illness cases, which started before 2015. The private sector has significantly lower sick leave in general, for both women and men, compared to other sectors. Of those analysed, however, most women and men work in the private sector. Lars-Lars-Åke Brattlund, who is head of Försäkringskassan, comments the report in a very interesting way. He says that there are driving forces in the private sector that make sickness rates lower, and he believes that higher management density, for example, can be such a thing. It is higher management density of private employers than it is of the public, and that could be the reason. If there are more bosses, the signals are detected earlier. After all, the Minister and I have stood in this Chamber many times trying to analyse and find solutions to the question of how to reduce sickness rates, and this is one of those things where health and safety issues come in very clearly. A manager who has 70 employees will try to see how they are doing and make sure that they feel encouraged in their work in terms of development – it also makes people feel better in the workplace – and so on. It is not rocket science in any way that the driving force can actually be, for example, that a manager has fewer employees underneath him. The analysis he makes is not really difficult to understand. However, I think that one should look at each other and much more learn from each other. Moreover, when I think about it quite painfully, it is actually us politicians who are employers in the public sector, where sickness rates are so worryingly high. The way in which the private sector deals with these issues should therefore be taken into account. Public employers are politically governed, both in municipalities and county councils, and it is we elected representatives who are employers. Of 21 county councils and regions, 15 are S-led, and 198 of Sweden's 290 municipalities are S-led. Then there are some municipalities where we Moderates and Social Democrats work together; for example, in Sörmland there are several municipalities that look like that. Why do public employers not have managers present who can pick up early signals? My experience is that you often take the lowest hanging fruits when you have to save money in municipal and county council activities.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-288	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important debate, Lotta Finstorp. We can at least clean away from the table that it would be due to statistical errors that we see a difference in sickness absence between sectors. This is not, of course, a fact that has been known for a long time. I myself have a background as trade union president of a union that organises civil servants in both private and public welfare activities, and I know that this is what it looks like. I think we still need to put our finger on an incredibly important point: although the levels differ, it can be seen that even in private activities, women-dominated care, school and care have a higher level of sick leave than other parts of the private sector – although not at the same levels as in the public sector, where there are also high sickness rates first and foremost in the women-dominated parts. So it is really possible to break down the activities that are dominated by women and have obvious problems with work organisation. One thing that I think Lotta Finstorp really puts her finger on in this is that you see these problems in much larger workplaces where the management density is significantly lower. In smaller workplaces, where it becomes much more difficult for the business if an employee is gone, it tends to also spend more resources on and work more actively with the work environment and with having a low and stable sick absence. For it is simply too expensive in different ways when employees are sick and gone. This is something that the public sector needs to learn more from. I would really like to emphasise that what it must be about is learning from the good examples. Just as there are many good examples in private welfare activities, there are workplaces on the public side where the organisational problems have really been addressed – which we know quite well today. When you do, you also manage to bring down sick leave. We politicians should demand each other and ourselves to give much greater priority to healthy workplaces. We can only conclude that the cost we have for the excessive absence of sickness in these activities today is totally unacceptable. Therefore, it should be the task of each responsible politician to ensure that this issue is part of the strategic management and governance of the respective county councils or municipalities. As I said, it is expensive for the individual and expensive for the employer, and it is about occupational groups where there is already a major shortage and where the possibility of being attractive workplaces needs to be safeguarded. From a socio-economic point of view, this is also extremely expensive. There is a report from last autumn that shows that sick leave in municipalities and county councils costs us about 20 billion per year. That is, of course, totally unacceptable.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-295	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for an important debate. I think it was in Vision's report last autumn that good examples of municipalities that have worked very actively to become an attractive employer. Torsby in Värmland is an example, and when I read about how they worked and how low sickness rates they have, I was very impressed. Each municipality should be able to work in the same way. I therefore believe that the public sector should look at good examples in the public sector as well. I was also thinking about this with healthy workplaces, as the Minister mentions. Somewhere in the system there should be carrots. Swedish Business and Industry's expert Catharina Bäck talks about Försäkringskassan's report, how important it is to be able to take advantage of work capacity despite illness, to be able to switch to a care unit, for example, so that an employee who has a disease or injury can still stay and work a few hours a day to the extent possible. It requires quite a lot of flexibility in the business. Then a private employer cannot afford to be a bad employer. I read on the Swedish Enterprise's website about Jane Lindell Ljunggren who is CEO of Hattstugan, a group accommodation for people with dementias on Gotland. They invest in keeping low sickness rates, because the staff is fine and the elderly feel better. She also says that, if we don't create a good workplace, we get higher sickness rates and then we go bankrupt. Of course it's a carrot as good as anyone. Of course, a public service does not have that carrot in the same way, but it should still be possible to think that way, and that is why I think it is important that we have both private companies and public activities in the welfare sector so that there is both. Then the new facts that we have seen about sickness absence and the discussion about profits in welfare come quickly. There is some myth that private companies provide poor quality care and care, but there is no scientific evidence. It's out of the air. The report from Försäkringskassan shows that private health care companies still maintain a very good quality for those who are employed, if we generalise and look at the statistics. That is why I find it very unfortunate that there is often a very black-and-white debate – as if everything in public is much better than what is private. I think it is extremely important that all parts remain, both public and private, because then you can learn from each other and there are also more employers to choose from. The way I see it, there are really only benefits. On the issue of health and safety at work, the new regulation celebrates a year now; I think it was 31 March. It's quite interesting, I think. The time has now been too short, but an evaluation should be carried out if it has been successful and what changes have been made. That is the question I would like to ask the Minister: what happens to this? Will there be an evaluation, perhaps in two years' time, to see if it has had any effect?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-306	Madam President, I would like First of all, we can well see that there are good examples from welfare in a little different places, and these are just the good examples, whether they are in private-run welfare or in public-run welfare, which we need to take care of. In particular, as I mentioned, even though there is a lower level of sick leave in private welfare, they are still higher than in other activities. What we need to take to heart somewhere is that the conditions for the employees who work to care for our children and elderly and vulnerable people should be at least as good as the conditions in the labour market otherwise in terms of the ability to do a good job, in terms of wages and in terms of the status of the profession. I think that's an extremely important thing to talk about. Quite recently, only a few weeks ago, the Swedish Work Environment Authority's final report on the review work they have done over five years on women's work environment was also presented, and this is summarised in a White Paper. It is very readable, considering what it is in the working environment that generates the ill health we see among women in these activities. There are also the answers to what needs to be done. Once again, I think it is incredibly important that we politicians at different levels talk about the importance of prioritizing staff issues, human resources policy and creating a good working environment, because just like the example that Lotta Finstorp refers to from Gotland, employers, whether they are in private or public activities, realize that when you work long-term, active and purposeful with healthy, decent workplaces all benefit from it. Employees benefit from it, and it will be an economic profitability in the business that will enable you to invest more. The users in particular are much more satisfied. I visited Torsby quite recently and talked to them about the work they do. They were just talking about the importance of close cooperation with occupational health care, the need to work preventively, to create a culture and a long-term perspective in health work and that this is a top priority of policy. I really think this is something. We know so much today that it is about making sure to do rather than talk. It is also important to say that we in the Government are also concerned that different types of actors should be able to be active in welfare. A diversity of actors in welfare contributes to innovation, development and good practice, and we also know that freedom of choice is welcome among users. At the same time, and I do not really think we are in such different places, freedom of choice must not, of course, be at the expense of order in welfare. You can also say that if you want to make big money, you might want to go somewhere else. I think there need to be other driving forces if you are to operate in welfare. We know, for example, that many other EU Member States have a significantly disturbed share of ideas-based actors in welfare. We can also consider how we can achieve this.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-314	Madam President, I would like What you're thinking about all the time now that sickness rates are as high as they are is why the work environment is neglected with employers that we can directly influence. It's very strange, I think, and we, who are in the city council and so on at home, must all be able to do our part. It is not often these issues are put on the agenda in the public sector, I have to say. There is something called the Jobbhälsa barometer, which is developed by Sweden's Occupational Health Sciences and the Swedish Quality Index. Statistics on employees' views of work in different parts of the labour market have been reported there. When it comes to health care, school and long-term care, the statistics are divided into private and public employees so that you can look at it much as in the Social Insurance Agency's report. The latest available survey shows that fitness teachers are more satisfied with their work. They are more satisfied with the physical work environment as well as the development of skills. They also have greater confidence in their immediate manager's professional skills and leadership skills. I think it's quite interesting to include this with being the leader of a lot of employees, being the supervisor in the day-to-day operations but also looking forward to development and so on. We may have to make more efforts to become leaders in the public sector and in the welfare sector. Finally, I would just like to ask a few questions that we have touched on. How can we get more healthy workplaces in contact professions? We have touched on that a little bit, but it is still difficult to put your finger on. What conclusions does the Government draw from the results of the report that sick leave is lower in private welfare than in public welfare?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-318	Madam President, I would like As I said, we can see that in the public sector it is often about extremely large jobs, but also about politicians who may often be passionate about issues other than human resources policy. Now, of course, we have a task to ensure in various ways that this extremely strategic issue comes up higher on the political agenda also in municipalities and county councils. This is part of the declarations of intent that SKL has signed together with the unions to bring down sick leave. A very clear wording here is that this issue must become a clearer part of management and governance in municipalities and county councils. If you read the Swedish Work Environment Authority's White Paper on Women's Work Environment, it is extremely clear: If we are to cope with welfare and staffing issues in the future, this will be absolutely crucial. I think that is part of the answer to the question of how we achieve more healthy jobs in the contact professions, whether in the private or public sector. It is about talking about the working environment conditions in these activities also having to be much better than they are today and perhaps above all that we should learn from what has not worked historically and take on board current research on how to organize workplaces. I believe that the Social Insurance Agency's report needs to be broken down in order to draw these clear conclusions. We know that we have a higher age composition in municipal operations, we know that we have larger workplaces in many places and we know that we have more subordinates per manager. So we have a lesson to do here. The aim must be not to start arguing about the operating form so much, but to have decent workplaces for women in health care, school and care. Thank you for a good debate!
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-323	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld has asked me whether I intend to work towards broadening the statistics on the employment rate and when this will happen. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to ensure that SCB's statistics give a more accurate picture of the economic prosperity of Sweden. The government ensures SCB's statistics through clear objectives for the agency's activities. The Authority shall produce official statistics of good quality. Good quality statistics are important for the transparency of citizens, for decision-making and evaluation and for research. The government has recently decided to tighten up the quality requirements for the statistical authorities by evaluating the official statistics, each within its statistical area. SCB is the responsible authority for official statistics on, among other things, the labour market and household income and living conditions. It is SCB's responsibility that the statistics are of good quality, which means, among other things, that they should be easily accessible, up-to-date and relevant to users. The influence that border commuting may give rise to shall be managed and taken into account by the Authority in the production of official statistics. I have learned that SCB has conducted studies to manage the effects of border commuting on income statistics. I would also like to remind you that, within the framework of its fee-financed activities, SCB may carry out tasks for municipalities and other users according to their different needs. In this context, I would also like to inform you that the lack of long-term funding of border regional statistics is a border barrier in Nordic cooperation. The issue of a joint financing solution is being prepared within the Nordic Council of Ministers, where there is also a project on the exchange of data on, among other things, income and employment between the Nordic countries for a limited period. The first results of this project are expected to be available during the summer.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-330	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi, for the answer to mi n interpellation! Both I and my colleague, Mrs Cecilie-Toftby, have highlighted this issue. This is a question which should not be particularly partisan, but I hope and assume that we all think it would be good if the statistics that we obtain and use, not least what we get through the Central Statistical Office, are correct and give a fair picture of reality. I myself live in Vä rmland, which is a border county to Norway where a large part of our population chooses to work for shorter or longer periods. Norway and not least Oslo are an important part of the Värmland labour market region. The municipalities bordering directly with Norway are even more affected by this. For some time, not least during the last parliamentary term, that is, from 2010 to 2014 and perhaps even some year before, there was a very active and, to a large extent, loud discussion about what was then called child poverty. We have far too many people in Sweden today who live with little or no margins and in exclusion. However, we can see that the municipalities bordering Norway and also Denmark have a higher degree of families described as fiiga. This year, for example, the children in Årjäng were described as the poorest in Värmland, and indeed the poorest children in Sweden after the children in Malmö. It was quite misleading figures, because a large part of the parents work in Norway and work in Norway and thus officially do not earn any money according to the statistics but in reality earns more than many who work in Sweden. The figures are produced by SCB with knowledge of the situation, as is also stated. Unfortunately, statistics and information are widely used, and in nte least the organization Save the Children used this information. Despite comments, there was apparently no willingness to address the shortcomings of the statistics, but the most interesting thing was to show that there were as many poor children as possible. They have also been used as bats in the political debate. Not least the Minister's own party did a great deal of this a few years ago. Håkan Juholt made this his big question. I am not going to use this statistic one to criticise the government, as it does not give a correct description of the reality. There are many good reasons to criticise the government in many areas, not least in matters that play a role in the economic development of our citizens, but this is a completely different debate. If you are serious about the statistics and have the ambition to deal with the problems we face, it is important that you focus on solving those issues, and then it is good if the basis is correct. When it comes to strengthening the economy of our citizens as well as that of our country, we have moderated many proposals. If you make proposals and devote the debate to issues where there are misleading statistics, you will not only be unserious, but you will also be in danger of taking the wrong measures and misleading the citizens. That is why we have put our questions to the Minister. Unfortunately, the answers do not make us much wiser. I would like the Minister to make it more concrete. Does the more stringent demands that the Minister says that the statistics should be correct in the future?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-338	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ardalan Shekarabi, for your answer! The background to my interpellation and to my colleague Christian Holm Barenfeld's interpellation is a number of pressures from the border municipalities that do not recognize themselves in the official figures presented by the Statisti Central Bureau. They also do not recognize themselves when, as Christian Holm Barenfeld here said, Save the Children highlights their municipalities as places where child poverty is spreading. When we examine what is at the root of their frustration, it turns out that residents who live in Sweden but work in, for example, Norway, my former homeland, or Denmark are registered as having no income. It could be said that when Norway is doing well, and it has done so, income is decreasing and child poverty is spreading in our border municipalities, at least according to the statistics. Statistics and cursed lies– it is an expression that is sometimes used. Statistics are also the basis for important social initiatives, and it is important that the figures presented by Statistics Sweden are correct. The government ensures SCB's statistics through clear targets, says Minister Shekarabi and continues that the quality of the statistics is important. I fully agree with that last point. However, I have to ask the Government whether the government has been sufficiently clear on the definition of objectives. I believe and believe that the answer to that question should be no, especially since the Government also says in its answer that the government has recently decided on stricter quality requirements. Madam President, I would like I very much hope that the government will have the impact of border commutes on the statistics in its decision on precisely tightened quality requirements. I was curious about a sentence in the Government's response. The Government says that he has been learning that SCB has conducted studies to manage the effects of border commuting on income statistics. How has he experienced it? If so, is the Government satisfied with the results of these studies?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-344	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpellants. It may sound like this is an administrative matter or a matter of detail that is not of great importance. But statistics mean a lot to our community. In the Prime Minister's series, which was published a few years ago, you can read a publication about one of our least-known prime ministers, Rickard Sandler. Already in the 20th century he started working on statistical policy. We need statistics to be able to make wise decisions. This was the reason why, at the beginning of the welfare building in Sweden, the focus was on statistical policy and Statistics Sweden's central office. I agree with the interpellants on the importance of reliable statistics relating to border regions and that we need statistics in order to be able to make the right decisions on border commuting in the Nordic countries. I will reply directly to Mrs Cecilie-Toftby's question: No, I am not satisfied. One cannot be satisfied because there is a lack of statistics on our border regions. For this reason, I invited the representatives of Sweden's border municipalities to a municipal dialogue last year. We have conducted municipal dialogues with all municipalities at county level. But we had a specific municipal dialogue with the border municipalities, to identify the problems that municipalities in the border regions face in their activities. And there are a lot of problems. The statistical problems are one of the problem areas where we need to act, in the management of SCB's operations but also through Nordic cooperation. But there are also several other structural and legal problems that cause it for Sweden's border municipalities. What are we going to do, based on the knowledge that we have gained from the municipal dialogues and not least thanks to the discussion that we have at the moment? First of all, SCB also sees shortcomings in the statistics. Statistics Sweden's official income statistics mainly cover income from work and various transfers in Sweden. Labour income for people living in Sweden but working in other countries is generally not taxed in Sweden and is therefore not reported to the Swedish Tax Agency in the same way as Swedish income. That is why we have the problems mentioned by the interpellants. This means that most of this revenue is missing from the statistics. It is mainly in individual municipalities in Värmland, Västra Götaland County and Skåne, as well as municipalities on the border with Finland – I recently visited Haparanda who are struggling with these problems – as lower income levels and employment rates than are actually shown. It also affects data on child poverty, as highlighted by the interpellants. Against this background, SCB conducted a study in 2016 and 2017 on the impact of border commuting on income statistics using salary income data from Denmark and Norway for people living in Sweden but working in the neighbouring country. These data are now primarily used to produce border regional statistics on behalf of the relevant county councils – Skåne, Värmland and Västra Götaland – and the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society. Now it is the county councils and the authority that finances the collection of border commuting data. SCB continues that work. In addition to this, we have the Nordic project carried out within the framework of the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. We'll get a first report from there this summer. I intend to follow this closely and take action if necessary.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-355	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is good if there will be correct statistics. Much that we do is complicated, difficult and time consuming. But it is usually quite easy to find out statistics on income in Sweden. I'm not a professional at what it's like to get it in Norway. But I don't think it's rocket science. Merging those data should be relatively simple, compared to many other things that we do. I don't think that's true. Of the ten municipalities that were estimated to have the highest proportion of poor children, eight or nine are very close to the Norwegian border and someone close to the Danish border. The municipalities with the lowest proportion of poor children are located primarily in the immediate Stockholm area or on the east coast. There you do not commute to the same extent, at least not daily because it becomes somewhat longer. This means that there is a risk of statistics shifting focus. Statistics are good. It is important as a basis for us to be able to make correct decisions. It is somewhat worse when used as a means to confirm a thesis that an organization, party or individual may have. That is why it is a good thing that we in this House and our authorities are happy to use correct figures, so that we talk about the same things and use all the means we have to focus on solving the challenges. We should not ignore the fact that there are far too many people in Sweden who, although in many ways it goes well in Sweden, live with very small margins. Outsiders are increasing in many residential areas, despite an improvement in the unemployment rate for people with a decent situation. Yet more and more people are getting further away from the labour market. One might think that they would be in municipalities such as Årjäng, Eda or Torsby in Värmland, for example. But I am convinced that the situation is much more serious in municipalities that do not come close to this list at all. This is because people who live and work in the border-by-border municipalities are included in the statistics, but those who work on the other side of the border are not included. I confidently await SCB's new tasks. Then we will have discussions on how to solve the alienation problems. This is a completely different debate.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-361	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. I am very well aware of the problem of border barriers raised by the Government. I am now in my second term of office in the Nordic Council and have worked specifically on the issue of border barriers. The Nordic Council has gathered right here in the Swedish Parliament, today and yesterday. It has just finished its session. The common Nordic labour market and the issue of border barriers are two of the most important areas of work in the Nordic Council. In its reply, the Government states that the lack of long-term funding of border regional statistics is listed as a barrier to border cooperation in the Nordic region. I share the Government's view and hope that Sweden will push for and work for it to be addressed. The Government also states that it is self-evident that someone must finance the production of the statistics. Statistics are important in order to get a true picture of the economic conditions in Sweden, as my colleague Christian Holm Barenfeld has also stated. It is a picture that will in turn form the basis for the government's various initiatives. Of course, the government should have a great interest in the accuracy of the figures. I am therefore a little worried when the Government highlights in its response that, within the framework of its fee-financed activities, SCB is allowed to carry out assignments for municipalities and other users based on their different needs. Does Minister Shekarabi mean that it is up to the border municipalities themselves to order and finance statistics from SCB that should already be in place when it comes to the target picture? That is how the Government's response could be interpreted. I think that this issue is too big to be handed over to individual municipalities. These are figures that – as my colleague, Christian Holm, also mentioned – will form the basis for future debates on child poverty, economic conditions and developments in Sweden.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-368	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you, the interpellants, for the important points in this debate. My answer to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby is no. I do not want a development where the municipalities finance the statistics that should be available in our country and that, among other things, SBC is responsible for producing. However, for it to be possible to have a continuous activity including data from our neighbours – including data on income conditions to be used for statistical production – a long-term financing model must also be introduced for this. At present, the project we talked about, Nordic Mobility, is being funded by the Nordic Council of Ministers. This project is run by Statistics Finland in Finland. This work involves exchanging data on income and employment between the Nordic countries for a limited period of time. Data exchange may lead to official statistics. In this case, statistics for 2015 and 2016 will be financed within the framework of the Nordic Mobility project. The idea is that the cross-border statistics should be included as part of the database for Nordic statistics. At the same time, the SCB is reviewing the possibilities of achieving long-term national funding for the ongoing collection of the corresponding data for statistics after 2016. These data shall then be used to complement both income statistics and employment statistics. They shall also be used to improve other statistics such as balance of payments and national accounts. I will follow this. The first report comes from the Council of Ministers during the summer. This is also an issue in which we have an intensive dialogue with the municipalities concerned. I am very pleased that we have had this discussion in Parliament today. These are important issues that are essentially about trust in our social institutions. If we use wrong statistics, both in decision-making and in political discussion, there will be difficulties in the long term with confidence in the social debate and the institutions. So it is a very central issue that we are discussing at the moment. I can guarantee the interpellants that we will be monitoring these issues. Thank you very much for a good discussion!
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-377	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me how the government and I define basic government services and whether it is my position that citizens throughout the country receive currency for the tax money when it comes to the basic state service. All government authorities have a service obligation in accordance with the Administrative Act. For some authorities, civic service is one of the core tasks of the activity. These authorities therefore have extensive contacts with citizens and have activities that require special offices for services to citizens and businesses. The Rural Committee writes in its report For Sweden's rural areas – a coherent policy for work, sustainable growth and welfare – that it is particularly important that some authorities have a local presence. It is about Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Pension Agency, the police and the Swedish Migration Agency. The State Service Centre also addresses the issue of state local service in the report A coherent organisation for local government services that was submitted to the Government on 22 March 2017. The digital service channels help to ensure equal service throughout the country. However, the local presence of the authorities is important for a Sweden that holds together and for those who cannot or do not want to take part in government services digitally to receive good service regardless of where in the country they live. The Government is therefore working to promote the development of citizen services throughout the country through both local presence and digital channels. The report of the Rural Committee and the views of the consultation bodies and the report of the State Service Centre are now being prepared in the Government Office. The government will then take a position on what measures need to be taken to ensure the basic state service.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-381	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In his summer speech in June 2016, the Prime Minister said that all of Sweden should live. The fact that the state is present throughout the country is important for a Sweden that stays together. At the same time, the Minister of Civil Affairs was commissioned to secure the entire country's access to basic government services. I recently read a government inquiry from 2009, See citizens – for better public service, which touched on this. There, the consultation bodies agree that all citizens should have equal access to services. However, the perception of what is equal access to service by the consultation bodies varies greatly. That's a little bit why I've written this interpellation. What is meant by that the whole of Sweden should live? I believe that almost all political parties say so. Yeah, actually, I think everybody does. What does equal service mean for all citizens regardless of where they live? Is an equivalent service possible at all? What is required to achieve this? The relocation of government agencies is good, but from a primary citizen's perspective it is the presence of municipal, regional and state services that are requested. It concerns proximity to an open civic office, to school, to primary care, to police and to post offices. These are basic security structures that we all call for. While a localised authority without a citizen's benefit in the neighbourhood does meet the need for new jobs, it is not certain that it will create equal access to services for the citizens of the country. This depends on whether you have a local presence with an open office or if you have a digitization that everyone can take part in. Localised authorities are likely to bring marginal benefits to those who already live in rural areas and who see the citizen-friendly state services gradually disappear. Rural residents often feel left out when government direct services disappear completely from smaller municipalities. The distance to service points in sparsely populated areas is considerably increased, as visiting offices are being pulled into several nearby municipalities at the same time. In particular, seven state authorities were mentioned in the previous investigation and are also relevant today and have frequent contacts with citizens. It is Arbetsförmedlingen, to some extent Central Student Support Board, Försäkringskassan, Kronofogden, Migrationsverket, the police and the Swedish Tax Agency. When these offices disappear, it makes it difficult for many to remain. These authorities must also make cost efficiency improvements. They will then try to have a dialogue with the citizens in different ways. When you visit the countryside you often hear older people say: There is not a bank where I can deposit my money, nor can I withdraw money there. Everything is digitized. We don't have access to broadband. I don't know how to use a computer. When the offices close to citizens disappear, it is not always that the technical solutions become relevant to those living in the country. So it becomes increasingly unclear: What does it mean to have a local presence? Is a government computer on display a local presence? Is a police office manned any day of the week local presence? How is a video meeting quality assured compared to a personal meeting?
i-5qSTSzSdDajjtY5tk2ucTG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for this interpellation! Sweden has been allowed to drift apart for too long. The regional divides have been allowed to grow in our country. This ultimately affects trust in the Swedish state and our public institutions. There are parts in our country where people feel that the state has abandoned them. Statskontoret's survey, which was carried out after an order from the government, showed that the Swedish state has a long wave of centralisation behind it. Activities have been centralised to Stockholm and other major cities. The physical presence of state authorities has decreased in much of the country, and that cannot be accepted. This is not acceptable, and this government has clearly indicated that the trend must be reversed. We have three different processes, all of which are about strengthening the state presence and getting a better spread of government jobs. The first process is about redeployment of authorities. In the debate, the term is used to refer to relocation. Our starting point, Madam President, is that Stockholm cannot be the main rule. The Swedish state must take into account the interests of the whole country, and then we must also ensure that there is a good distribution of government jobs. More cities must be given the opportunity to be places of business for the state authorities. We have therefore begun to relocate government agencies from Stockholm to other parts of the country. Two decisions have already been made. This applies to Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen, which will be moved to Karlstad from Stockholm. This also applies to the E-Health Agency, which is moved to Kalmar. More decisions follow. We will have to work with relocations of all or part of the government. Madam President, I would like The second part concerns the presence of the state service, which Lotta Finstorp also addresses in her interpellation. The issue is important, because if we want to digitise the public sector and make public sector activities more efficient, we must also ensure that everyone is supported. Everyone must have access to public services. Those who cannot use digital services need support. In addition, individuals and companies always need to have the possibility of physical meetings in service situations with the government and municipal sector. At present, we have a large number of service offices, which in practice are a cooperation between several authorities. It is about being there as a service point for the citizens. However, we need more service offices. Government service presence will need to increase. That is why, a few months ago, the Prime Minister commissioned me to work for this, as the interpellant also points out. We have started a process, and already there are two bases that we are working on. This is partly about the Rural Committee's report and partly about the basis that we have received from the State Service Centre. These are important contributions to the work. The Swedish state should help to keep Sweden together, not divide it. To be honest, it is not the kind of development we have behind us. A long period of centralisation must be broken. The third part of the policy area for a coherent public administration in the country is to develop a mechanism for authorities to take decisions on localisation issues. These decisions are now being taken independently of each other, which means that localities and regions in our country may suffer from multiple closures at the same time or during a coherent period. Here the government must take responsibility, and we are working to establish a system for this.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-401	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an important debate with a good speech! That the whole of Sweden should live and stick together is a serious issue. I think most parties are working on this and trying to find solutions. It's not really just about having access to public, municipal and regional services in the localities and smart digital solutions. More than 100 of Sweden's 290 municipalities have fewer than 11,000 inhabitants. Many are close to the city. I live in Flen municipality myself. We have 17 000 inhabitants and are one hour from Stockholm. Even if the Flen is considered a country, it's no problem for us. However, many others have long distances and may find it difficult to commute. Then it is important not to tax petrol so that people cannot get to work. So there are many parts to this. One thing I was thinking about is information for citizens living in the country about local newspaper offices. Actually, this is not a government issue. But many editorials have been closed, which makes it more difficult to monitor what is happening in society if, for example, you are not fully digitised. Large parts of Sweden lack media coverage of the local community. People find it difficult to get information about what is happening in the state service that is relocated. Locally guarded news has historically tied people together and has contributed to community. If we are to keep Sweden together, this is also an important part. This is not above all a political issue; it is more about how to solve the problems that exist. Many reforms have also strengthened rural areas. I am thinking of the liberalisation of pharmacies. The number of pharmacies has increased by 40%, which is also something that benefits rural and rural areas so that you can actually stay. It is therefore a question of many parts. It can be just as the minister says: When the authorities do not talk to each other about closing down local offices, it can be so unfortunate that several are closed down in the same place at the same time. However, there are also good examples. In Katrineholm there is the Pension Agency, Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan at the same counter at the library. This has been very successful. This is available in several places in Sweden. Perhaps the possibility of having local government service offices should be increased. I am also thinking of the health care centre or health choice reform in primary care. In Sörmland many more health centres have been added. They are privately driven, and they have grown up even in smaller towns. It is therefore important to see a whole in all parts if you want to get the whole of Sweden to live. People need to be able to live in order for it to become a living countryside. There is a need for a positive policy in all its aspects, and one must look at the whole. I mentioned earlier the fuel tax as an example. Public transport isn't everywhere. Although I live near Stockholm, I could not take the bus to the station, because there is no one. There will be a Stockholm perspective in some parts of the government's policy, which makes it very difficult to stay in the countryside. Even though there is a local cat works office in their own society, there are parts that make it impossible to stay. Being able to live and work in attractive environments is also about housing policy. It is important to look at all these parts. Because if you screw wrong in one of them, the whole of Sweden cannot live.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again, Lotta Finstorp, for your important contributions to the debate! Let me also say that I am pleased with the debate. After all, we have had debates with representatives of the Moderate Coalition Party who have questioned the relocation of government jobs and have talked about remuneration jobs. They have been critical of the government's entry and the Rural Committee's report. I think it is important, Madam President, that there are also moderate representatives in this House who stand up for the principle that government jobs need to be better disseminated and that there is also internal pressure within the Moderate Coalition Party at this state has a responsibility to hold Sweden together. Without extending the debate, let me remind the interpeller of something which, however, is not the theme of the interpellation. The experience we have of privatisations and commercialisations of joint services in Sweden cannot be said to have led to improvements for sparsely populated areas, rather the opposite. The driving forces of the market have strengthened urbanisation. Here the state needs to rethink and be a counterweight to such driving forces. The state needs to provide a jointly funded and regulated service for all citizens, regardless of where they live in the country. That is why we also have elements in rural policy that are about government subsidising parts of the commercial service. The market and market principles cannot apply here when it comes to people's access to commercial and public services. Here we have a responsibility to keep Sweden together. Madam President, I would like It is important that representatives of different parties are self-critical on this point. They must dare to admit that the market-liberal dogma that has been in force in our country for several decades regarding the organisation of welfare services, for example, has hardly led to us having kept society together and strengthened the service of those living in Swedish sparsely populated areas. However, it is another debate, and I will not prolong it. Let me get back to the question. This is important, and for this to happen a management policy is required that focuses on common interests that the Swedish state has. It is a management policy that has a group perspective. The decisions taken by individual authorities are logical. These are good decisions from the authority's individual perspective. But someone must also take responsibility for the whole, for the Swedish state, for the common interest of our authorities. There the government is now working on the processes that I tried to describe. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that these processes are a prerequisite for the digitisation of the public sector. If there is no support for those people who cannot use digital services, we will not have legitimacy for the digitisation of the public sector, and then we will lag behind. Madam President, I would like Yesterday I visited Hamburg, a very successful city working on industrial development, not least in the port of Hamburg, which is a leader in Europe. But I noticed that there too there is a struggle to have common structures for the digitisation of the public sector. It is still an urban area with a high concentration of people. If we are to succeed in our digitalization processes in the public administration, we need to work with physical presence, and the physical presence is currently not satisfactory. Here we also need to interact with the local government sector.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-420	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the debate. It is not black or white, and there are really no clear answers from any side on how to get the whole of Sweden to live. I think what the Minister says is important: the physical presence can never be completely phased out and replaced by a digital presence. If you look at smaller municipalities in sparsely populated areas, the demography also says a lot. There's a lot of older people living there. There are many who use digital solutions even if they are older, so you should not generalize there either. M one there must be a physical presence. You have to have humility when discussing these issues. It is easy to start in Stockholm and other metropolitan areas and try to find solutions. Many times creativity is very great in rural areas. You find new solutions. Perhaps the shopkeeper could have the service office in his country store instead. You could open up and free the countryside from quite a lot of touchsticks. I think that would be very interesting to look at. How can you make entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship bloom, so that younger people want to move to the countryside or move back there? They may remember their childhood positively and want their own children to grow up there. I absolutely believe that the whole of Sweden has the conditions for living and flourishing, but it is important that the policy in all parts thinks about how to open up instead of punishing with high taxes, for example with mileage taxes on transport. If you are in favour of it, you have to think about how it will affect Norrland, for example. Maybe it'll be that the jobs move south instead. Then you have not got all of Sweden to live.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-423	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Lotta Finstorp for a good discussion. I look forward to continuing to work on this issue with the Riksdag and its members. It is important that the Swedish state implements a change now and that we take greater responsibility for the state presence in the country.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-424	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what I think quality differences between municipalities depend on and whether I intend to take measures to ensure that already invested tax money around the country is used in the best possible way. The form of government states that the Swedish National Board is implemented through the municipal self-government, among other things. This means that there is an independent and, within certain limits, free authority for municipalities and county councils. In order for the municipal self-government to become a reality, there must be real room for manoeuvre for municipalities and county councils. Municipal self-government therefore necessarily involves variation between municipalities. Although municipalities and county councils are independent, the state and the municipal sector have a common responsibility for welfare. The Government is therefore constantly working to give municipalities and county councils the best possible conditions to develop, provide and finance an equivalent service offering with good quality. In this work, the value of local and regional autonomy must always be balanced against overall values such as socio-economic stability and equivalence. There are also significant differences between municipalities and county councils in terms of population, geographical size and age structure, for example. It is important that equal service can be provided to all residents regardless of their income and other structural conditions. This is why we have a system that aims to create a level playing field for all municipalities and county councils in the country. However, the conditions may differ when it comes to, for example, the possibility of recruiting employees with the right skills. In order to ensure that the purpose of the system is achieved, the Government decided in November 2016 to set up an investigation to carry out a general review of the cost compensation. In particular, the study will analyse whether major societal changes are sufficiently captured in the current system. In the coming decades, municipalities and county councils will face a number of challenges as a result of the development of society. The Government has therefore also set up an investigation in February to develop a strategy to strengthen the capacity of municipalities to fulfil their tasks and address the challenges. The study will also analyse the extent to which different structural measures can strengthen municipalities' ability to respond to societal developments. To make the best use of tax money is also about creating good conditions for business development and innovation. In this work, it is crucial that the professions in our activities have a prominent role. A long period of governance of our public sector in the wake of the new public management, has led in many places to large heavy control devices and a high administrative burden for many businesses. It is important here that governance in the public sector is developed to become more trust-based, so that we have efficient and innovative activities with high confidence among citizens. There are several other areas where the government is actively working to strengthen municipalities and county councils. For example, we have a special focus on digitalisation issues, we look at various possibilities for municipalities to enter into contractual cooperation, we have a plan to strengthen the state presence at local and regional level, we are preparing a new modern municipal law and we are reviewing the procurement framework. All these measures are taken with great respect for the municipal self-government but at the same time with a clear direction to seriously enable the municipal sector to meet social development with effective and sustainable tools.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-434	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Despite the fact that the Swedish economy is running like a train, municipal taxes are breaking a new record this year. Never before has the level of taxation been so high for ordinary income earners, and the wave of tax increases is only predicted to increase in strength. It is interesting to read what LO Chairman Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson writes. He recently wrote a historical debate article in Today's industry together with Leif Östling, Chairman of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. They pointed out that the tax has become too high and that the differences are too large. Östling writes and says: If you live in a municipality where you pay 34 - 35 kronor in municipal taxes and they close preschool and move the service, of course you feel abandoned by the community. I think that is a very important issue, which is actually linked to the state services in rural areas. It is often in the smaller municipalities, perhaps far from the growth centre and so on, that you have the highest taxes, and it is perhaps also there that a lot of the municipal service is closed down. Today it was interesting to read that LO also requires a ceiling for municipal tax. They're going to push that question at the S-Congress this weekend. A cap on municipal taxes would be one way of reducing the gaps. It then wants municipalities to be compensated with increased state subsidies. For my part, I think that we should instead have a policy for more jobs and a policy of affirmation for those who run businesses. SKL's chief economist says that it is very worrying that the biggest increase in tax levels has taken place in county councils. What is most worrying is that this increase has taken place despite the fact that the country is in a very strong boom and has a favourable demographic situation. What does the Minister say to the person who pays 34 - 35 kronor in municipal taxes and sees the service disappear and the care queues grow? Add the tax increases that the government is planning on income, petrol and so on – it is not difficult to understand the anger and bitterness. You get less and less value for your money and less and less money in your wallet. It's a breeding ground for discontent parties. In the near future, we've seen Trump. His success in the United States is partly out of this. Not infrequently, taxes are highest in those parts of the country where demographics and unemployment are major challenges. I use the word challenges instead of problems because there are solutions in politics if you dare to think outside the box and your ideological locks. We can reconnect to the whole of Sweden to live. For example, fuel tax increases strike directly at the person who has to take the car to work, where public transport is not available as an alternative. They strike straight into the private economy for those who struggle every day with long journeys to and from work. Tax as an instrument is a scourge when freedom of choice is lacking. Otherwise, tax as an instrument is one way we control. But there is no choice here for anyone who has to take the petrol car or the diesel car to work. Swedish motorists are already heavily overtaxed. Sixty-six per cent of the price of a tank of petrol is tax. This was in July 2016. It clearly strikes directly at those living in rural areas. Today I read that vehicle tax, which is the government's proposal, is becoming incredibly dramatic for those who have to take their car to work. A Golf will have a 315 percent tax increase and a 163% diesel Volvo combi. What does the minister say to the person who has to use the car for work and who has a municipal tax of 34 - 35 kronor?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-443	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for a very good discussion. Today we have had a debate on two key issues concerning trust in our society and how the public sector should contribute to keeping this society together. I believe that the issues raised by Lotta Finstorp are absolutely central to the development of administrative policy and therefore also to the social contract between the community and the citizens. I would like to thank you for a very good discussion.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-446	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for two very important debates, in which we have had a good dialogue on these issues. Before the debate was adjourned, I asked a question. It involved, among other things, those who pay 34 - 35 SEK per hundred in municipal taxes and who see services disappear and care queues grow, while the political organisation in the municipality sometimes also grows. It is often the smaller municipalities outside the metropolitan areas that have such high municipal taxes.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-449	It would be very interesting to hear what the Minister has to say about this. What do you say to these people? It is also interesting that LO today requires a ceiling on the level of municipal tax. It is possible that the Minister cannot precede the Congress of the S, but it would still be interesting to hear what he says about this. SKL, Sveriges Kommuner and Landsting, makes a financial report twice a year. There you look at tax power and then get a good basis when municipalities and county councils will do their budget planning and their priorities. In the latest report, SKL provides a population forecast, which is expected to increase by approximately 650 000 people by 2020. So it is an increase of more than half a million people. Municipalities face major challenges, but raising taxes further is not the right medicine. Rather, it is about getting more people to work. I am concerned about the way the government's policies beat – especially those living in sparsely populated areas, where the tax is already extremely high. This policy imposes additional burdens, which may mean that one chooses not to stay. Then it will be difficult, based on the debate we had earlier on that the whole of Sweden should live, because all of this is connected. I would like the Minister to comment on how to view it. I also have a question about municipal self-government and targeted state subsidies. Where is the limit of municipal self-government when, for example, the government decides on eyeglass allowances or free visits to the health centre for people over 85 years of age? The risk is that municipal self-government will be eroded by targeted state subsidies. At first they create cheers among the municipal councillors, but in year two, when these state subsidies may no longer exist, you have to cut down on a cost that you have not actually taken yourself but received from the state. I think that local self-government is a very important issue on which we could have our very own interpellation. But again, what is said to someone who lives in sparsely populated areas, who has 34 - 35 kronor in municipal taxes and now receives additional charges from the government?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-457	Mr President, I would like to What is said to those who live in a municipality that has great challenges and where taxes have been raised? Yes, it is said to those citizens that the time for tax reductions is over. It is said that it was wrong to prioritise tax cuts over eight years before welfare efforts. It is said that it was right to invest 10 billion extra in welfare and to give municipalities more resources. What would have happened in these municipalities, Mr President, if the government and parliament had not decided on these welfare billions? We have enormous needs in Swedish welfare. We have regional divides that have been allowed to grow. We have a development in which parts of the country are very negatively affected by the effects of urbanisation. This calls for proper political action, on the part of the state, to keep society together and not allow the gaps in it to grow. This requires that we invest in the common welfare and provide the municipalities with resources. These efforts must be financed, Mr President, because if these efforts are not made, the need in Sweden's municipalities to increase municipal taxes increases. Then the differences between municipalities are also increasing, so it is absolutely crucial that we put an end to tax-merger policy and instead provide more resources for welfare. We need more people working in welfare. We need to finance welfare. In addition to resource reinforcements, we need to work with the development of the governance of public welfare, which the municipalities are responsible for. We have had a development where we have received too many detailed, targeted state grants, which limit municipalities' room for manoeuvre and give municipalities less opportunities to work with efficiency improvements. We also have detailed control through regulations and regulations, which affect municipal room for manoeuvre. Legal obstacles stand in the way of municipal cooperation, which is an important part of the work to give even municipalities that have shrunk better opportunities to cope with the core task. Against this background, the government has begun a work that is summarised in additional reforms that are about investing more in general state grants and providing support to municipalities, not least in cooperation issues. That is why we also set up an investigation to extend the possibilities for contractual cooperation. Mr President, I would like to We stand up for the principle of equalisation between municipalities. When the moderate chairman of the Stockholm County Council attacks the system of municipal equalisation and makes claims that this system is unjust, as Stockholm is allowed to contribute to the welfare of the rest of Sweden, we choose to stand up for this model. We choose to strengthen the municipal levelling-up, and it is against this background that Håkan Sörman has been given the Government's task to develop a basis for strengthened and updated municipal levelling-up that also takes into account the new societal changes that entail costs for the municipalities. We therefore need to add more resources to the municipalities. We need to finance these investments. We need to stand up for the balance between our municipalities, in order to reduce the gaps. We also need to give municipalities better opportunities to operate. Then it is not more detailed control or more market-oriented rules that are required, but what is required is trust in the relationship between Sweden and Sweden's municipalities and county councils. It requires trust between the state of Sweden and all the professions that make welfare possible in our municipalities and county councils.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-466	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your speech. What is needed in Sweden is more people paying taxes. The Tax Committee was recently on a committee trip to Kenya, where 20 percent of the population pays taxes and where the Swedish Tax Agency is doing a great job by helping to build a tax system. The problem is to get people to pay taxes and see what value they then get for the money. When you raise taxes very municipal and county councils, and queues remain or still remain in place, for example for health care, the risk is that it reduces people's tendency to work overtime, work a little extra and educate themselves. It's a dangerous development, I think, when it gets that way. It is not just income tax, but it comes to a host of other taxes. Now the government is talking about airline tax. I live near Skavsta. It is 1 100 jobs that will be directly affected if this low-cost airport will reduce its share of passengers, because those who leave there are very sensitive to if it is, as you say, a few more crowns. But it also inhibits the development of our county. There is great concern in Nyköping Municipality that these people will be unemployed. Tax as an instrument can be effective in many ways, as we talked about earlier in the debate. But they must have a purpose. Then I think that an environmental tax, the airline tax, is not designed like that. There are no incentives for people to take the train to Thailand – it's a bit difficult over the seas. And there is no incentive for airlines to find better fuel, for example. If tax is to be a good instrument, there must be options to choose from for the individual.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-473	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to thank Lotta Finstorp once again for a good discussion, where important aspects of public Sweden and our ability to finance the common welfare services have been discussed. Although during the debate we have touched on many different areas, which are the latest aviation tax, it is still important that we focus on what conditions we give to Kommunsverige. And this debate is needed. We need to take more measures that give municipalities greater room for manoeuvre and also provide more resources for municipalities so that welfare can be financed. It is the only way, if we are to maintain equivalence in Swedish welfare, that we do not allow regional divides to grow. Many thanks for a good and important discussion!
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-476	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take with regard to the licensing processes for small hydroelectric power so that they are simplified and implemented at more reasonable costs. Sten Bergheden has asked me why, despite announcements and the agreement on energy policy, I have not yet implemented a simplification of the licensing processes for small-scale hydropower. Among other things, the Energy Agreement states that Sweden must have modern environmental requirements for hydropower. The agreement also states that the assessment system should be designed in a way that does not become unduly administratively and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit sought. Within the Government Office, work is under way to develop a draft constitution drawn up on the basis of the Energy Agreement. A future proposal for water operations will deal with proposals implementing the amendments to the hydroelectric test system resulting from the Energy Agreement. Of course, I cannot precede the ongoing process or today give an exact time when the government intends to return to Parliament on the matter, but my hope is that a Council of Law referral can be decided before the summer.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-479	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for the answer to my interpellation! The debate on small hydro power has been quite intense for a number of years. The licensing processes for obtaining the permits required are extensive in our authorities and, as I said, are in danger of hitting those who hold small hydropower very hard. It is often argued from the government and our authorities that the permits are required as a result of binding directives from the EU. When you check it with the European Commission, it seems to be a misconception from the Swedish side that owners of small-scale existing hydropower should be forced to be subjected to this extensive process, with the resulting costs. The agreement highlights a review of the permit processes as important – something that still has not led the government to act very quickly. There are provisions that the reviews carried out should take more account of the individual's interests and the financial consequences of the permit testing regarding hydropower weighed against the environmental benefit. A number of announcements have also been made in this House. If I have not misunderstood, some countries have excluded small-scale hydropower, even though they are in the European Union. In that case, it should be the same conditions for Sweden. Different assessments are made in different places around the country from our county boards, and then we have the Land and Environment Court making its decisions. There are also a number of people in our agencies who are extremely linked to these activities. In river rescue associations and the like there are government officials who have been very mediated. We have a situation in which many landowners who for a long time, perhaps for generations, have had small-scale hydropower on their land are suddenly faced with completely new facts. That's why we've set these interpellations. What are these measures, and is it the case that the Minister wants to take measures to simplify small-scale hydropower? If not, it is all right if she announces that she thinks it should be an extensive process and that it should be made more difficult and expensive for those with small hydro power to operate it. It would be good to have a little more clarification. Although the Minister cannot precede the investigation itself, the Minister may well have an idea of the direction in which she would like to go.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-488	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which is very similar to the answers we have received in the past on this issue! Why we stand here today is, once again, that we have been clear on the part of the Riksdag that we want a change in the permit processes. We want to facilitate the decision-making process for small-scale hydroelectric plants. We have also reached an energy agreement that clearly indicates that this should be done. Then we come to the problem itself, Mr President, and that is that the government will come back with a proposal on how the changes could look and ensure that they are put into practice. And then it'll take a lot of time, a lot of time. We therefore put these interpellations in order to check how far the process has progressed. In the last interpellation debate, the Minister said that hopefully the proposal would land this summer, and now we are almost there by summer. Surely the Minister must now have gone further in his precision and be able to say more precisely when it is time to put the proposal on our table. We have a number of owners of small-scale hydroelectric power plants around the country who are worried. Hydroelectric power plants are being shut down while new permit processes are under way, and that is expensive. The cost of a new environmental test can be up to a million for a small power plant that may not produce so much electricity but still has a production running that gives some kind of net to the users. Cultural environments and many other tourist activities are also being created around hydroelectric plants. Mr President, I would like to This is the great sacrifice. During the time that we are waiting for the government, governed by the Green Party on this issue, to give us an answer and a change is being put down these hydroelectric plants. Then, perhaps, when some form of simplification comes, they have already had to phase out their activities. It is not fair for rural areas, so one should of course say that one should wait for the investigation and evaluation to arrive before proceeding with the process. Mr President, I would like to The government has instruments for this. In the regulatory letters you can tell the county boards what to do, so they can be used. You can also use the budget to tell you how you want to prioritise their activities. The question is whether these instruments are being used to ensure that no more small-scale hydroelectric plants are being threatened, but actually what has been decided in both the Riksdag and the Energy Agreement that we want a new permit test. This will not force small-scale power plants over the edge and lead to a soot death through closures that may not even improve the environment. I have a question for the Minister. The Minister talks about modern environmental requirements in the assessment of hydropower. What are modern environmental requirements for small-scale hydroelectric plants? It would be good if the Minister could clarify that.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-497	Mr President, I would like to Here it sounds like I've written the energy agreement. It might have been nice, but it's not like that. The energy agreement is precisely an agreement that has been negotiated between several parties and has been decided jointly. There seems to be reason to repeat what it contains. It says this when it comes to small-scale hydropower: Sweden must comply with EU law and its requirements for water operations. Sweden must have modern environmental requirements on Swedish hydropower but where the testing system is designed in a way so that it does not become unnecessarily administrative and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit sought. The rules for the re-evaluation of water activities, such as hydroelectric power stations and dams, should be simplified as far as possible, taking into account the need to ensure sustainable development where our water resources cannot be considered as any resource. That is what will be covered in the bill that I will present to Parliament. It is the same answer that I have given in the past for the simple reason that I have been asked the same questions and the work is still going on. These are complex issues, and in order for individuals to have the stable conditions that are needed, it is important that it be solidly worked out and clear. There are different opinions about the urgency of the matter. In Parliament, it is clear that there is an urgent need. Representatives of the organisations that own small hydropower clearly tell the government not to rush the work so that it becomes a haste. They have specifically suggested that we wait until after the summer and work through it even more. However, since we have a solid work and a dialogue process made by the Maritime and Water Authority as a basis, we believe that we will be able to complete a legislative referral before the summer. We have not worked slowly, but there is solid work behind this. In politics it is often the case that perception and reality differ widely between different bodies. When I meet representatives of these interests, they clearly say that the discussion has taken many steps forward. Now, for the first time, they sit at the same table and discuss these issues in the dialogues held by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. A common picture of reality has been developed here which can provide a good basis for finding a regulation of this that is realistic from an environmental, economic and practical point of view. We also have an idea of a financing solution, and it will also come into place. The rules and funding should of course go hand in hand so that they can start to be realized at the same time. I have good hopes for this.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-505	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the answer, but I am not sure that many small hydropower holders around the country were so much calmer about it. I don't know which holders the minister has met. But I think I have met a large proportion of the holders in my county of Värmland, and I have not met anyone who is not extremely concerned by the situation. They face many difficult decisions and in many situations receive different answers from different parts of the authorities based on their environmental assessments of hydropower. If you continue with the business, there will be consequences on the one hand; if you remove it, there will be consequences on the other. What perplexes, surprises and understandably upsets quite a few people is that it is different in different parts of our country but, above all, when reference is made to EU legislation, it is radically different how different authorities in different EU countries interpret the laws. I assume that the Minister has seen the images and debates circulating in the media and on the Internet. We note that the Irish interpretation of the EU Water Directive is a fraction of the Swedish one, which is so detailed that it is difficult to take part in the whole, to understand it and to reconcile it. For a long time now we have small-scale hydropower, and it is an important part of Swedish energy production. However, it does not exploit all our rivers and rivers in our country, and I am convinced that we can have a good environment while protecting small-scale hydropower. It is also an energy source that creates clean, good and important energy for Swedish society. We will need this given that there are forces in our society that are pushing for us to radically reduce other energy sources that are clean in terms of CO2 emissions and things that affect global warming. I appeal to the Minister to do everything she can to ensure that hydroelectric power is protected as best as possible in environmental tests. You should do it well and be clear about the information. Above all, it is important that we have the same rules of play as the other EU countries. Then we will have the same assessment throughout our country, and when reference is made to EU rules they apply in the same way in Sweden as in other EU countries.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-512	Mr President, I would like to I did not get an answer to what the Minister means by modern environmental testing or modern environmental requirements for hydropower. I would have liked to know how the Minister views this. As the Minister said, it is an agreement, and I am quite sure that the Green Party was on it. It was managed and is also working on some of this. It is not just about working on one part of the agreement, but about including what it means, namely that you should simplify as far as possible and as quickly as possible to facilitate bureaucracy and costs around it. I assume that the Minister and the Government will do so, and I expect it to come back more precisely about when it will enter into force. You've waited long enough. The interesting thing is that the minister said you don't rush the work. No, but the closure of small-scale water production and the licensing process are being speeded up. That part has been speeded up during the process. I have with me an investigation from the parliamentary investigation service that lifts out some of what has been invested in lately to get even more momentum on the permit trial out there. I think the minister is well at home in this part, but I'm going to read inside: 中 Strengthened work with water operations in 2017. In the 2017 regulatory letter, condition 13, to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, the Government has made a special effort on water activities: SEK 25 000 000 will be used for reinforced work with guidance, supervision, review and review of water activities as well as restoration and biological restoration within the framework of the water management programme. Of these, a maximum of SEK 20 000 000 may be distributed to the County Administrative Boards for reinforced work on monitoring, review and review of water activities according to the distribution key decided by the Maritime and Water Authority in consultation with the County Administrative Boards. ..................................................... As I understand it, the government has, while sitting and investigating what to do to make things easier, sent in even more money to kick-start the process in the countryside and really have time to try as many as possible before the investigation is completed. It is to use its ability to regulate both the county boards and the Maritime and Water Authority in such a way that you really get as much effect as you want. Meanwhile, the government and the minister are sitting in the chamber in Rosenbad waiting for the closure of small-scale hydroelectric power. You sit and investigate how to facilitate that part when the hydropower is already exhausted and you are finished. This is serious, and it is clear that it does not have the ambition to help but rather intends to punish further. This is remarkable. Mr President, I would like to I will return to the questions: When will we receive answers? What time will this be on the table? It is approaching some kind of date now to get this out. Why has the money been increased to continue with this part? I assume the Minister has a good answer to that. This is done during the closure of small hydroelectric power. The government certainly does not rush the investigation work. On the other hand, efforts are being made to close down small-scale hydroelectric plants.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-520	Mr President, I would like to I must say that it is a vulgar interpretation of how we work. There is a clear difference. Both the government and previous governments have increased the funding of the county administrative boards for the work on the state of our waters as the requirements to ensure that the state of the waters is good. It was clear during the previous government that the purpose of the money was to increase the speed of the state of the small hydro power sector. We've received clear signals. Among other things, there have been criticisms that the application across the country was uneven. We responded by strengthening the permit guidance. Other parts of the permit work around watercourses also need to be strengthened. We have not said, as the honourable Member shows, that the money is aimed at increasing the rate of authorisation, unlike the previous government, which had this as a clearly stated purpose in the budget presented. We have not given such an assignment to the county administrative boards. I have had a clear dialogue with the governors during this time. My answer is very clear: I will present a bill to Parliament. It will meet what we have agreed in the Energy Agreement. There will be answers to the detailed questions asked, and I will not anticipate that process. Of course, I will in no way use a power that I do not have as a minister and urge or govern the authorities so that they do not comply with the laws of this House. It would be using the power I have in a terrible way. It is as clear as before that, of course, I will not do this.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-526	Mr President, I would like to We do not require the Minister to pre-empt proceedings, but it is no secret that the Minister belongs to a party that has very clearly stated that it wants more review and higher demands. If you push it at one end while waiting to hear about the rest, it will be, as my colleague Sten Bergheden said, a situation in which, while the government's announcement is delayed, there will be closures and people who end up in very difficult situations. Furthermore, depending on the outcome of the investigation, they risk spending money on measures that may not be necessary. It is therefore extremely important for the government to give urgent information on these issues, rather than tomorrow, before pushing for further reconsiderations. Landowners and owners of small-scale power are placed in situations that no one wants, especially if they believe in rural areas and want a living countryside that is not just a museum but where activities are developed and businesses are run. This is what we need. If you are to live and work in rural areas and if it is to develop, it must be a productive area that we develop and that we live on and live with. There, hydropower is a small but important part for a lot of people.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-530	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for confirming that you are investing in the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management! I read out what's in the regulatory letter. I assume that if you have used the regulation letter and the economy in the budget you have a process where you want something to happen out there with the money. This is a clear signal, because it says: a maximum of SEK 20 000 000 may be allocated to the County Administrative Boards for enhanced work on monitoring, testing and re-evaluation of water activities according to the key decided by the Maritime and Water Authority in consultation with the County Administrative Boards. ..................................................... It has sent out SEK 20 million with a clear directive that you want something done. We in the countryside are now seeing what is happening. I return to my first question, Mr President: what does the Minister mean in his response to modern environmental requirements? Modern environmental requirements in these old cultural environments – what does that mean in concrete terms? What is the idea behind having modern environmental requirements in cultural environments that have been ape a whole new environment for 200-300 years? The Minister says we should work on something called modern environmental requirements. I am aware that the agreement states, but what does the Minister think modern environmental requirements mean in this context? It would be interesting to know. I would also like to have a date when we get this on our table. We do not have to have these interpellation debates in the future if the government can deliver that answer at some point in time in order to give only answers to interpellations.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-536	Mr President, I would like to In our part of the country we say, Hia! And it is time for Members to do so. There has been intensive work in the Government Office from the day after the Energy Agreement was concluded to deliver all parts of the Energy Agreement. This is one thing. The definition of modern environmental requirements comes from there. What that means will be stated in the bill. I will not anticipate that process. It doesn't matter to a government minister when you're planning a bill. However, I am a little worried when I hear so clearly party representatives here questioning the energy agreement and what is agreed on there. This is undermined when it is said that this may not really apply. We should also know that we are in another part of this process under scrutiny from the European Commission, which questions whether we have sufficient leave to appeal in these parts of Sweden. I believe that we will be able to meet this in the bill, and so must we. I'll give you some clarification. County administrative boards' work with water activities is much broader than just permit testing of small-scale hydropower. The government has contributed to the broad work with water activities. The previous government, on the other hand, gave specified money to speed up the licensing process for small-scale hydropower with the aim of increasing the number of permits. That was very clear. We have reinforced the work on permits for water operations. It is, among other things, related to increased requirements for groundwater protection and is a much broader work than that. It is by no means an indicator that I would abuse my role as a minister and anticipate the bill. We are working very hard to put a good bill on Parliament's table.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-541	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me why I want to reduce the influence of landowners and hunters and what measures I intend to take to restore the balance in the game management delegations so that landowners and hunters who manage the game are not under-represented. Åsa Coenraads has asked me what further measures I intend to take to strengthen local anchoring in the game management and whether I intend to follow up and further adjust the local game management if landowners, forest owners and hunters no longer have confidence in the legislator's decision. The questions that have been asked concern the same subject area, which leads me to give a comprehensive answer. The Government Office has evaluated the regional wildlife management delegations, including through surveys. All members and county boards concerned have had the opportunity to comment on the work of delegations. The Government Office also held meetings with the interest groups represented in the delegations. As regards the composition of delegations, the Government has concluded that the interests of nature conservation and local business and tourism need to be strengthened. The government has therefore decided to amend the Regulation on the Wildlife Management Delegations so that the environmental and conservation organisations are represented by another member and the local nature and ecotourism companies by one member. The aim is, among other things, to strengthen the local anchoring of game management. The Government will monitor the work of the game management delegations and, if necessary, further adjust the representation of different interests in the delegations.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-547	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The answer clearly shows that there has been dialogue in this process. But it is clear that it is the government's will to include two more representatives in these game management missions. My question is quite clear: is the aim of strengthening local anchoring? Yeah, it's a little fuzzy. Mr President, I would like to What was the problem with the old composition of these wildlife management missions? What problems were identified by the government, which required the extension of the wildlife management delegations with two additional representatives from nature conservation and ecotourism? What will they add to these activities that could not be met by the previous delegations? Has any form of evaluation or anything else been done to achieve this? Or did the Minister and the government think it would be nice if more people could be included in these delegations and have their say? Then the next step will come. The people who sit there guard the interests of both hunters and landowners. Wildlife damage and forest damage may occur. It may be fields that can be destroyed by wild boars and many other things. Economic values are at stake. Mr President, I would like to The question then is: will the additional representatives who will now be part of these delegations also provide financial support and assistance? If it turns out that for some reason you want to increase a game strain, are you also prepared to go in from the government or from someone else and increase the compensation and other things for those affected? Otherwise, it is actually the case that people, who do not really have to do with these financial commitments, should be brought in to govern other people's ownership and game conservation. If so, it is the beginning of a restriction of ownership. Then my question is: is it prepared to take the consequences of the decisions that are then made to extend some species of game or change something that then affects landowners and hunters economically so that they suffer financial damage from it?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-553	Mr President, I would like to I have put an interpellation to the Minister for the Environment because she is responsible for precisely the administrative delegations. My interpellation is about the local anchoring of decisions and the purpose of the game management delegations. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. As the Minister has chosen to give a single answer to my interpellation and to Sten Bergheden's interpellation, the answer to our two interpellations was unfortunately very short. I think the Minister has not really responded to my interpellation. I have previously asked the Minister written questions about how the Government views the future of wildlife management delegations. Even then, the answers have been vague. It may be that I have been a little unclear in my questions. That is why I have put this interpellation to the Minister, so that we have the opportunity to debate the issue here and now instead. I think that's particularly important. During the time of the Alliance, we set up the Wildlife Management Delegations with the aim of anchoring decisions closer to those they really touch upon. The delegations then consisted of those who use the land and political elected representatives from county councils or regions. Then came some from various interest groups. The total group was well balanced and has worked quite well in most parts of Sweden. Unfortunately, in some places it doesn't work very well. One place where it does not work so well is in Västmanland, from which I come, where all representatives from nature conservation interests have chosen to drop out of the delegation long ago. The Alliance government wanted to address these issues of hunting and game conservation. We did that by adding something that we called the Hunting Act investigation. Unfortunately, this government chose to close that investigation before it was completed. I'm sorry to hear that. There were quite a few of us waiting for something to come out of this investigation that was also in touch with the wildlife management delegations. Your government chose to set up an investigation into the wildlife management delegations, and then there were several of us who became very hopeful. We hoped that something would come from the investigation that would increase the local anchoring. Unfortunately, we were very disappointed when the decision came from the government earlier this spring to just change the composition of the delegations and not look at the anchoring process or the decision-making process. We were also surprised that the long investigation that was still being carried out resulted in the rather simple task of simply adding more people to the delegations – and changing the proportions in them. The interest in nature conservation was increased and the land and forest use side decreased. We think it is very strange that there is a lack of proportion at the moment. It becomes a way of looking at nature from the outside rather than using it, which is good for nature and wildlife as well as people. The group responsible for managing the game will be very under-represented in delegations. My question to the Minister is therefore still what further steps she intends to take to strengthen precisely the local anchoring of the decisions made by delegations.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-562	Mr President, I would like to It will be a bit of a game of words here, that some types of representatives would be a little more local and a little more authentic and represent people a little more than others. I find it very unfortunate. As I said, we have done a solid job with surveys and meetings. There is also research on the composition of delegations – raw data that we have access to. Among other things, the type of problem mentioned here has come to light, such as the fact that some delegations have worked well, while others have had huge problems. Some associations have also chosen to drop out completely. It led to changes. Delegations shall make overall decisions and have local knowledge of forests, land and wildlife. In this way, they will assist the experts who make the more precise decisions. That is why we must find representativeness, and that is obviously a difficult issue. One task we have access to, however, are the raw data that come from Luleå University of Technology and researcher Simon Matti. He interviewed 189 members of delegations and asked how they identified themselves. It turned out that 61 percent answered that they identify themselves as hunters. In the general population, the same group consists of 3%. It shows a very oblique representation in these groups. In order to strengthen local anchoring and knowledge of forests and land, the Government therefore decided to increase the representation of nature conservation and tourist guides. It is not the case that a few people own the game management, but it is really something we should do together. It is certainly not only landowners and hunters who are directly concerned by game management issues, but it is a much larger group. Delegations have the task of catching up on this, and with this reinforcement we hope to achieve it. We will of course follow the work and see if it has had that effect. If it does not, we must take further action.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-567	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware of the last thing the Minister said, namely that it will evaluate and see if there is a need to change this if it does not work. When does that evaluation come? Has it been added to the trial process, as we might call it, to add a number of extras to our wildlife missions? This means that, within a few years, there will be a test of whether or not this works and whether it really follows up. Otherwise, the questions I asked remain. What was the problem with the old appointment? What was missing, which was so crucial and which these particular interests would add? The next question will also be whether there are any other interests that need to be included in the group – and above all whether there are any interests that are not to be included in the group. Is there any limitation on this, or has the Minister and the Government intend to add more special interests, environmental organisations and other things that may seem to, sit with and discuss which species of game we should have? At the same time, landowners and hunters are allowed to stand for the economic part when crops are eaten up and plants and stuff are taken and you have to have a game trunk that is at a reasonable level. What's the heaviest weight? Is it the economic pieces for the landowners and hunters, or are they the opinions of the others – those who have no costs to bear, but only assets to get if they can increase on guidance and other things around? How does the government intend to allocate the cost if it turns out that it wants to increase or decrease tribes in different parts that affect the economy? That's one of the primary issues. Somewhere, however, people are sitting in delegations to be able to regulate and have a game strain that works well out there. It is strange that one can only place special interests other than those that have an economic sense of what is happening and let them push it in another direction while the others stand for the violins if it goes wrong. I would like to hear some sort of line of thought there, Mr President. What if it now turns out that delegations are heading in the wrong direction because of this? And is it any more organization or interest to enter, at the expense of the interests of landowners and hunters?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-571	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Minister misses the case a little in his speech. In the first place, the problem is not really who is part of the delegation, but what you do and what the purpose of the delegation is – what it should do. In a written question, to which I have unfortunately not yet received an answer, I have asked further questions on this particular point. The answer to the written question has been delayed for several weeks, but hopefully I will receive an answer by tomorrow. The Minister says that the new distribution in game management delegations will be greatly improved by increasing conservation interests. My question is, then, what is the second part of this, but we will wait until tomorrow. Then we may meet in an interpellation debate about it in a few weeks' time. However, I continue to think a little about the local anchoring of game management issues. In the reply I received from the Minister for the Environment to this particular interpellation, the Minister for the Environment said: I then think about who it is you strengthen the anchoring for, because it is obviously not for the people who live and use the land but perhaps more for the people who live in the cities and go out to the countryside to look at things and enjoy the spruces, pine trees and game of prey that are there. Then the management tank won't work. The Minister therefore says that the purpose is, among other things, to strengthen local anchoring. What does the government really think the other thing would be, in addition to that?
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-575	Mr President, I would like to Let us get back to what it is the game management delegations are doing. They are bodies that will work for collaboration on issues related to the game management within the counties. They take comprehensive guidelines and support the experts who later make the decisions. If I have understood correctly the bourgeois government which instituted this, the idea is that people who know forest and land can have something to add to the quality of government decisions. That's wise, isn't it? Then one should find a representation for such a group. In these groups there are documented problems in the dynamics – and a very clear bias in representation, which in no way corresponds to the general public. This led to a change in representation. Since it is called into question what is local anchoring, it may well be useful to clarify that it is the regional bodies of nature conservation organisations that are given this opportunity. If there is any fear of Stockholm in this, then I can reassure you: this is not the case, but it is the regional bodies within the conservation organisations that have the opportunity to appoint representatives, based on the basic idea of having knowledge of the geographical area in question. We will also give guidance to the authorities that the same applies, of course, to the nature guide companies. What fascinates me in the debate here is the fact that it so clearly values the ability of different groups to represent and add knowledge in this work and also values different companies in rural areas as different important in a very clear way. I find it very difficult to follow that logic. Of course, it is important that we have both agriculture and forestry companies. Hunting is also an important part of the tourism industry. But in game management, which are complex issues, we obviously also need to have interest in nature conservation, among other things in order for the objectives of regulations that have been decided here in Parliament to become a reality. In this work, conservation organisations have an important role to play. At least that's my ambition. I am not entirely sure that this is a common ambition in this work. Representation is a complex issue, and I do not say that I know exactly what is a perfect representation in any group, nor in the game management delegations. However, we have been able to note that the composition of the bourgeois government landed in the fact that 61 per cent of the representatives are hunters. The corresponding figure for the public is 3%. Then you are not close to representation, at least not according to the most commonly used definition. Normally we think that representation is about matching the Swedish population as a whole. That was not the case, and so there was reason to change the composition.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-583	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for an attempt at an answer, although I am not satisfied. I think that if there are any who can both forest and land, it is our landowners and hunters who dagl again conduct their activities out there and therefore are very well-informed when it comes to managing our game tribes. Nor, of course, is there any fear of Stockholm, but it is more a fear of the government's way of constantly attacking property rights and hunting in Sweden. This may, of course, be another step in trying to change, restrict and simply destroy much of the activity that currently operates in rural areas. There may not be a need for a lot of new regulations and new ideas that go completely against how you have worked in the past. Mr President, I would like to I have a question about the surveys that have been carried out. Has the survey been carried out among all the landowners in one area and asked how the game delegation has functioned, whether you have had the right game strains and everything, or who has been asked in this survey? Have people affected by our game tribes been asked, that is, once again landowners, hunters, those who manage this practical thing out there, or what groups have been asked? Perhaps it would be useful to clarify that. With this being my last speech, I should like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. I take note of what the Minister said in a recital, namely that it will review this and make an evaluation. I look forward to that evaluation taking place quite quickly, Mr President – perhaps tomorrow.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-587	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the clarification on certain issues. However, I find it sad that what the Minister is saying is that it is simply showing a particular interest in and taking decisions that affect certain special interests in society, and it is those special interests that more view nature as a museum than wanting to manage and use what we have. We have a positive trend in society today, where our game tribes are growing. But it also means that they need to be managed even more carefully, and if this representation in the wildlife management delegations is reduced, we will see increased damage to forests and land. With increased damage, there will also be increased costs for those who own and use the land, which is a bit inconvenient because the government wants to appear rural-friendly, including by developing a food strategy that we will be dealing with in this House and a few weeks. It also restricts property rights, and I find this particularly worrying. I would regret to say that the decision taken by the government to change the game management delegations is a step towards pseudo-democracy and direct rural hostility. I very much hope that the Minister will monitor the matter closely and ensure that measures are taken so that we can have an increased opportunity to be involved in decisions concerning one's own forest and land, while at the same time all of us will be able to enjoy the right of public access and animals in forests and nature.
i-d08ad5cf168f5b07-591	Mr President, I would like to This decision has obviously raised a number of concerns that go very far beyond the question of representation in the game management delegations. Perhaps new regulations were hidden there too? Hiding reductions there? Are there any to be thrown out of the delegations? Were new rules, other types of decisions and changes in the management of the game hidden? These are issues that are not at all relevant in this decision. There is also a contempt for certain parts of our civil society, for the tourism industry and its ability to have knowledge of forest and land and the local economy in rural areas. It is very clear that some represent the countryside a little better than others. We have decided that there will be more representatives in the Wildlife Management Delegations, more local representatives who know forest and land and who carry out nutrition in the forest and land. They will sit with others who also know these questions – our landowners, forest owners and hunters – to discuss this. I do not make any evaluation or think that anyone knows this less, and I am strongly opposed to the description of civil society that is being made here. I see that civil society, as well as private interests in the tourism, land, agriculture and forest management industries, have much to contribute to the game management and that it is necessary to cooperate.
