i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-4	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved before we start debating this committee initiative. There is a proposal for a notice to the government regarding a supplementary directive to an already ongoing study on labour market policy and the Public Employment Service. The proposal is to investigate how Arbetsförmedlingen's activities can be closed down and privatised. The origin of the proposal comes from the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, and this has been followed by the other bourgeois parties. The reason for the proposal is said to be that integration and matching do not work, that Arbetsförmedlingen has a low level of trust, that the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen does not work and that it has had plenty of time to reverse the development without succeeding. It may be appropriate, Madam President, to have a little history lesson. During eight years with moderate labour ministers, between 2006 and 2014, the Moderates governed both ministries and labour market policies. As a result, an authority, the Public Employment Service, was severely neglected in its development work. This also led to less contacts with employers. The dialogue with the government, i.e. between the government and the ministry, broke. Above all, the Moderates ensured that the Employment Service was burdened with excessive detail management that made the intermediaries stuck in bureaucracy and administration. The moderate Minister for Labour made sure to break the collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities. A very strong distrust grew among the Arbetsförmedlingen staff towards the management. We remember how the Moderates boasted when they appointed the then Director General. Well, that's when new winds were supposed to blow. But what was the result? Labour market policy failed and, above all, more people became unemployed. It went so badly that the Director-General appointed by the Moderate Government was deposed. Not only that, they also had to replace the Chairman of the Board of the Employment Service. And that, too, was not enough, Madam President, but the then Prime Minister, Mr Reinfeldt, replaced the Minister for Labour, who had to leave. After her came Elisabeth Svantesson, who is today Vice-Chairman of the Labour Market Committee. All of this led to a sharp decline in the confidence of the Public Employment Service. I must say this: everyone in this House knows that an authority such as the Employment Service is governed by law, regulation and regulatory letters. So it is politicians who set rules and frameworks for an authority. We now know that when Arbetsförmedlingen was governed by the moderate Minister for Labour and moderate labour market policy, this led to worse results. This is the reason for the negative trend. But now, in the opposition, you blame the Employment Service and those who are employed there, despite the fact that it is politics and labour market policy that governs. The authorities must do as the government and parliament have decided. So did they during your eight years. What are you doing now? Well, now you're blaming Arbetsförmedlingen. It does not feel funny, Madam President, to have to say it, but I still have to do it: I think this is really cowardly. After the 2014 elections, the Social Democratic-led government had to start cleaning after the moderate debacle. The current Director-General had to start a renewal journey with the Agency, and the entire staff is involved. This is done to correct old shortcomings and change the old culture. After pressure from the opposition, the government also appointed an investigation, led by Cecilia Fahlberg. The investigation will analyse the state's commitments and how the Public Employment Service's mandate can be designed to contribute as effectively as possible to the smooth functioning of the labour market. With this committee initiative, you are breaking open doors. Investigation is already underway. You want to privatise Arbetsförmedlingen's business. But I wonder if Niklas Wykman and the rest of the House remember what it was like with all the companies doing business with the Public Employment Service. In 2014, there were 1 115 private businesses – and this after the Public Employment Service had already started cleaning the whole. What about Phase 3? What about Jobbolaget? What about the massive criticism that existed when external, private actors came in and had passedivated the unemployed? Many of the private people came in and made a lot of money without being able to report any results that helped the unemployed. What about the starters? They were sawed by the National Audit Office along the heel tendons, if the Madam Speaker excuses the expression. Money ran out, and it didn't really work. Imagine that Moderates' solution always involves privatising public activities! Of course, we are talking about huge sums of money that can be transferred from taxpayers to private pockets. No, labour market policy is not something that we in the government parties or the Left want to hand over entirely to the so-called market or private companies. Labour market policy is a national matter, in which the state has its given responsibility. Today, the Public Employment Service performs better than during the Moderate government and leadership. However, we are not satisfied yet. The government has begun work to give intermediaries less regulatory hassle, reduced bureaucracy and let professionals be pros. They are now showing better results, despite a great effort on the establishment side. If the authorities are given better tools and more opportunities to do what works properly, results and achievements will also be increased. Madam President, I would like The Public Employment Service certainly has a long way to go to become an effective and well-functioning authority. However, to say that the Authority has had plenty of time to try to reverse developments without succeeding, as you do at your edge, is not just unserious and grossly misleading simplification. It is, in fact, a flagrant example of a fact-resistant argumentation technique that is spreading, unfortunately even in the political discussion.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-20	Madam President, I would like In June 2016, the Government decided to set up a study on the role and limits of labour market policy and the Employment Service's mission. Although the situation has improved in recent years, we saw signs that the labour market was not working as we would like. We noted that we are facing a two-tier labour market, where demand for labour is strong, but unemployment remains high in certain groups that find it difficult to gain a foothold in the labour market. Madam President, I would like In order to achieve a well-functioning labour market, we need to decide what the Public Employment Service's mission will be in the future. We will do so on the basis of a thorough and well-thought-out basis. The study will analyse and propose ways in which labour market policies can be made more effective and clearer. It will also highlight how the use of external suppliers can contribute to a well-functioning labour market. The parts of the assignment concerning, among other things, external suppliers must be reported in a few months' time, no later than 31 October 2017. Madam President, I would like The Green Party believes it is important to have the investigator finish his work and make his suggestions for improvements. It was not that long ago that the Employment Service was subjected to a labour market policy that was not so successful. I am referring to the establishment slots, which were intended to help new arrivals to get faster into society. The results show that it was neither effective nor effective. In addition, there was some cheating in the system. The Environmental Party believes that the Swedish Public Employment Service should continue to procure complementary actors. Companies that are good at delivering good results will continue to do so in the framework of procurement by the Authority. Madam President, I would like With those words, I am in favour of the reservation of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-25	Madam President, I would like Today we have gathered to debate the fact that the five right-wing parties want to cut up and commercialise the Swedish employment service without really completely knowing how it should be done. It is a task-playing game with freedom from sense of responsibility and respect for the facts. This is something that the representatives of these parties should really be ashamed of. Here we have four parties who themselves bear a responsibility for having driven the effectiveness of labour market policy very actively and with a burning ideological zeal and the trust capital of the Employment Service into the bottom, and then having the nerve to do so in a situation where the damage is being laboriously repaired. And then we have a fifth party, which doesn't care much about this political content, but very much wants to be involved and cause some confusion. The Moderates have made it a strategic goal to integrate this party into the fading heat of the Alliance's sausage grills. It is shameful and rather pitiful. Madam President, I would like In February Elisabeth Svantesson, himself Minister of Labour at the end of Reinfeldteran, made play about Arbetsförmedlingen. She received answers in Svenska Dagbladet and Expressen by Per-Per-Åke Persson, an old servant at Arbetsförmedlingen with 37 years of experience from the agency, including 23 years at the management level. He writes, among other things, like this:a blame for an authority that has done what has been ordered is to see itself as a politician in the mirror and be horrified. Then he points to what makes the move so extra irresponsible. He writes, "The Alliance wants an authority that is primarily responsible for the exercise of authority, control and follow-up." That's exactly what you created during your eight years in power, and it's taken us where we are today. It wasn't something the Arbetsförmedlingen asked for! So far Per-Per-Åke Persson. And that's exactly how it is. The transformation of Arbetsförmedlingen under the government Reinfeldt was very clear and was also presented, as Raimo Pärssinen was a very important political achievement. It was based on an economic policy that would create jobs by increasing income differentials and by penalising economically and socially those who, for various reasons, fell outside the labour market. Instead of identifying the different needs of the unemployed and lifting the skills that needed to be lifted, the idea was rather to push down claims and expectations. This idea also led the management of Arbetsförmedlingen. It became more of detailed control, more of bureaucratic charges and more of the compulsion from above to procure services from outside and thus break some well-functioning own activity and competence. There was less room for administrators to do what should be their job: to meet the unemployed, meet potential employers where they are and interact with other authorities and institutions that could help find ways forward for the unemployed. And no, this wasn't one of those you-can-never-guess-what-happened-then clippings. Many, not least those with solid knowledge and experience of labour market policies, warned of the results. Let us just say that the results were clear. The match got worse. The quality of several labour market policy programmes was documented to be lower. And, of course, the popularity and confidence of the authority appeared. Today we have another government. Unemployment is lower and employment is higher. The Arbetsförmedlingen has started a journey that in several ways also goes in the right direction, although it is difficult, takes time and really does not always get right. What are the right parties doing at that point? Well, they leave sense and balance behind and slip past both the facts about the results of their own experimentation and the facts about the major challenges currently facing the labour market. What is on Parliament's table after all the sprawling moves is a proposal for an announcement to give the ongoing inquiry a further directive on how to develop proposals on how those parts of the employment agency's tasks that do not involve the exercise of authority can be posted to other actors in the labour market. It's like taking the pyramidal fiasco with the so-called establishment slots and partly with the job coaches and using it as a model for full-scale change. The emphasis on control and suspicion that has already damaged the perception of Arbetsförmedlingen in many job seekers is apparently to be refined. Madam President, I would like For a very long time, the Public Employment Service has taken in other actors when a specific task has to be solved, such as a specific training. That's good. It's rationally used resources. But simply pumping money out to commercial companies to make money on what is a central societal task, namely to equip people in various ways and help people to the arbetsmarket, is headless. The right-wing parties' proposal itself speaks of the need for rigorous follow-up and control. Yes, these are things that we know can be exceptionally costly. If we were seriously to do what the proposal suggests, it would mean one of the biggest bureaucratisation processes in modern Swedish administrative history. The report also mentions as a quickest solution the existence of a system in which compensation is mainly paid after the results have been obtained. But it's not that hard to understand what happens then. In important welfare services that are commercially driven but publicly funded, there is today a phenomenon that can be called "cream skimming". This means that the commercial operators earn their money mainly by finding those people who are in the least need of support, for example by placing health centres where people are healthy. In this case, it would be about targeting those people who already have the best chance of getting a job. Alternatively, you will compete for volume, i.e. bring in many jobseekers while pressing costs by doing quite little. That's what we saw in phase 3 operations, for example. Neither will be good, and it will certainly not be cheaper for the national economy. Of course, this opportunity to convert large state resources into private profits is something that the main specialists in this particular type of educational activity, Almega, have already sniffed out. For example, yesterday a seminar had been called at the Sheraton Hotel, a stone's throw from this House. It would appear that the programme would include representatives of some staffing giants who would give their picture of a lucrative future market. In addition, political representatives, including the economic and political spokesperson of the Swedish Democrats, would give their views. There will be the same kind of driving forces around this as in welfare services. Today we are seeing a huge mobilization from the companies to defend their profits. It should be a clear warning signal to the Swedish people not to fall for the curls of efficiency and diversity in a breakup of Arbetsförmedlingen. Madam President, I would like There are plenty of things that we would need to have a serious discussion on in terms of labour market policy. How to improve the content of labour market training? Rather, in what situations should the regular education system be the alternative? How do you improve the tools so that people who have been out of the labour market for a long time will regain self-confidence? How do we continue to improve cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities? It is a collaboration that was also dismantled during the Alliance's transformation of Arbetsförmedlingen. How should unnecessary bureaucracy and documentation be replaced by time to cultivate contacts with local employers? The Public Employment Service has been an authority in deep crisis, and it is undoubtedly also being drawn today with great concern in some areas. For every move from the right wing in recent times it has become even clearer that it would be a tragedy to let them dictate the terms of the Employment Service again. Let me quote again the employment office veteran Per-Per-Åke Persson from a reply to an Expressen article written by representatives of the Alliance: But a factual debate is always stimulating if there are not so many alternative facts that only spread undeserved contempt. Perhaps we should change the name to the new Employment Service? ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a well-functioning national employment service. This is achieved by combining an economic policy for full employment with systematic improvement work at Arbetsförmedlingen as a public authority, not through irresponsible moves and by making Arbetsförmedlingen a money fountain for private actors. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-40	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by apologising for having burst into laughter when we heard the chairman of the Committee on Employment, Raimo Pärssinen, prefer his views and those of the government on this matter. It was a fiery argument about how the Right now destroyed a foundation in society. We were engaged in a total disaster. It was almost evil as described. Then the chairman of the Committee on Employment concluded by saying that we are breaking open doors. There was a big comedy about it, I have to say. We are doing something terrible, but that is breaking an open door because the government is already doing it. It won't be so good, Raimo Pärssinen, when you engage in that kind of rhetoric. I'm going to try and bring the call back to a serious level. Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to make a point. We are discussing an area that has been problematic and problematic, but it needs to be put into the right context. It sounds good to representatives of the Communists – from left to middle of the Social Democracy – as if everything was fine before 2006. But then it is easy to forget that Sweden in 2006, when everything according to Raimo Pärssinen was good, had the highest number in exclusion. Never before have so many people been as far away from the labour market as when, according to Raimo Pärssinen, everything was at its best in Sweden. The number then decreased during the Alliance to 2014 to the lowest number in exclusion that Sweden has ever had. It was not a disaster, but there were 350 000 more jobs during that period. Now, instead, let us look to the future. It has recently been lunchtime, or is still lunchtime, in Sweden. There are microwaves and there are queues for servings. It discusses what to do this weekend, what to do with the children, what ambitions and dreams you have and what to worry about in general and small in life. You have a community with co-workers and colleagues that connects security to and gives meaning to life. There are of course worse lunch breaks too – those that have been interrupted by an extra patient or an old lady who has fallen. The stomach has to pout well into the afternoon in hard work and hard work. Both of these reasons are really very good reasons why it is so important to have a well-functioning labour market and a well-functioning labour market policy, both the community and security that a job provides and strong economic drivers for working. Many times it is challenging. This means that you may have to make other demands on life, reprimand and not do what is funniest. This is the basis for the entire Alliance's employment policy. It will connect people and society, create a community that goes beyond where you come from or who you are and provide strong driving forces to work. It's actually a sacrifice. Many professions do not always have the greatest joy in working themselves. Then the driving forces for working are very important. Employment services are an important part of labour market policy. It has several purposes. There will probably always be a reason, Madam President, to be dissatisfied with the Employment Service. You can always criticise it because it has difficult tasks to deal with. Employment services should help to deal with cyclical fluctuations, structural changes in the labour market, assist those who have the toughest and most difficult, who, due to functional variations or tangled life in general, have come far from the labour market. One should be able to compensate for failures in the Swedish education system or in school. One should be able to generally do something that is difficult according to all textbooks in economics, i.e. manage a good match in the labour market. These are tough tasks. I understand what Ali Esbati and the Left Party are saying, namely that many people can experience frustration in the face of this challenge. It's complex and complicated. And above all, Madam President, there is no quick fix to solve the problem. Madam President, I would like We are seeing worrying developments in the labour market, with a growing division between those of us who are in and well-established in the labour market and a growing group that is not only outside the labour market but also ever further away from even being able to get a job. Part of this, Madam President, we meet, at least in the form of consequences, now every day in news reports, i.e. violence, violent crime, insecurity, organised crime, people who do not have a job, people who have never known anyone who has a job, people who themselves have no hope of getting a job. They can, of course, be more easily recruited for purely destructive things. Job policy is the most important engine for a secure society that holds together. Madam President, I would like That is why I am in favour of the committee's proposal, that is to say the committee initiative by the Alliance, which has since been supported by the Swedish Democrats. It is a small direction in making Sweden better. What we are doing here, which has been called an open door and at the same time cause great damage – a dubious combination might a government representative think – is that we want to sharpen the underlying investigation by making it clearer that, as has been said here, the system that exists and has existed does not work perfectly but needs to be improved. The most important point made by the Alliance in the joint proposal, which has won the majority in the committee, and which will send a clear signal to the government about what should be done, is that those who want to create added value in the Swedish labour market, those who want to make it easier to enter the labour market, and engage in it full-time and in a professional way, should not be complementary parts of the business but should be the business, the core, of what is done – nothing less. This is also what Almega's seminar was about yesterday. Almega himself has highlighted the merit of, but of course not perfect, the way in which this can be done. There are many wise alliance representatives, Madam President, and I was going to give you what one of them has said, namely the Liberals' economic-political spokesperson Mats Persson, who at this seminar noted something striking about the Employment Service. How can it be that the Swedish Tax Agency, which has the task of taking away people's money, has such a high popularity and so much confidence, while the Swedish Employment Service, which has the task of giving people jobs, has such a low level of confidence? The reasonable and intuitive thing should be that it would be the opposite. There is no reason why Arbetsförmedlingen should have as little confidence as it has on a permanent basis. Madam President, I would like Part of this is due to the fact that the Public Employment Service has a too complex and complex task, as I have already described, where too many things should be done at the same time. The Alliance wants the investigation to take a closer look at and prepare for the turn of the government in 2018 for the Swedish Public Employment Service to have a clearer mission in the exercise of its authority and in its controlling function by the actors that exist. People who can carry out matching activities should be allowed to do so. It will be part of a new employment agency in Sweden. No closure, no commercialisation, no privatisation, but a clearer separation of functions so that we can break the new exclusion.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-55	Madam President, I would like I note at the outset that Niklas Wykman said that he intended to bring the debate back to a serious level. At the end of the speech, he confirmed that the moves that have been made where it was said to close the Employment Service and so on have been unserious from the bourgeois side. It's good to know. As I said, this is not what the proposal is about; it is about renouncing some of the worse aspects of the Public Employment Service. Niklas Wykman had heard some alternative posts here where someone would have said that everything was fine in 2006. That was not said in this House. I cannot quite say what was said in the speeches that were not held and which only Niklas Wykman seems to have heard. One thing he said, however, was interesting, and it was about exclusion. He once again spreads the somewhat mythical picture that there was a great alienation in 2006 and that the bourgeois managed to bring it down. It is important to know that what Niklas Wykman defines as alienation is that you are within the support systems that exist in society, such as unemployment insurance or health insurance. What the bourgeois did was, on the one hand, to get a lot of people to leave the unemployment fund, and, on the other hand, to get people to leave health insurance by simply not getting health insurance even though they were sick. Of course, it's a funny definition of alienation that you're inside the protection system. I would like Niklas Wykman to explain this a little bit and confirm that that is what he thinks the exclusion looks like. As he sees it, then, you are in exclusion if you are within the support systems that we have in society while you are not in exclusion if, for example, you live on the street and are not allowed to receive any support from society at all.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-59	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati obviously draws his reality description from newspaper headlines. As a result, it becomes fundamental and difficult to comment in its entirety. Madam President, I would like I therefore simply choose to correct Ali Esbati: his description is not correct at all, and it is remarkable that a person who has devoted his whole life to party politics or political activism has no basic knowledge. The exclusion is measured by SCB, and the measure includes all the groups that have some form of support from society – including those with support. People who end up outside, for example, health insurance or unemployment insurance are thus caught up in the exclusion measure. What Ali Esbati is saying is simply bullshit.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-62	Madam President, I would like Then I think Niklas Wykman confirmed what I said. I know very well how the measure of exclusion came about and how it panicked after the election victory in 2006 because no one, including the bourgeois themselves, could really know what it was that the bourgeois had talked about before the elections. It is true that supply aid is also regarded as exclusion. So we have exactly the situation I was talking about. If you are expelled from different types of insurance support and do not seek support – for example in the form that Prime Minister Reinfeldt talked about around 2010–2011 where you can make a living by, for example, receiving support from your partner, parents or children – you are not included in the exclusion, according to Niklas Wykman. That is exactly what many researchers point out, namely that the exclusion measure is extremely bad. This means that countries with well-developed social security systems and safety nets for citizens automatically come out badly because it looks like many people there are in exclusion. The opposite is to look at how many people are employed. That is what is interesting to see – how much of the population is employed, that is, has jobs that you can make a living on. It turns out that Sweden is doing very well, and today Sweden is of course doing better than when Niklas Wykman's party colleagues and Niklas Wykman himself were part of the government. Traditionally, it has been so in Sweden in modern times: It is not doing so well for the country's economy or labour market under bourgeois rule. We saw examples of this last time. But it is a good thing that Niklas Wykman confirms the image I have, that is, that he uses the alienation measure which in itself is useless to try to understand what is happening in society.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-67	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati comes up with a number of alternative ideas. SCB has been measuring exclusion for a very long time since the beginning of the 1990s. This is not an innovation from 2006. It's nonsense again. According to Ali Esbati's definition, 250 000 homeless homeless people would have been created during the alliance years, which would not have been in any form of security system. That, of course, is just complete nonsense. Where else would the reduction in exclusion have gone, says Ali Esbati? The poverty measure established at European level was severely depressed in these years. If I remember right in the head, it went from 2.1% of the population when Ali Esbati and others ruled to 1.3% when the Alliance ruled. There is a very sharp decline in poor people in Sweden during the period. When the Alliance gave up government power in 2014, Sweden also had the highest employment rate throughout the European Union. In old Communist countries and elsewhere, the state published its own newspapers with alternative facts to its citizens. We have seen a growing incidence of this in the debate as well now, although perhaps from some other movements. But here we stick to the facts of the authorities, which are measured in a serious and official way. Ali Esbati is factually wrong on every point he has mentioned. Madam President, I think it is almost a bit obscene for a politician to behave like that.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-72	Madam President, I would like I think we should remind ourselves that Niklas Wykman is a classic neo-liberal. He grew up in the Moderate Youth League, and he often uses words that are a little hard to understand. I will ask a simple question to Niklas Wykman, who says that things went so well for the former government, Reinfeldt's government. What about unemployment – did it rise or decrease it? It's a step. Even Niklas Wykman can't say it's wrong, because it was. It concerns youth unemployment, long-term unemployment and all the way. It didn't go well. Another question I have is: what is moderate labour market policy? Is it the usual thing about now lowering taxes? Is it the usual thing about us having to lower the thresholds, and then there will be lower entry wages? Is it the usual thing about us having to look at job security and perhaps reduce it a little in order to increase flexibility? Is it the usual thing about unemployment insurance, unemployment insurance, being too high and just increasing unemployment? Now Niklas Wykman says: Let's shut down Arbetsförmedlingen! He opens up for a huge privatization with his thought when he's standing here dreaming of election victory next year. He probably also dreams then that he is supported by the Swedish Democrats on the whole, now that you have opened up to talks between you in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-76	Madam President, I would like The chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs asked about everything and nothing at the same time. He wanted an explanation of the Moderates' entire labour market policy. Then came a speech that is in harmony with reality and how it is. Of course, it is not possible to answer all that in two minutes, so I do not really understand why the chairman of the Committee on Employment asked for a reply at all if he does not have a question on the substance. The case is about how to make Arbetsförmedlingen work better. Nevertheless, I can answer this question of unemployment, which was well the clearest question that came out of the mouth of Raimo Pärssinen. It is about two parts of unemployment. There is unemployment that is cyclically dependent, and there is unemployment that is commonly referred to as structural unemployment, which is the one that the policy governs with its reforms. It can be said that the part of unemployment that politics governs with its reforms fell considerably during the alliance years, and it has in fact since then, Raimo Pärssinen, remained completely still. Not a single per mil down has structural unemployment moved. The Swedish Financial Control Agency, Konjunkturinstitutet, yes, all professional assessors do the same analysis: Government policy does not reduce at all the part of unemployment that politics controls. Then unemployment goes down a little bit in Sweden because we have a boom and because we have a Riksbank that stimulates the economy hard. We are pleased that unemployment is turning downwards, but that is not the merit of the policy pursued, but of the economic boom. I'm going to correct myself a little bit. In fact, the National Board of Financial Control and the Institute of Economic Affairs point out that structural unemployment, i.e. the one that politics controls, is going down a little bit because government policy is pushing out about 0.5 per cent of the labour force in exclusion, and thus disappears from the unemployment rate. Because you are increasing exclusion and fewer people are working, it is therefore a small effect upwards.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-80	Madam President, I would like I was talking about high or low unemployment, and we now heard Niklas Wykman say that it depends on whether unemployment is structural or cyclical. I asked a simple question about unemployment, and Niklas Wykman could have said that it is either higher or lower– it is lower, so it is – without having to fall into any kind of rhetoric that makes it difficult to understand what he says. The same thing happens when I ask a lot of questions. Then he says they have nothing to do with it. Who, then, is responsible? Is it the authority that stands for labour market policy, or is it the government and parliament? That's a simple question, isn't it? If labour market policy does not work and the wrong tools are given to an authority, is it the agency's fault? No. But if you give the agency opportunities and tools so that it really bites and brings their jobs forward so that it works and people get help coming from unemployment to work, that's good. What Wykman says on the basis of his neoliberal ideology is that we should privatise. But the responsibility always lies with politics. It's not on the authority. The responsibility of the authorities is for them to follow what the Riksdag and the Government have decided. For eight years, we had a moderate Minister of Labour in charge of the Public Employment Service, and the results and confidence collapsed. My question is again: who is responsible – the authority or the policy?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-84	Madam President, I would like Raimo Pärssinen has now strongly shown that he does not like to discuss complicated and complex relationships, to get difficult questions or to bone things out in the ground. However, Raimo Pärssinen likes to raise his voice, almost shout a little, and attribute to his political opponents different types of values or opinions that they may have or don't have– it's the model instead. Madam President, I would like I do not think that is a good way to gain the trust of the Swedish people. Perhaps that is why Raimo Pärssinen's party is not doing so well either. I don't think it's a good way to gain popularity or, for that matter, trust in a serious policy in times of populism to shout and ravage their opponents and refuse to discuss the subject matter. It's not going to be good, Raimo, when you're going to do politics that way. That is why it is all the more important to talk about the issue. Here it is about how the Employment Service should be improved so that the people can get help as your party, your government, today leave in hopelessness, in violence and in exclusion and without prospects, without parents who ever go to a job and without the belief that you yourself can work in school and get a foot in the labour market. It is almost 1 million people that the government leaves completely out of the labour market. Here, the Alliance is taking a small step in order for those people to have better conditions. The chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs can do no better than ralli. That is regrettable, Madam President.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-88	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party agree with the basic starting points of the report. So far, so good. Then comes the ill - drawn conclusions of this. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party believe that the government has taken action. So be it, but what have these measures led to? There's no mention of it. It is a complete lack of quantitative objectives in which positive progress can be ensured through sub-objectives. It is not worthy of taxpayers. Instead, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party use incalculable concepts. For example, it is mentioned that the labour market policy framework has been simplified. It is mentioned that the opportunities for cooperation with municipalities have improved. Simplifications and improvements do not mean anything unless they can show measurable results in the form of regular jobs. The Employment Service, for its part, refers to an internal renewal journey – it is the Director General's favorite word – that should be completed in 2021. In this renewal journey, Arbetsförmedlingen will increase its focus on evaluating the agency's work and efforts. Arbetsförmedlingen must also have a strong focus on developing relations with employers. The level of this target picture says a little about where Arbetsförmedlingen is today. The question is whether this target also reflects the level of ambition of the government. In such cases, it is really serious. Should not taxpayers expect more for 80 billion? Madam President, I would like The aim of all labour market measures, including the governance of the Employment Service, must be to bring an increased number of individuals into regular jobs, not least those furthest from the labour market, and that effect has not been achieved. At this point in time, choosing not to explore the possibility of other alternatives is only irresponsible and nothing else, especially in view of the instructive international examples that exist. But we can also look at Swedish examples. In the last 20 years, with the good memory of the Social Democrats, private actors have been brought forward in the supply of employment services, mainly in labour market training, but also in rehabilitation services and support for the long-term unemployed. What's left of Arbetsförmedlingen is the match. There, too, an internal study is currently underway. Since a little over six months back, Arbetsförmedlingen reports results to contracting actors within the project Support and matching. A three-star rating system based on the supplier's performance is the basis for the assessment. Australia and the UK form the basis for the structure and methodology of the rating system. So this already exists to some extent. Madam President, I would like The attempts that have been made in the past with job coaches and start-up slots were costly and had very doubtful results. That's it. However, the problem was not essentially to open up to private operators, but to have a complete lack of control, as I have often said from this speaker's seat and in debates with the representatives of the Alliance in the speakers' chairs here. The work on rating systems partially addresses this problem. Madam President, I would like The challenges we face in the labour market do not wait. In the midst of a boom, nearly 1 million people are excluded and dependent on benefits. Even now, under the most favourable circumstances, the Employment Service does not succeed in getting people to work. Then I mean unsubsidised, real jobs. At the same time, employers signal that it is difficult to find the right workforce. That's what it looks like. The Public Employment Service has had a very long time to streamline its operations, but is nevertheless being drawn with very low confidence figures and failing results. The Swedish Democrats believe, and already in our draft budget last autumn, that the Public Employment Service should be reformed in its current form. The renewal journey must be over. The employment agency cannot be allowed to engage in navel-dressing for all eternity. Given the situation we are in now, we must act. We must dare try another model. The Swedish Democrats therefore support the fact that the committee proposes that the government should give the Labour Market Investigation additional directives, and we call for the reservation to be rejected.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-100	Madam President, I would like It is in this way that the Swedish Democrats have entered into cooperation with the Moderates in the Labour Market Committee. I am therefore curious why Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström says it is time to privatise. The purpose of the Supplementary Directive is for the Public Employment Service to engage only in the exercise of public authority. The rest will be privatised. Are the Swedish Democrats and Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström curious about what it would look like, or do you think it should be like that? It's quite interesting. There will be a debate in this House on welfare gains – on how we look at how taxpayers' money is spent, what control there is of it, and so on. Have the Swedish Democrats taken a stand on this? You say it will be over on the renewal journey, that it has taken too long, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. But it was the bourgeois government that for eight years drove the Employment Service to the bottom. Now the confidence figures are turning around. There's evidence for that. Now the results are reversed. There is also evidence of this. Arbetsförmedlingen procures from private, external actors for SEK 7 billion. That's quite a lot. 180 000 people are in activities that others carry out and that the Employment Service buys. I think that's quite a lot. And the numbers are moving in the right direction, despite the strained situation. How does Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström view this? Is everything but the government mission to be privatized?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-105	Madam President, I would like Knowledge is not dangerous, Raimo Pärssinen. This is about an investigation being given an additional directive to investigate whether it could be a way forward. Then you get knowledge. We assume that this House will make decisions based on knowledge. It is therefore something that not only we should be happy about; even the red-greens should be happy to learn more about this, in order to make a good assessment of which way to go in relation to the Employment Service. We already explained in connection with the autumn budget what we think about the future of Arbetsförmedlingen. Regardless of the Alliance's possible debate articles or committee initiatives, we believe that Arbetsförmedlingen's activities need to be refined. We have not gone as far as the Alliance reports, in its debate article to begin with and then in its committee initiative. However, we think that knowledge, Raimo Pärssinen, is extremely important. And that is exactly what we get through a supplementary directive. The investigator also has a background in Arbetsförmedlingen and a great knowledge of Arbetsförmedlingen's work. I think it will be valuable. I would add that what Raimo Pärssinen mentioned about establishment slots, job coaches and other failures was intr essential. That's the way it is. In Expressen, it even said that through those activities money was channelled to IS. I am therefore pleased that we got into the wording of the majority that a central part of such a reform is rigorous monitoring and control, as well as a system where compensation is mainly paid after the results have been shown.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-111	Madam President, I would like We and those who listen to the debate can note that Sven ‐ Olof Sällström says that it is their common writing. He is pleased that those texts were included in their joint writing. However, I am not getting a real answer. Does this mean that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström is not on the headline that the Moderates went out with? This was the big headline you went out with to show that Arbetsförmedlingen is really going to be closed down now. Annika Qarlsson from the Center Party has championed the Australian model. I can understand that. But does this mean that the Swedish Democrats are behind the closure of Arbetsförmedlingen, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström? It's your joint writing. You're looking for more knowledge. That is why you want the supplementary directive. The investigation and Cecilia Fahlberg have a very broad mission. One should look at labour market policies, at the Employment Service itself and at how they should interact in order to have an effective impact in reality. But do the Swedish Democrats stand here and say that they are behind the headline that the Moderates launched about closing the Swedish Public Employment Service? Or have you agreed to it to learn more? They have decided; they have already said that Arbetsförmedlingen should be closed down and that the rest should be privatised. My question to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström is once again: Does the Swedish Democrats support the closure of the Swedish Public Employment Service via this supplementary directive? You settled the texts together, and you had contact with the Moderates and agreed on it. But do you really want to shut down Arbetsförmedlingen and privatize everything? It is an important signal to tell the Swedish people.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-118	Madam President, I would like It is quite remarkable that the chairman of the Labour Market Committee does not know and support an old Swedish civil service tradition when it comes to investigations, namely that we are constantly trying to make decisions on a good basis. It is one of the pillars of Swedish state administration. It is obviously positive to give additional directives. We will all gain more knowledge in order to make good decisions. Then Raimo Pärssinen also understands that the results of the investigation will show us where we end up in the end. But our focus is well presented in our autumn budget. Where we end up, we'll see after the investigation is complete. Both Raimo Pärssinen and others have said with loud voices and big and bombastic words here in the speaker's chair that it will now be done here, and now it will be done so. That is a rather modest proposal we are making today. We are proposing an additional directive for an investigation, Raimo. It's not about World War III or World War IV. It is a supplementary directive to an investigation – an old, tried and tested and fine Swedish tradition when it comes to investigations that we should stick to. That's a good thing. There are absolutely huge problems with Arbetsförmedlingen. The biggest problem is, apart from a somewhat strange internal culture – but we can take that on another occasion – the extremely poor follow-up. You yourself have admitted that it is the responsibility of the government, politics, that it is that way. There are no quantitative targets. There are no quantitative milestones and no follow-up. You only have flosskels. I know that, for example, the Minister for Labour shares that view. She's been standing up at the head office screaming and telling me how bad things are going.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-124	Madam President, I would like It was a long time ago that we jointly organised a seminar on the opening up of the Employment Service to competition. It's nice to have you by my side during the debate. There are more than the Center Party who question the effectiveness of the Employment Service in the provision of jobs. In addition to many job seekers and a majority of companies looking for labour, a majority of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs now wants to see how everything that is not official practice can be laid out to other actors. The Center Party has worked for this for a long time and sees it as a step in the right direction following the good example of other countries. We've been looking at Australia a lot. England has introduced a major structural change. Changes have also been made in many other places. Only 13 per cent of the Swedish people have confidence in the agency, according to the Media Academy 2016. There has been little confidence in the Public Employment Service for decades; it is nothing new now. I would like to inform the current government parties that in the spring of 2006 we submitted a mission to the parliamentary investigation service, which stated that – at the end of a long government period when the Social Democrats ruled – the average was one job per administrator and year. The Director-General at the time also noted that these figures were correct. Many times I have discussed the issue, and as many times I have made it clear that the problem is not about individual administrators in the agency, but it is the task of the Public Employment Service in combination with the structure of the agency that makes it almost impossible to do a good job. The position of the Public Employment Service has changed in recent decades. Persons who have previously been on sick leave or unemployed for a long time were then hidden into early retirement or measures, but now these people are at Arbetsförmedlingen's residence to step by step take their place and get a platform for a continued working life. Now the number of people at Arbetsförmedlingen who have no experience of the Swedish labour market is also increasing. In this way, there is also a major change in the position of Arbetsförmedlingen. Over time, the challenges are different. During recession, it is extremely difficult for many to get into work. Now it is booming, wheels are rolling and employers are having trouble getting the right people. Matching problems in the labour market are enormous, mainly affecting those looking for work and employers who are prevented from growing. And that is where AF does not fulfil the function that they have the mission to do and are expected to complete. The division between those who have a job and those who have not is increasing now. Today, it is difficult for a single player, who also has a role of government, to meet all the different needs of the labour market. Only 12 – 15 per cent of job vacancies go through AF. Instead, nine out of ten jobs are communicated in other ways: through friends, workmates, relatives, and other contacts. However, many outside the labour market lack the necessary networks. That is what is the most serious shortcoming of AF, that those who are furthest from the labour market do not get the support, the help and the network that they so badly need. This summer, Minister Ylva Johansson finally resumed the review of AF, following many calls from the Center Party and the other alliance parties. The Centre Party has for a long time tried to involve alliance colleagues in renouncing the exercise of public authority and opening up the training and employment services to competition in order to bring about a division of ownership of the various roles of the agency. Already in the first working groups set up by the Alliance before the 2006 elections, we wanted the AF to be reformed, but we did not get all the other parties on it. During our government years, we and the Christian Democrats were the driving force for an investigation, which came into place late in the day. Now even the Moderates have checked in, and we welcome that. Madam President, I would like In the reservations of the government parties, the arguments for rejecting further assignments to the investigation are a little bit here and there. After all, they agreed to the investigation, and they are, after all, a little concerned about the results and confidence in the agency. Nevertheless, the position seeks to demonstrate that what we want to add by means of the Additional Directive nevertheless fits in with the investigator's mandate. But in the other text they say that they really do not want any other solution than Arbetsförmedlingen. Point. In addition, we can hear the chairman of the committee insinuating how the initiative has been developed. Then I must make it clear that we from the Alliance had a joint mission which, since the Swedish Democrats joined. Today we have had another matter on our committee table where the Swedish Democrats support the government parties. Then the question is, if you use the same rhetoric as the chairman of the committee: Is it a developed cooperation that the government has with the Swedish Democrats? Today, Arbetsförmedlingen is an authority that makes decisions and grants compensation. It is also responsible for the second part to coach and help. We want to streamline the government mission. Education, matching, support and networking, we want independent actors to take care of. These can be private companies, organisations, social enterprises or municipalities. A key element of such a reform is monitoring and control, and a system where remuneration is mainly based on the results of getting people permanently into work. A majority of the Labour Market Committee is now in line with the Center Party and wants the current labour market inquiry to be expanded with proposals on how parts of the Employment Service's tasks can be outsourced to other actors in the labour market. As we see it, this would allow for the introduction of a job-fixing allowance system early in the next parliamentary term. Madam President, I would like It is a bit unusual but it is also good: I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-142	Madam President, I would like Like my alliance colleagues, I would also like to support the committee's proposal in the report. It is not every day that we do it, but we have not intended to write reservations for eternity. It is good that there is now a majority in the Riksdag to take steps to change the Public Employment Service. The Liberals' view is that the Public Employment Service should be closed down in its current form. There are also such wordings in the report, which is very important. Every year, Sifo surveys, known as reputation measurements, ask a large number of people in our country which authorities they trust. Sifo's latest reputation index survey came in July last year. Dagens Nyheter described this under the heading: Arbetsförmedlingen has the lowest confidence again. Svenska Dagbladet wrote: As usual, Arbetsförmedlingen home the bottom position. The measurement of confidence extends over a scale from minus 65 to plus 135, where minus 65 is the worst. The employment agency received minus 22 in the last year's reputation index. The average for Swedish authorities is plus 29. In fact, only two authorities fall below zero. It's the Arbetsförmedlingen and the Migration Agency. The Migration Board ended up on minus 17, if I don't remember wrong. This is followed up in other types of measurements. There was a measurement the other day where they had asked 621 service companies in Sweden if they have confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen. Only 2% of the 621 companies respond that they have a very high level of confidence in the Employment Service. In total, only 12 per cent – barely over a tenth – have quite high or very high confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen. Madam President, I would like This is a fundamental problem. There are authorities that have very tough missions and are therefore unpopular. It is about authorities that pay out different types of compensation and need to make demands on applicants. Individuals may be upset, and you can understand that it can be tough for these authorities. But the Public Employment Service is an authority that is supposed to provide jobs. There should be more people who have confidence in the authority and who feel that they are satisfied, who feel that they have returned to the labour market thanks to the help they have received. But notoriously, the Swedish Public Employment Service has the lowest confidence among all Swedish authorities. After all, thousands of administrators work at Arbetsförmedlingen, but it is not individuals who should take shots for this failure. This has to do with political governance and how the agency is organised. Both left-wing and bourgeois governments and we in this assembly all have a responsibility to ensure that the governance of the Employment Service has not functioned. And it is precisely to take on this responsibility that we now have this report. There is also a majority in the Riksdag for an announcement, which mainly concerns that those parts that do not constitute the exercise of authority should be able to be extended to other actors. However, it is also a question of a major reorganisation or closure of the whole agency. That does not mean, as the chairman of the committee, the Social Democrat Raimo Pärssinen, stands and says, that everything should be privatised. It's definitely not about that. What we have said on the Liberal side is that we want to close the Public Employment Service in its current form, but of course we want there to be an authority function for control, exercise of authority, payment of support and other things. But it doesn't have to be Arbetsförmedlingen that does it because it today has such a notoriously low level of confidence among job seekers, employers and the public in Sweden in the broader sense. There are a number of different actors who are very good and in a very successful way can contribute to more people getting jobs in Sweden. These companies can in various ways niche and specialise. They can achieve better results and be more effective. But from the left side you have a reflexive, routine resistance to letting others in. You want a big government colossus that you think will solve everything, because you have the view of the labour market and the economy that has followed throughout the post-war period. But society doesn't really look like that today. Our labour market is changing. There are rapid technological shifts; new jobs come and other jobs go. We have digitalisation and urbanisation. This whole economic upheaval also makes it more difficult for a single authority to carry out all these qualified analyses and for a single actor to achieve all these results. As several speakers have previously pointed out, this is about the existence of different models and systems that can be viewed in a study to see if they can be implemented in the Swedish model. Australia and the United Kingdom have been mentioned, for example. There are different systems in different countries, which reward those who deliver good results and sift out those who perform too poorly. In this way, we get a better result that means that more people get a job in Sweden, that more people do not have to live on grants and that more new arrivals can enter the labour market and help build Sweden so that it can become an even better country tomorrow than it is today.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-156	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats support the announcement to the government about Arbetsförmedlingen. I would like to start with the investigation and what is stated in the current investigation's directive. The chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is trying to say that this is already there with the opening-up of competition. But I've been comparing the lyrics, so don't try to fool us here! The previous investigation directives from the Alliance say that it is opening up to competition, and the current government's directives only say that it is using external actors. It's a little different text, actually, and it's important to get it out. The Alliance has thus taken this initiative in relation to the Employment Service, and I will present the motives of the Christian Democrats for this. For the past year, 2016, Arbetsförmedlingen received SEK 80 billion to carry out its mission. This included administration for about SEK 8 billion for 14,000 employees. The Government intends to increase the funding next year to SEK 105 billion. It's an incredible amount of money; the defense has about 40 to 45 billion. Of course, citizens expect us to use taxpayers' money effectively. What are these large sums of money for, in addition to administration? Yes, 12.5 billion goes to the unemployment fund. Then they bought services from external suppliers for 7 billion, so the Public Employment Service uses external suppliers absolutely today – that's nothing unusual. It also spent EUR 20 billion on wage subsidies to various employers: new jobs and all such subsidised jobs. This concerned some 135 000 people. 100 000 people participated in the services Support and matching, Introduction to work and Vocational Swedish, and a further 94 000 people participated in various preparatory and labour market training courses. We have had the preparatory labour market training in committee recently. The Swedish National Audit Office's report showed that very much worked inefficiently. There was no control over the results – what they wanted to achieve with the training. So it is huge amounts of money that we spend without knowing whether it will produce results. The most important task of the Employment Service is to ensure that unemployment insurance functions as a conversion insurance. For us politicians who are supposed to monitor the authorities, it must mean that we constantly ask ourselves the question: How do our resources make the most use of the mission? How do they effectively help people get to work quickly? This could be a first job or a transition to a new job. According to several surveys, the agency's authority functions relatively well today. However, it is also concluded that matching work does not work well at Arbetsförmedlingen today, and that is the most important thing for getting people to work. Unfortunately, among recent arrivals, the results are particularly disappointing. After the two-year start-up effort, with start-up allowance and two years under the Employment Service to try to get into work as new arrivals, only 31 per cent move on to work with or without subsidies and studies. According to Arbetsförmedlingen's own report, only 6 per cent move on to work without subsidies after two years. This must nevertheless be described as a rather poor result. This shows that we must now discuss the amount of these appropriations and come more to the question of results. This is something that we have had in the committee in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's previous reports. Today, we know that most people who come to the Employment Service are people who have difficulties entering the labour market. It is mainly foreign-born, elderly people and persons with reduced working capacity. People who are currently employed and made redundant usually do not need the same support because they are assisted by the parties' conversion organisations, such as the Security Foundation and the Security Council. They're doing very well. But now we have an extraordinary situation, Madam President. Of the 160 000 asylum seekers who arrived in 2015 alone, we can assume that approximately 70 per cent are granted a residence permit in Sweden. This means that almost 95 000 people are expected to enter the labour market in the near future. We know that it is people who are perhaps often very poorly equipped; 30% do not even have upper secondary education. Against this background, we Christian Democrats are pushing for reform of the Employment Service. Already in 2008 we looked at the Australian system. There, the then Social Democratic Government introduced a performance-driven labour market model that quickly raised the proportion of people who got into work from 30 to 45 percent. If we compare this with Sweden, opening up to competition would mean that almost 100 000 more people came into work. If you look at what wage subsidies for 135 000 people mean, for example, when it comes to new jobs, you can see that it is 20 billion. This means that we could take home at least 15 billion. It's huge money this is all about. The Left Party raises the issue of cream skimming, which means that some of the companies only take the simple cases. In Australia, it's not like that. There you can't choose people, but the company must accept everyone who wants to come. What you can possibly do is set a ceiling for how many you have the capacity to receive. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not easy to reset such a large organization, but in healthcare we did this in the 1990s. I'm sure you know about that. In the past, it was the chief doctors who shouted that they had the longest queues that got the most resources. If you had long surgeries, you got a lot of money. We changed this to get paid after performance, i.e. after the operations carried out according to a certain model. It was completely the reverse world, but I do not think even the Social Democrats would want to go back to the old model. Of course, we must try other incentives than we have today. We need to start thinking differently and try new models. In many respects, the employment agency's staff are doing a good job, but the system is in the wrong place, as several have pointed out earlier. When administrators have very little time to deal with different job seekers, the problem arises that the wrong people are sent to the wrong workplace, and the matching does not work. And the Employment Service's self-registrar activities are paid regardless of the result achieved. In Australia, workers are paid when they match to work, and it is the performers who make contact with companies and employers who want to hire. In the new Swedish Public Employment Service, the central authority would therefore not engage in employer contacts, for it will be the responsibility of the operators. Madam President, I would like It is clear that there is no quick fix in the case of people who find it difficult to establish themselves on the labour market. However, I have met so many different companies and organisations that have contacts and who can find jobs. Trade unions and cooperative activities could also be providers. We would, of course, have to rig a system that favours serious actors who have long-term ambitions. There are already good examples in municipalities like Nacka, where you have a job money. I've been visiting there three times in the last ten years. What is being checked is that the actors ensure that people get to work. People, for example, have free access to komvux and are free to choose whether they want to go there. How is quality then controlled, I wondered. I got the answer: if we see that those who have attended the course of a certain performer will return to support, we will remove that performer from our list. So it has been made very clear that results pay off. That is why we now again believe that the government must resume the mission previously given from the Alliance Government to an investigator with the aim of renewing the Employment Service. We believe that, by 31 March of this year, the Labour Market Investigation should provide additional directives on how to develop proposals on how to extend to other actors in the labour market those parts of the Public Employment Service's tasks that do not involve the exercise of public authority and on how to organise the state commitment. The entire investigation commission should be reported on 31 January 2019. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-176	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to point out that Mrs Pethrus believes that most of the money that goes through the Employment Service is for unemployment benefit and for salary support. I wonder whether this is what should be opened up to competition and how it should be done. If that is not the case, I do not quite understand the point of using that sum to justify that there is money to be made. I also as a resident in the Stockholm area a little worried when the care is cited as a success model when it comes to how it should go with Arbetsförmedlingen. If this is what should be the model, it is another argument for staying far away from the experimentation of the right parties. What is interesting is that there is an idea that competition and market adaptation would in some magical way lead to saving money. Désirée Pethrus points out that this is particularly important because many new arrivals and many who find it difficult to enter the labour market. But in these areas they have had start-ups and job coaches before. This opening-up to competition has already taken place. It was one of the biggest failures in Swedish government in the last ten years. Why would opening up competition bring much better results this time? Then I would be happy to come back to the question of Australia. I merely note that some research has been carried out on this. Among other things, it pointed to significant costs for procurement process and monitoring. Is this something that Désirée Pethrus thinks is good and wants more of?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-180	Madam President, I would like Of course, much of the wage support money could be saved. But what I want above all is: if an actor is paid only after a person has a job in the regular labour market, we will not have to continue with wage support. The problem today is that many have to return. First, they are not admitted, but they get a new start job, and then when the employer is unable to keep them without pay support, they can go back to Arbetsförmedlingen. I hope that we will be able to get away from this balling with people, so that people can get help into the regular labour market and not just labour market interventions of various kinds. What the current government sees as a solution to everything – preparedness jobs, start-up jobs, extra services, trainee services and so on – are, of course, temporary jobs that are often not long-term, unfortunately. I believe that the 20 billion wage subsidy could be used more effectively to get people to work. When it comes to care as a success model, the example I took was very specific: Do you reward long queues, or do you reward the performance that is being done? I assume that Ali Esbati is also in favour of the Arbetsförmedlingen's work showing results. If we are looking at the latest national audit report that we have discussed in committee, then surely Ali Esbati must admit that one of the issues there was that we do not look at the results and that we do not have control over costs. Let me put the question back, though: surely results have to pay off in order to look at the number of people in line?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-182	Madam President, I would like Of course, results are crucial. However, the problem with Arbetsförmedlingen's complex operations is that it is not always easy to say what is the result, except when someone goes from not having a job to having a job, which is the result that is measured. But there are a lot of other things that are done, especially in relation to the people who are very far from the labour market. If you have gone from standing very far from the labour market to having been strengthened and have started to do better yourself, even if you do not have a job, it is an important result that is difficult to measure. Much of this work is done in the best-functioning projects and the best-functioning operations, for example in the municipalities. If the activity is poor, it is the people who are furthest away from the labour market who are further affected and become depressed and depressed e. On paper, the results may still appear to be the same, but they are not always. This is an example of things that make things more complex. Mrs Pethrus says that the 20 billion wage subsidies could be better used. This presupposes that the competitive operators whom she wants to allow in even more would be in a lot of secret jobs that those who are currently receiving subsidised employment could get without subsidies. No one has discovered that work so far! We have had to wait for a lot of competitive players to find them for the tens of thousands. It is a very strange picture of how the Swedish labour market works. I would like to ask again whether Mrs Pethrus has looked at the research that shows that the example of Australia had very high costs of monitoring and monitoring and that there were a lot of problems that were not fixed until 10, 15 or 20 years later, including through new regulations.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-186	Madam President, I would like Of course, I cannot answer that. We are saying that we should give an investigation a directive, a supplementary directive. This is where all such things should be sorted out. How should the procurement be done? It can surely be said that the procurement competence of the Public Employment Service has unfortunately failed in many parts. Maybe one of the things was just about the starters. There is a need for improvement. Would the jobs just suddenly appear? There are a lot of employers who say: We do not get the right skills and the right staff. In any case, ever since the Alliance came, we have had a discussion about matching. Here's a man looking for labor. Here's a guy looking for a job. How are they gonna find each other? That's the thing, and that's what they call matching. We do not believe that the Employment Service, which unfortunately has far too little contact with employers, is right to find jobs for these people. We need to look outside the Arbetsförmedlingen's enclosure. What makes it so dangerous, Ali Esbati, to go beyond the model that we have had for many years and which many criticise? Is it not a good thing that we are sending an additional directive to the investigation to try to investigate the possibilities of seeing other options – this in order for people who are far from the labour market to get to work? From the Christian Democrats' side, we see that people who are newly arrived have a great need for support into the labour market. Employment services may not be the only solution. Perhaps there are other actors who are also very good. Then I think we need to see it. In addition to the early establishment of languages and so on, I believe that opening up to competition and the models that already exist, such as in Nacka, should be looked at as an alternative.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-191	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate aviation issues, TU10. I would like to express my support for reservation No 1. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report. I would like to begin by giving a brief review of what aviation has looked like in relation to other transport sectors on the basis of what concerns me most, that is, the climate. When I was new to Parliament in 1998, they had a climate target for the whole transport sector that said that the climate impact would decrease gradually until 2010. Then it would be back at least 1990 level. That, I thought, when I started working, was pretty good. When you want to replace oil with something, it is about bio-raw material, and we know that it is limited. If we are to have sustainable forestry in the long term and if we are to ensure overall climate benefits, there is no limitless use of biofuels to replace everything that currently operates trucks, aircraft, ships and so on. We were working on this. 2010 was approaching. Sweden changed its government in 2006. Then we got a new concept: fossil fuel independent vehicles. Then one could think about: What are vehicles? Were those airplanes? No, it wasn't. Were they ships? No, it wasn't. They were road vehicles. I have tried to ask whether bicycle in this respect was also a vehicle. But it didn't count. It was about cars and trucks. Then the flight got a little into a vacuum. How to deal with climate impact from aviation? In the discussions I had in this House at the time, it was said: No, but it will work out, because aviation is going into the emissions trading system. It will solve the problem, because then we will have a rational, market-based system in which the measures are taken where they are most useful. I was a little hesitant about that in the debate. But then the minister, Åsa Torstensson, tried to convince me: Don't worry, because this will work out when the flight enters the emissions trading system. I do not think anyone today could stand up and say: this will work out. However, I still believe that we should do what we can to make emissions trading more efficient, so that allowances are more expensive and so that unused allowances are cancelled instead of being sold. We're not gonna let go of that trail. Nor should we let go of the track to try to act internationally with regard to aviation. As far as I know, the Swedish Government has spared no effort in trying to find, at meetings with ICAO or in other contexts, cross-border agreements to limit the climate impact of aviation and to find the instruments needed to de facto replace fossil aviation fuel with renewables. Now we return to this report. Something happened after the paradigm shift from having a target for the whole sector to limiting itself to road vehicles. I think we have done something sensible in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, because we are working on another report, which deals with the whole sector, the fossil fuel-dependent sector, where aviation is a part of which is to be treated just like shipping and road traffic. But what are we doing waiting for this? Among other things, one can look at the principle one has for cars. You talk about sorting your car trips. The car is unmatched in certain situations, but it is undeniably the case that the car is also used in contexts where public transport or active mobility could be beneficial. I think you have to think the same way when it comes to flights. If you're going to the other side of the Atlantic, you don't have much to do. Very few of us have the time to use shipping to get to other continents. You can think of domestic travel. There's potential. It is not certain that we must have policies that regulate precisely the fact that you as a private individual have a responsibility to sort out both your car and your air travel. Then work on in the EU and tighten up emissions trading – yes. But what can we do based on what is our decision-making arena, that is, the Swedish Parliament? Well, I think we in the committee agree that greater efforts should be made to get renewable fuels to replace fossil fuels. We have had a number of exercises in the Transport Committee where we have called to us aviation stakeholders who have told us what they are actually doing. I do not think that any of those who listen to this debate, or those of us who are physically present, have missed the fact that, in the case of a number of Swedavia's departures today, biofuels are part, indeed small, of the fuel in aviation. But where does this fuel come from? Well, when Swedavia was going to make a procurement, you looked at the market. Where was renewable propellant available? Despite very active efforts, only one offered to supply such aviation fuel to Sweden. It was spent frying oil from California. I'm sure it's great that we're using spent frying oil from California. But I don't think it can be a long-term solution, and I don't think it is using frying oil to the extent in California that it can supply the fuel needed for Swedish domestic flights. So new things need to be done. It is clear that you should be a tech optimist and do what you can to try to go outside the box and think about: What can you do with Swedish forest, for example? Is there any raw material or residual product suitable for aviation fuel? But as far as I know – please correct me if I'm wrong – no aircraft fuel made from lignin is yet approved for air traffic. What is special about aviation fuel is that it should work even at very low temperatures to be safe. Why is this such a big problem for aviation? Well, you can look at the energy requirement when it comes to driving a vehicle. There are two things that determine. One is the air resistance. The second is the friction between the material on the vehicle and its environment. I have said this many times before; it may not be possible to miss that I have a teacher's background that also colores my assignment as a Member of Parliament: When it comes to ship hulls against water, there is very little friction at normal speed. There is very little fuel available to transport large volumes of cargo if you do not drive the ships to go unnecessarily fast. In fact, a train is also extremely fuel efficient. Steel wheels against rails give very little friction, and the construction of trains when they walk with several wagons after each other is such that the air resistance is minimal. When it comes to rubber wheels against asphalt, it immediately becomes more difficult and requires more energy. However, there is no objection to taking an aircraft into the air. It requires a lot of energy due to the air resistance and friction between the aircraft and the surrounding air. What also makes it problematic is that the climate impact of aviation is not limited to the carbon content of the fuel alone, but it is also a high-height effect which means that one may have to multiply by type factor 2.5 in order to produce the real climate impact. This makes the issue of climate change in aviation an extremely important issue, both for us and for anyone who wants a sustainable transport system in the long term. That is, of course, the overall objective that we have decided on in agreement in this House. What, then, can be done in practical terms? Scientific literature talks about fuel efficiency. A great deal has been done here, such as attempts at green approaches, and one tries to think about control systems and so on so that it is as effective as possible in the aircraft. However, the accounts we have received from SAS and others tell me that very much has been done and that the potential for further fuel efficiency in aircraft is certainly there but probably not very great. Consideration should also be given to how aviation can be more efficient. Can you find smarter routes and smarter ways to organize your flight? When it comes to smarter routes, there is definitely a potential, perhaps to find agreements between countries that do not make you drive around unnecessarily. In the case of procured traffic, a flight may go down and take more passengers compared to having many separate routes. I am not very knowledgeable in this area. I think there's potential, but I don't really think it's huge either. What is also discussed in the literature on aviation and climate is that we need to find some way to store carbon dioxide. It will be necessary if we are to meet the climate targets. How it will be done and what it will cost is still a very uncertain question. This leads me to believe that a flight strategy should be based on the principle that we should ensure that flights are maintained where there are no alternatives today, nor with any credibility whatsoever, will there be alternatives in the long term. Sweden is an elongated country. We have neither the advice nor the opportunity to expand the railway to all parts, and Gotland will probably not be able to do without flying. We must therefore protect this much better than we have done so far. I think that we could focus on this aviation strategy. Otherwise, however, we must ensure that we sort out our flights and be able to offer alternatives to flights where practical. We will also support research and initiatives from aviation operators to develop the biofuels that we will sooner or later have to have in order for air traffic to meet the climate targets.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-216	Madam President, I would like We have before us the annual report on aviation issues, with movements from general exercise time. This year I will say that it is more fun than in a long time, in the years I have been involved in any case, to discuss these very issues in this particular report. In a little while I'll come back to why it's more fun this year. In the report, there are two reservations which we in the Socialist Group support, but for the time to come, I am content to call for the approval of reservation 1 and otherwise for the committee's proposal in the report in those parts where we do not have a reservation. However, I would like to start with an issue that is not concerned here today. One can rightly say that it is both the wrong report and the wrong committee. The reason why I am doing so, Madam President, is my experience of the opposition – both at committee meetings and at previous readings of motion reports in aviation – and a very strong suspicion that the opposition parties will also today address this issue as their main intervention. The question is air taxes. The issue of a flight tax is not included in this report. It is not part of the motions we are discussing here, but yet the issue of air tax, as I see it, is really the only unifying point for the alliance parties to have taken a joint initiative, together with the Swedish Democrats, for an announcement of a new aviation strategy. In brackets, I can say that in committee it is probably the first time that I have so clearly experienced how the bourgeois alliance parties contact the Swedish Democrats and almost appeal to them to join the Alliance's claims. There have been some discussions, especially within the Moderates about clarity and ambiguity in their so-called new strategy. In this case and in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I think it can be said that the leadership of the party can be quite calm: there is no ambiguity at all. It is that one seeks increased support from the Swedish Democrats to make joint announcements, and one does so with proposals that are common to the Moderates, Center Party, Liberals and Christian Democrats. Turning back to the issue of air tax, which is therefore not dealt with in this report or by this committee, it is clear that this is an issue that is important for the industry. It is important for companies and private individuals who make use of aviation. Now there's an investigation into airline tax. It's been out for a referral. Responsive has come in. A very large proportion of respondents are very critical of this air tax. The government has then signalled its intention to introduce a flight tax. This means that the issue of air tax will come back to this House, to this Parliament, for decisions in the order that we always deal with tax matters. Air travel today has a lot of challenges. Regional airports feel threatened, particularly in the light of existing rules at EU level which regulate the possibility of receiving State aid. Air travel as part of the transport sector needs to reduce its emissions significantly in order to achieve the climate targets on which we broadly agree in this House. Competition in the aviation market is intensifying, and as a result there is also a risk of social dumping and deterioration of working conditions in the aviation industry. The answer to those questions cannot simply be: Do not introduce any airline tax! These challenges existed before the discussions on air tax, and they exist – air tax or not. That is why we must take these challenges seriously. I shall return to what I began by saying, that the debate on this report is more gratifying than previous debates on similar reports. This is because, as I understand it, the current Swedish Government has now presented its first aviation strategy. It addresses the challenges facing the industry, and that is very good. This is something that should have been done before, but it was something that apparently and apparently did not have sufficient priority in the bourgeois alliance government that ruled Sweden for eight years. Now, if I may repeat myself from previous speeches in the debate, I can say that what the previous bourgeois government had to do with the aviation strategy was to call the industry to a meeting the weeks before it resigned. It was a good meeting and a good initiative, but it should be put in relation to the high tailings of the bourgeois opposition now that the weeks after a flight strategy has been presented you say: Now we want another flight strategy! Let me make some descriptions of what the government's decided aviation strategy contains. It has seven focus areas. The first focus area is on accessibility. Among other things, the aviation strategy addresses the needs of regional airports for support. It's very important. It is particularly important that the Government announces a review in the aviation strategy in order to clarify the role of the State as a provider of aid to non-State airports. The focus of the aviation strategy is to create long-term sustainable conditions for airports. The second focus area is to strengthen Arlanda as a hub. It was this government, not the previous bourgeois government, that set up an investigation into Arlanda and how to develop Arlanda as a major airport and important airport for the whole country. We are now moving forward on the basis of the proposals contained in the report and setting up a Arlanda Council that can seriously start working with Arlanda's development and ability to take the challenges of the future seriously. The third focus area is environmental and climate impact. Here we often have a debate when we discuss aviation questions about who should make the demands. Should we have international rules, or should we also be able to make national specifics? I think it's important that we do both. We must ensure at home that, for example, the development of new environmentally friendly aviation fuels is under way. The Aviation Strategy identifies a number of areas where the Swedish Energy Agency's mission to a fossil-free transport sector is part of seeing aviation as part of the work to weave in aviation. There are some funds for Vinnova that you point to to move to a more bio-driven economy. This does not mean that we are excluding international regulations. Essentially, it is the international regulatory framework through the EU and, above all, the ICAO that is important. It is important that we bring all countries into the regulatory framework. However, if things are going too slowly at international level, we still have to act at Swedish level. In this area, as the previous speaker said, the work on Single European Sky is also included. There we must ensure that we increase the pace of work that enables airlines to fly smarter, not to fly detours and thus reduce fuel consumption. This shall be done in conjunction with the technological development of the fleet development. The fourth focus area contained in the aviation strategy touches on the second announcement by the Alliance in this report. It concerns aviation safety and involves, among other things, a review of Swedish drone regulation. There is an announcement from the Swedish Democrats and the Alliance on this issue that together demands a Swedish drone strategy and a review of the legislation. Now we are doing the revision of the regulatory framework in the aviation strategy. I think that's good. Had this discussion taken place one or two years ago, I think I have been a little inclined to agree with the Alliance that we might need a strategy for drone development. However, in view of all that is happening now at European level and in the work carried out by the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, it is more important to ensure that this work goes ahead than to interrupt and start over with something else. The fifth focus area of the Government's aviation strategy is about fair conditions and fair competition. It is one of the most important areas of the aviation strategy. This is where we see the risk when you stare blindly at the price and say that there should be flights at the lowest price. Then we risk getting flights to the lowest conditions. That is how you create social dumping, for example, that you locate your home bases in the places where it is most economically profitable. We must counter this trend. The last two focus areas are research and innovation on the one hand and exports of Swedish goods and services on the other. This means that the aviation strategy is not in a vacuum for itself, but interacts with the new industrialisation strategy and the export strategy. Madam President, I would like Now we have a flight strategy, Sweden's first. It is this government that has decided on it and developed it. Now we can get to work. In this situation, the bourgeois alliance, together with the Swedish Democrats, chooses to say: Stop, back the band! Don't start the work. Do not start working on aid to regional airports. Don't start working on Arlanda's development. Don't start working on social conditions. We want to step back and say: Now we will develop a new aviation strategy. Madam President, I would like It brings a gleam of ridicule to the question. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1 and, in addition, of the committee's proposal in the report in those parts in which we do not have a reservation.
i-5RFASayBGhohHMVBLN8C8T	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Ann Linde. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-242	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. The background is that several forest owners have contacted me and expressed concern about what they perceive as a gradual erosion of ownership in the forest. We have problems with, for example, key biotopes, logging reports published online and extended speaking rights. Another of the problems that recurs concerns the Species Protection Regulation. There are a number of rewritten cases in which there have been impossible repercussions. Maybe the case of the box of lichens is what's most rewritten. In a letter to the Government in June, the Directors-General of the two responsible authorities, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, requested that a review of the Species Protection Regulation be carried out to ensure its applicability, effectiveness and legal certainty. Yet, nine months later and despite several pressures, nothing has happened. My question to the Government is, if and if so, when the Government intends to carry out the review requested in the letter.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-247	Mr President, I would like to The Species Protection Regulation is a very complex issue. Recently, the Land and Environment Court of Appeal has ruled on a ban on bomb mortars. It is clear that a practice is being put in place here. It has also been stated in that judgment that the legislator's intention is that the species protection regulation should not have such far-reaching consequences that it prohibits forestry without replacing the landowner or prohibits it altogether. This, of course, means that we need to review the legislation and adapt it to current practice. The nature of this investigation and its directives is currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-250	Mr President, I would like to The government says we need to do a review. We've established that. That is exactly what the Directors-General are calling for. I have repeatedly asked the question here: when will the government start this review? I'll put it back. Nine months have passed since the Directors-General wrote to the Government. Nothing yet has happened. When will the government launch the revision of the Species Protection Regulation?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-252	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the question is currently being prepared in the Government Office. The exact date we arrive at the directives cannot be stated today. However, it is an important and complex issue that needs to be addressed by reviewing the legislation.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-254	Mr President, I would like to Due to addiction, mental ill-health, debt, inadequate economy, relationship problems etc., approximately 35 000 people in Sweden find themselves in homelessness. Today, it is often civil society that helps these people survive and also helps them with temporary housing solutions. In 2014, the Government's homelessness coordinator submitted his final report. It has been quite a long time since then, and I feel that the government is not visible in the issues of homelessness. I would therefore like to ask what has happened to all the proposals of the homelessness coordinator. Since I do not really see the government on these issues, I also wonder who is responsible for the minister.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-258	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue raised by Sofia Modigh. It is indecent that people should live homeless and not have a roof over their heads. It is particularly shocking when children are also forced into this extremely precarious and vulnerable situation. It is very important to tackle the problem of homelessness. Mr President, I would like to I must reply that I am not up to date on what has happened to the coordinator's report. Unfortunately, I do not have that task and may return directly to Sofia Modigh with it. However, I note that this is an important and priority issue. It's about the decency of society that it stays together. Of course, civil society is making huge efforts, but this cannot rest solely on civil society and voluntary efforts. The municipalities have overall responsibility, and of course the government also has a responsibility.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-262	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its response and look forward to receiving a report on the report. But I wonder: apart from the proposals of the homelessness coordinator, does the government see any need for a unified national approach? Are there plans for a new national strategy? There was one of those before.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-264	Mr President, I would like to I would like to return more specifically directly to Sofia Modigh. I'm not up-to-date on the effects or how the government has handled the report. In general, I would like to say that this is a very important issue. It is totally unacceptable that people, not least children, should be forced to live in this very vulnerable situation. We need a community that stays together. We work with a community building to reduce the gaps, and of course efforts to both prevent and address homelessness are an important part of this.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-268	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs. At the moment, Sweden's rich bank is considering introducing a so-called e‐currency, i.e. a cashless society. In the government, the Minister for Home Affairs is responsible for both crisis preparedness and civil defence. My question is how the government views these considerations.
i-EvBAwvoG2KtBmqG8v3QjSa	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Allan Widman, for the question! The answer is that the government has not yet had reason to take a position on such a proposal.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-272	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that the Minister for the Interior is aware that a review of the Sveriges Riksbank Act, among other things, has been under way for almost a year now. My question is this: could supplementary directives, for example, make this issue the subject of consideration in this investigation?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-274	Mr President, I would like to This question should be addressed to Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund, who is responsible for that legislation.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-276	Mr President, I would like to Alternative facts and so-called fake news may not be entirely new, but it is now more problematic than in a long time. One example is that myths about vaccinations create difficult problems and challenges for health care. Another example is myths about international trade. Free trade in general and free trade agreements in particular are currently exposed to a situation similar to vaccination. Free trade is important for Sweden and Swedish welfare and a key part of the Swedish model.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the important question. It is relevant now to discuss fake news and false news. One of the best things we can do is to explain the fundamental link of trade: that trade accounts for about half of our GDP, that 1.4 million people have work to do thanks to trade and that there are many misconceptions about trade. The debate is rather about chlor-dipped chickens and that we will be forced to eat hormone-treated meat through the CETA agreement, which is not true. My answer to the question is that we should go back to what is most important, take out those parts and then answer the detailed questions according to the facts that exist, and all the time make sure that the facts apply, not all the myths that are flourishing.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-283	Mr President, I would like to So I would just like to ask briefly: is this work being carried out at European level too, and does this, like me, show the seriousness of this situation? There has always been a situation where mythology has been part of the social debate. At the moment, I think it has gotten worse, and then you may have to take a little more and take the strategies seriously. So my question to the Minister for Trade is: Is this work being carried out at European level as well?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-286	Mr President, I would like to I can answer a clear yes to that question. Only a week ago, all EU trade ministers met. Among other things, we had a joint dinner where we discussed the challenges facing trade: what is happening on the American side, Brexit and so on, and that it is difficult to have a factual discussion on trade in our Member States and that some do not take on the facts because they are against trade as such.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-288	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. 60 million people are on the run. This is the largest number since World War II. We in Sweden have taken a great responsibility as a nation, but within the country there is a big difference between the municipalities. Therefore, the legislation requiring all municipalities to receive new arrivals is important for sharing responsibility. It contributes to a fair distribution between municipalities and better establishment for individuals.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-291	Mr President, I would like to This is a major challenge for Sweden and our municipalities. The municipalities today receive and settle more new arrivals than they have ever done before. All municipalities receive more than before. It is a very great effort, and we have reason to say thank you to Sweden's municipalities for the great efforts they make. When I took office before the new instruction law was in place, there was a difference of 1 to 25 between the municipalities that received many, such as Lessebo, and those that received quite few, such as Vellinge. Even with the new law, which distributes new arrivals according to how many people have previously received, what labour market they have and the size of the municipalities, there is still a big difference between the municipalities. That's because a majority of people settle in, so-called EBO. So there are still large differences. The answer to the question is that we work in very close dialogue with the municipalities. I meet with SKL centrally but also directly together with the Minister for Housing, not least, to make it easier for the municipalities to meet their great and important responsibilities.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased to hear that there has been an improvement in distribution. But on the basis of what the Minister said about the continuing need, does the Government see the need for further efforts to improve the distribution between municipalities?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-297	Mr President, I would like to I do not rule out the need to continue working on legislation, but I would like to say that so far I am impressed by how well the municipalities have been able to respond to a very tough challenge. All municipalities receive and make great efforts. We know that we have a housing shortage in many of the country's municipalities. It is a problem that has escalated and grown over many years. Now we have started the construction of housing – it is at a record level – but more needs to be done to both continue with the construction of housing at a high rate and bring about temporary solutions.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-299	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Bucht. At the end of last week, the Swedish Forest Board's gd Herman Sundqvist went out to DN Debate and told us that he decided to pause the inventory of key biotopes in the entire northwest of Sweden. In fact, it is not the inventory that is paused – it has been paused for a long time – but now it is decided not to even register valuable natural areas that are discovered in connection with logging notifications. The decision has caused dismay and concern in the environmental movement, because it concerns old natural forests with high values in terms of biodiversity. In addition to the fact that the decision runs counter to the Government's ambitions to protect more valuable forests and to protect the environment in forestry, it raises concerns about confidence in the Swedish FSC certification of forest raw materials.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-303	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. This concerns a government decision, and as an individual minister, I will not value it. However, I have seen, like Stina Bergström, that the head of authority has, among other things, written a debate article in which he talks about the Authority's view that the method used today for the inventory of species is not adapted, reliable and good, especially when it comes to the northwestern part of Sweden. A break does not mean that it is free to go anyway. We know that we have responsible forest owners who have taken responsibility for these issues for a long time. What is clear from the head of the agency is that you now take a break, review the regulations and find a method that is better adapted to the stock that exists in northwestern Sweden.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. A break is a break. I think it's not like you're gonna stop felling. FSC certification rules do not allow key biotopes to be harvested, but it is not certain that all forest owners always know what needs to be protected. Even our state-owned company Sveaskog has difficulty with this and has been dotted by FSC. I still wonder, Minister: can I, as a consumer of forest products, feel safe during the break that valuable trees that should be saved are not harvested before an inventory is made?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-309	Mr President, I would like to In general, I can say that we can feel safe with Swedish forestry. Most forest owners do this in an exemplary way. Of course, it may be wrong at some point, but a break is a break. Now we are going to review and find a better method so that we can protect the species better. This will be done together with forestry and environmental organisations.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-312	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. There is a lot we could talk about regarding school today, but when Gustav Fridolin, who should have taken my questions, is not here and the Government may not have this as its main area, I may ask questions that we might be able to talk about, at least. The issue concerns the recent high-profile rapes that have taken place in schools. Raped at school – seriously – does the government hear how bad it sounds? Not a day goes by that we can read about violence and nasty things happening in schools today. Unfortunately, the school is perhaps just a microcosm of what society looks like, and that is the main area of government. I have asked the question before, and it comes again: When has the right to go into the ordinary school system been exhausted? We have just received regulations, OSA, which concern the working environment of teachers in preschool and school. When do we get an OSA for the students who go to school? When are our good students going to get a chance at school? Perhaps it would help if we could come up with national guidelines on sexual harassment at school?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-318	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, totally unacceptable that any person should be subjected to rape. It will be particularly upsetting if we are talking about underage children in school. It is, of course, a tragedy every time such abuse occurs, and everything must be done to prevent it from happening. The answer to the question is that the Work Environment Act also applies at school in the same way as at other workplaces and in society in general. It is also important that the school cooperates with others – as they do – for example with the police and social services, in order to ensure that you have a safe and good working environment for everyone at school, not least for the students.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-320	Mr President, I would like to Does the Government really think it is reasonable for convicted rapists to attend the same school as ordinary children? Isn't the life and safety of our children more important than that? I know that there is something called compulsory schooling; as a teacher for 15 years, I am well acquainted with it. But these girls who are being raped and about whom we can read-- even boys who are being raped-- are someone's children. It's about their lives and their future. When will that be enough? For me, it's simple. Persons convicted of serious crime should not go to school with ordinary students. It is the damned right of these ordinary students to actually be safe in school.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-322	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, it is not only those who have once committed crimes that can commit new crimes. What the school has to ensure is, above all, that no one is exposed to crime, especially the type of serious crime that rape is. At all, however, there is no acceptance at all for any student to be afraid of being subjected to violence on his school day.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-323	Mr President, I would like to For a long time, the Swedish Forest Agency has registered and surveyed key biotopes in Sweden. This has been done so that we can better protect our forest. A key biotop is a forest area with very large natural values. It can be old forest, areas with red-listed species and so on. These are therefore crucial areas in order to achieve our environmental objectives on biodiversity or, for example, living forests. It has been a political task for the Swedish Forest Agency to carry out this work with key biotopes. That is why many of us were bouncing when we read the Director General's debate article, where he says that he is interrupting this work for an area as large as about half of Sweden.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-326	Mr President, I would like to I was asked this question recently, and I have to repeat that this is a government decision that I as a minister should not go in and value. But what the head of authority very clearly states in the debate article in DN a week ago is that you take a break to find a better method. I have no reason to question the Authority's decision to develop a better method. During this break, the Swedish Forest Agency will of course continue its supervisory activities regardless of whether you are working to find a better method or not.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-328	Mr President, I would like to However, if it is a decision that is clearly contrary to our politically set objectives in this area that we should have living forests, which are one of our 16 environmental objectives that we do not achieve today, then I think that the whole government, and in particular the minister responsible, has a responsibility to ensure that we achieve this objective. Does the Minister really mean that he will not take any steps to ensure that the protected forest is not harvested? This is the obvious risk when key biotopes are no longer registered.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-330	Mr President, I would like to We shall have living forests; that is a political objective. But there is no decision to say that we must not find better methods. This is what the Swedish Forest Agency reports, i.e. that it wants to find better and effective methods for us to have living forests. It is therefore in no way free of charge here, but it is a pause in which the Authority, together with the industry and environmental organisations, will develop more effective methods.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-332	Mr President, I would like to My question is also addressed to Minister Bucht. It is about the government's attitude towards the discussions, and even negotiations, currently taking place in Brussels on forests and how to use our soil resources in Europe. I – but also Sweden, including the Swedish Government, I would say – do not like parts of what the European Commission has proposed, namely that the Brussels system should establish, in principle, how much we are going to get off our forest resources in our country. With regard to the mandate given to the government in the Brussels system by Parliament's European Council, for example, it is also said that we should retain our national self-determination on this issue.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-335	Mr President, I would like to The government is very clear about this. It shall be decided at national level on the forest. It is not a decision to be taken at EU level. It is also regulated in the EU Treaties.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-336	Mr President, I would like to I assume, then, that the Government will give the officials who negotiate on this the instructions they need in order to fulfil the mandate given to the Government on this matter.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-337	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that the government will give instructions to the officials involved in these discussions.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-338	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Linde a question about the CETA agreement. In response to a motion I wrote last year, it was said that it is important that we have a very solid basis when deciding on such complex and comprehensive trade agreements. It was specifically said that the Swedish Data Protection Authority, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the Swedish Work Environment Authority should be given a special task to look at this agreement and give opinions. It is particularly important that we be careful to make a good assessment of this agreement because there will be more and even more comprehensive agreements with other parties in the future. That is why I was very surprised when, in an answer to a question in January, the Government said that what is now planned to be completed by the National Board of Trade would not be sent out for consultation. My question, therefore, is whether I have misunderstood this. Will it be a proper consultation procedure so that all the relevant authorities have the opportunity to give a factual and sound opinion?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-341	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Schlyter for the question. This type of agreement is not sent out for consultation when the Government submits a proposal to the Riksdag. This has been the case, for example, with the EU's free trade agreement with Korea, Colombia and Peru. This also applies to the bill on the Paris climate agreement, which was prepared and decided by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Instead, it is during the negotiations that views are sought. In the run-up to this Council's various decisions on the negotiations, the Government has consulted the EU Board and held an ongoing dialogue with the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Swedish authorities have been involved and continue to participate, as usual, in Swedish positions in the EU work, throughout the negotiation process. We are now waiting to receive the reply from the National Board of Trade, in consultation with several authorities, on 1 May. It will, of course, be entirely public so that everyone can take part in it. I'm sure we'll have more discussions.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-345	Mr President, I would like to Parliament is, of course, aware of this, and it has been written in particular in the report that we know about it. But the Riksdag has nevertheless said, because these agreements are comprehensive and also affect how authorities should work and possibly also how we should make decisions and the structures around it in the Swedish Parliament in the future, that we want to analyse this carefully and well and that we want it to be passed around to these authorities so that we get as solid a basis as possible. There is a difference between analysing an agreement before the text is finished and when it is finished.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-346	Mr President, I would like to The texts that will come on 1 May, when the National Board of Trade has consulted all the different authorities, will of course be public. Then the Riksdag has to take a position on the agreement itself, and it is a binary decision – you say yes or no to the agreement. It is not that you can influence the text of the agreement then, but you have to do so earlier in the process. I believe that the process has been very transparent and solid, and I hope that all Members feel well informed.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-348	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson, who, at the moment – or perhaps permanently – does not have very high credibility in terms of the use of figures, but it is precisely figures I am going to ask about. Unemployment is divided into what is cyclically based and what can be influenced by political decisions, i.e. structural unemployment or equilibrium unemployment. Gender equality unemployment is particularly important at the moment as it has a greater impact on integration and the local economy. The Institute of Economics, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and others have stated that not one of Ylva Johansson, or the entire government's, political decisions reduces equilibrium unemployment. They are estimated to cost about 12 billion – 6 billion in increased expenses for grants and 6 billion in reduced tax revenues.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-351	Mr President, I would like to I understand that you have problems, Niklas Wykman, because when you ruled you said you did good things, but the reality went in the opposite direction. Unemployment increased and public finances were destroyed. Youth unemployment, in particular, was extremely high. Since we took office, developments are moving in the right direction. Employment is on the increase; new figures from the Central Statistical Office's AKU were published at the latest today. Unemployment is falling, and we are showing surpluses in public finances since we took office. We plan to continue with this. Of course, policy must be adapted to the changes in reality. One problem that has existed for many years and, I would say, still exists in labour market policy is that it does not change quickly enough on the basis of the changing circumstances that exist and therefore risks taking measures that are not right in the particular economic situation in which it finds itself. Overall, the government's policy is clearly heading in the right direction. Unemployment is falling.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-353	Mr President, I would like to Then came the devastating list of floats again. I therefore intend to repeat the question, Ylva Johansson. The Institute of Economics and the Swedish Financial Control Agency – all of them – states that the government's policy does not lead to lower equilibrium unemployment. Not one of the political proposals put forward by the government reduces unemployment. Why have you not made such a suggestion?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-354	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the young people who have now got a job think it is flosskeler. The high employment rate means that more people are going to work today than ever before. They are people of flesh and blood, and they have a real job and make a living on their own wages. I don't think they call it flosskeler. The problem for your Moderates, Niklas Wykman, is that you have always been wrong in your forecasts. You said that if we restored employers' contributions for young people, youth unemployment would increase. It didn't. It's sinking. You said that if we restored unemployment insurance to a decent level, unemployment would increase. It hasn't. It's sinking. Sweden is now moving in the right direction.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-356	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. This morning the so-called Security Policy Council met to discuss the serious situation of shootings and gang crime and how the police can act in the particularly vulnerable areas. What I have seen in the media since the press conference with the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Interior, Mr President, is the statement that crime should be broken. I've been looking into this by breaking crime and gang crime. You can go back to last year, and you can see that the government wanted to break this. It was said in Almedalen, in November and a week ago. Today, this was repeated by breaking gang crime. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Interior: what was the conclusion of the meeting? What came out of this important meeting, besides the Prime Minister's statement that he will analyse the analysis?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-359	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Roger Haddad! I'm glad you're closely following my meetings with the Prime Minister. This was a meeting where we met with leading representatives of the 14 authorities working together against serious organised crime. Most of what came out at the meeting was that the efforts made nationally to take out leading gang members and organised crime now had to become local in the most socially vulnerable areas. We must therefore work together between the various authorities to eliminate serious organised crime locally. This has been done on trials in Vivalla, and we are now rolling it out in Rosengård and Malmö. Then, of course, additional resources need to be provided to the police. The government has contributed over SEK 2 billion to the police over the next few years. Further legislation is also needed, and the government has submitted over 80 proposals from the Ministry of Justice and tightened up over 30 laws.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-362	Mr President, I would like to Cooperation between authorities in the fight against serious organised crime is absolutely nothing new, but it has been going on for years. Shooting and gang crime are not new either. We have seen it in Gothenburg and Malmö and now in Stockholm. It is therefore incomprehensible, Mr President, that the Minister for the Interior and the Prime Minister are once again standing at the same press conference, about in the same place, telling them that they are now going to get to grips with this. Now they're going to break the serious organized crime. What's new?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-364	Mr President, I would like to I commended Roger Haddad for following the meeting and press conference. It turned out to be a mistake. Of course, it will not be a single measure that will break serious organised crime. We have presented 80 proposals and made over 30 pieces of legislation. We have made substantial reinforcements to the police's budget. This work will continue, because our goal is simple: the serious organised gang crime should be broken.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-366	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. Last week, as you know, the investigation into taking people on the run was handed over. There is much to be said about the commission and scope of the investigation, but something that has emerged in it is that the July forecast provided by the Migration Agency regarding the number of asylum seekers who would come to Sweden in 2015 proved quite directly wrong and that the Government Office was informed about this. In February 2016, the Minister of State was appointed as Minister of Establishment, and in April the Prime Minister was called to the KU for a Question Time about how to deal with the crisis and what they knew. I assume that prior to this meeting the Council of State responsible for the issues was consulted. My question is whether Ylva Johansson shares the view that the Government Office did not know that the July forecast was wrong in principle immediately after it had been submitted.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-369	Mr President, I would like to The work in the government is so distributed that it is I who have ordered the report that Paula Bieler is asking about. Consequently, I am the minister who will answer questions about it. The government, of course, is not concerned with correcting the government's forecasts. The authorities have regular forecasting work. The July forecast Paula Bieler refers to showed that the number of asylum seekers to Sweden fell after Germany had changed its position on the Dublin Regulation. So did the prognosis. What then happened, and the information Paula Bieler refers to, was that the number of refugees to Europe increased – not that the number of asylum seekers to Sweden would increase. There was no one who could predict at that time that the border systems of all countries would collapse and that people would cross the borders all the way up to Sverig by. This information was not available either at the Government Office, at the Finnish Immigration Service or in any other country in the EU.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-372	Mr President, I would like to I can see that there are many different views on the concept. A number of people have raised the fact that there are of course many more who are seeking to Sweden; among other things, a minister's colleague has pointed out that this will clearly be the case with the regulations we have had in Sweden. However, my question remains. The Migration Board has itself gone out and said that it announced to the Government Office that the forecast it submitted was incorrect, in principle immediately after it had been submitted. Is the transmission of information within the Government Office so poor that the government cannot take on such essential information?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-374	Mr President, I would like to Paula Bieler either goes untruthful or has not taken note of the evaluation that has been made. The information referred to in this investigation is about the influx of refugees into Europe – that there were people moving in Asia and Africa. There was no information about the refugee influx to Sweden being affected by this. The forecast made by the Migration Board in July was about this and not about what Paula Bieler is trying to make it about.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-376	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Anders Ygeman. What is reported in several parts of the country is gang crime. I recently visited Borås, where there was a concern that a great many young people are involved in this gang crime. At the same time, we hear that the police have arrested people with sharp-charged weapons and that they have been released again after only a few hours.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-380	Mr President, I would like to The government wants to double the penalties for serious gun crimes and for hand grenades and explosives. This will provide mandatory detention. It will also allow police and law enforcement authorities to use secret coercive measures, i.e. bugging and secret telephone tapping. With this, anyone who goes out with a sharp - loaded weapon or has a sharp - loaded weapon in the car, if arrested by the police, risks not coming home for two years.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-382	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his answer. In Denmark, on-call courts have also been used to speed up prosecution. How does the Minister of the Interior view this as a potential solution?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-384	Mr President, I would like to The government has set up an inquiry into on-call courts, and this summer there will be proposals for a pilot project on speeding up prosecution. I have noted that there are several parties in Parliament who support such a proposal, and I see in my view that it will therefore be possible to do so.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-386	Mr President, I would like to I address Mr Ylva Johansson, Minister for Labour and Establishment. The paper I'm holding now shows a picture of Dominic. He came to Sweden ten years ago. Dominic has been here to make his dreams come true. Most of this time he has worked as a chef, nowadays as a chef. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, this is one of the labour shortage areas in Sweden. Dominic works, does the right thing, pays taxes. He is a valued employee and also a popular citizen of society. Now Dominic is in danger of being expelled. The reason is that two years ago his employer made a mistake by not paying a pay bonus of SEK 500 for two months. Since it was a mistake, this was obviously adjusted directly retroactively. Then why am I lifting this case? Unfortunately, this is not the only example of how authorities today land completely wrong in their assessment. This is a human error that was committed two years ago by a third party, which Dominic basically could not influence. Is it reasonable that this is government policy? When will the government come back to change these directives?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-392	Mr President, I would like to No, Cecilia Widegren – this is not reasonable. It is quite unreasonable that this kind of simple mistake – that you have forgotten to pay out, or that it separated a few crowns on a payout – should lead to people having to leave the country. I and the government think that this is completely unreasonable. This is the legislation that was introduced when you had government power. Unfortunately, Dominic is not the only case, but we have seen several such cases. Therefore, the government set up an investigation to come up with proposals for changes to the regulations for labour immigration. The investigation made its proposals just before Christmas. These are now being consulted, if I am properly informed, and will then be prepared in the Government Office. The investigation suggests that it will be easy to correct this type of mistake, so that you do not have to leave the country.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-396	Mr President, I would like to It's very easy to beat your chest and say we're gonna figure this out. However, it does not help Dominic, who now has two weeks left in Sweden, as the announcement is right now. The government last met today. The government can make decisions every week to fix things that are not right, where human mistakes cause mistakes. The government could have solved this today, or last Thursday, instead of referring to an investigation that will come later. Perhaps it is reasonable to act here and now as Minister of Establishment. When will the government act?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-399	Mr President, I would like to I have to correct Cecilia Widegren. It is the Riksdag that makes laws, often on a proposal from the Government. The law in force was passed by the Riksdag during the previous parliamentary term. The authorities have to apply applicable laws. The government must not, according to the Constitution, influence and go in and talk about how an authority should interpret the law. The government can therefore act in no other way than by amending the law. Now we have set up an investigation that has produced proposals that are out for consultation. We will come back to these proposals so that Parliament can take a position on legislative changes.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-403	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for European Affairs and Trade Ann Linde, and it touches on the previous question of free trade by Mr Björck. Free and fair trade is extremely important for a small, export-dependent country like Sweden. Free and fair trade opens doors for more companies and can contribute to peace and development worldwide. Unfortunately, we have recently seen worrying protectionist tendencies, both in our own neighbourhood and on the other side of the Atlantic. I therefore wonder how the Minister views the future of the agreements which have been negotiated and which now appear to be rocking.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-406	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. Generally speaking, I am very concerned about free trade. The policy now being pursued by the US administration means tightening up and applying protectionism. Trade agreements that have already been negotiated, such as the TPP agreement with Asia, have been rejected. They want to renegotiate Nafta, and they have said nothing about the large free trade agreement between the US and the EU. That is why it is very important that we try to work on the trade agreements that the EU is actually negotiating right now. These relate, for example, to Japan, Mexico, Chile, Mercosur, the Philippines and Tunisia. I think it is extremely important that we now stand up for free trade, not least because Sweden is so economically dependent on it. But the situation is serious and worrying.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-410	Mr President, I would like to Many thanks for your answer! I very much appreciate that the government is showing such commitment. I'd like to follow up on what you said by asking which way the minister thinks is most accessible? Which of the trade agreements can we hope for most?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-412	Mr President, I would like to Of the negotiations currently under way with the European Union, I believe that the agreement with Japan is what we can hope for, perhaps already this summer. It can also be seen that several of the countries with which we are negotiating have become more interested in finding solutions with the EU when the US market will now in principle be closed, as Donald Trump does not want trade with other regions.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-414	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask my question to the Home Secretary. Under Folk och Försvar, the Minister for the Interior said about food self-sufficiency that we have to rely on our neighbours in the event of a crisis. In the event of a crisis, by sea, both Finland and Denmark would most likely be excluded. Is it Norway that the Minister intends to help us in the event of a crisis? And does the Minister think that Sweden's food readiness is good?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-417	Mr President, I would like to I can partly understand Magnus Oscarsson's fear of having to survive in a crisis situation on goat cheese and hide, but the quote is unfortunately not correctly reproduced and not in its proper context. The basis must be national food security and perhaps even regional food security. What I said was that most scenarios that are processed do not assume that Sweden will be completely cut off from its surroundings and that we can thus have a limited trade with other countries. I think this is an assessment that Magnus Oscarsson also shares. I also said that the level of self-sufficiency is not a good measure of how good our food readiness is, because it also includes a number of goods, such as wine and pineapple, which may not be vital in a crisis or crisis.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-421	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! Finland is a good example. There they have a food readiness in about six months. Sweden has a food readiness of seven to ten days, and here in the capital Stockholm we are talking about two days, then the shelves are empty. Is it about time to start with emergency stocks, or should we rely on Ica's central warehouse?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-424	Mr President, I would like to I don't think the alternatives look like Magnus Oscarsson describes them. And I don't believe in going back to Cold War security. However, we need to do more to strengthen Swedish food production. We need to do more to strengthen resilience in Swedish food production, i.e. release us from inputs with a great need from outside. For example, we need to break large parts of our dependence on oil in Swedish food production in order to cope better with a crisis situation.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-426	Mr President, I would like to During the time of the Alliance, a hunting team investigation was set up to ensure that there would be a coherent policy and a holistic approach to hunting-related and game conservation issues. When the new government took office, soon three years ago, it chose to close this investigation. Today there is no coherent policy in this area. In view of the decisions taken by the government that reduce the interest of landowners and hunters in farming, it is highly relevant to ask Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht about this. The Parliament has issued an announcement to establish a hunting and game authority that would have to take the overall approach to the issues of hunting and game conservation. Now it's been almost three years in government. My question to the Minister is therefore: when does the Minister intend to come to Parliament with a decision on a new authority?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-429	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. As a government, we must, of course, carefully consider what forms we have for the exercise of authority. It must be effective and sustainable. We are looking at the question of a hunting authority, but it is also about being able to finance it. I understand that under the alliance government, when there was only a deficit, it was not possible to set up such authorities. The economic capacity is a little better today, but it must be an effective authority so that we do not waste more money than necessary.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-431	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am a little worried when the government representative announces that they are not going to do what the Riksdag has announced to the government to do. Of course, new authorities need to be carefully considered before they are set up – I agree – but in this case we have been investigating for three years without receiving a signal as to where it is going. I am a little worried that there will be more questions that Parliament has announced that the government will not do anything about, because it does not want to.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-434	Mr President, I would like to The government has been in office for two and a half years, and there were very many hunting issues that were unresolved when we took over. We have worked very intensively to achieve a functioning wolf hunt, a functioning mountain hunt and so on. This issue is also something we are looking at. However, the Agency must be effective and effective and be able to strengthen both hunting and game management.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-436	Mr President, I would like to One third of the population lives in Sweden's countryside, and I am pleased that we have a government that has high ambitions in rural policy. The Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development has presented 75 proposals for development. E n food strategy has been developed, a forest programme is being consulted and the tourism industry is being investigated. All of this is important for rural areas. What is also important is access to services and trade. I read about Elisabeth Gunnarsson, who for 15 years has been the manager of the Shop in Häradsbäck, Småland with 200 inhabitants. The threat of having to close down the store has been constantly present. But she says that the new operating aid, which gave the village-owned shop $28,000 last year, came as a gift from above, and now they're talking about betting instead. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht how the investment in operating aid for trade and rural areas has gone and whether we have several happy examples like that in Häradsbäck.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-440	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It is very important for Swedish rural areas that we have a functioning food supply and shops that can provide not only food but also fuel, pharmacy service, parcel delivery and more. We have had a very negative development for ten years in Sweden. Rural shops have declined from about 2 900 to 1,200. That is why, as Mrs Anna-Anna-Caren mentions, the government has initiated an operating aid of 35 million. We will have the first evaluation now in April, but I have already received signals that it is very well received. Even one of the leading people in Axfood says that shop death has ended in Sweden's countryside.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-443	Mr President, I would like to That is good news, Minister for Rural Affairs. What is the government's view on continuing long-term investment in this type of operating aid that goes far out in rural areas? That's my question. Then, of course, I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome the Minister up to Bräcke and Ragunda Municipality and to Jämtland tomorrow.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-446	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the welcome! I'm making my trip to Sweden now. In just over a month I have been in 23 different rural municipalities. It'll be Jämtland tomorrow. Investment aid for rural shops, which we have raised substantially, is currently 88 million a year. It is about being able to modernize the stores, replace the freezer and fridge, rebuild the stores. It is important in the long term that we get these support in place so that the shops can develop into service points that can offer a broad service to rural people.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-448	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. On Sunday's Agenda, we saw evidence of the government's work on returning terrorists from the Islamic State. Alice Bah Kuhnke argued that municipalities have successfully de-radicalized terrorists who may have spent the last six months burning living people in steel cages. Now, of course, the claim about de-radicalisations was not true, but even if it were, there is a fundamental error in the government's attitude towards these terrorists. Why should our society spend resources trying to de-radicalise them? What is the point of even allowing them to retain their Swedish citizenship and thereby secure their income with a lifetime grant? It doesn't make any sense. Will the Social Democrats and the government ever propose that at least those who have dual citizenship be deprived of their Swedish citizenship, so that we can expel them for life from our country? I believe that the Swedish people are very interested in the government's position on this issue.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-453	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Adam Marttinen, for the question! The answer is no. There is a very small proportion of those who have gone off and fought in Iraq and in Syria who have dual citizenship. It is also a very small proportion of those who have gone and fought in Ukraine who have dual citizenship. It is simply not a powerful or effective measure. On the other hand, the government and a large majority in the Riksdag have taken a wide range of other effective measures, including a strong strengthening of the Security Service's budget, in order to keep track of those who may return from this type of war cores.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-456	Mr President, I would like to For the Swedish Democrats, it is crystal clear. If you choose the Islamic State, you deny yourself the right to live under the freedom of democracy. If you choose the war of terror, you must face all the consequences of the war. In the world of Social Democrats, these terror killers will be offered dialogue support and life support by Swedish taxpayers. I can only see it as the government, through its position, indirectly standing as the financiers of the war of terror. I regret this from the bottom of my heart, and above all it applies to all those who fall victim to the progress of Islamists.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-459	Mr President, I would like to A lie doesn't come true because you put it in an upset voice. Those who have committed guilty crimes must be convicted in court, and in Sweden is the penalty for murder life imprisonment. That and nothing else applies to murderers. No man has the right to provide for the state. Any suspected of a crime shall be subject to a preliminary investigation. It shall be tried by a court of law. If you have been guilty of murder, it is under Swedish law life imprisonment that applies. Don't pretend anything else, Adam Marttinen!
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-462	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. There is currently a shortage of labour in a number of professions. The shortage is an obstacle to growth and well-being in Sweden. Then it is good that the opportunity exists to recruit workers from other countries. In my hometown of Borås there is Vevens Mekaniska who was in vain looking for the necessary skills at home. To grow, create additional jobs and contribute to Swedish welfare, they have therefore recruited four specialists from Ukraine. After just over six months, they finally got their work permits, but the next bureaucratic challenge arose: personal identity numbers. They are a prerequisite for the Vevens to be able to pay their wages properly and for the workers to pay their taxes. All the papers are in order, and the workers are at their workplace. However, the Swedish Tax Agency's announcement is that it will be at least eight weeks before a social security number can be issued. There's a lot of frustration. Does Minister Ylva Johansson consider it reasonable that it should take months to issue a personal identity number? If not, what measures does the Government intend to take to shorten the excessive length of proceedings?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-468	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Cecilie-Toftby for a very important issue. Of course, such long waiting periods are not reasonable. We have a positive situation with a strong growth of new jobs, but many of those jobs are difficult to fill with people with the right skills in our country. That is why we need to invest in education. However, it must also be easy for employers to recruit the workforce they need, such as specialist skills or specially trained staff, from other countries. That is also why we need to modernise the legislation we have on labour immigration so that we do not risk being convicted because of simple mistakes that the employer can make. The answer to the question is: No, such long waiting times are not reasonable. This is something that the government wants to remedy.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-472	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer, although it is unfortunately not very helpful to those affected. The long processing time creates unsustainable situations for employers, workers and the Swedish labour market. As the CEO of the Vevens Mechanical says: The only thing we ask is that it should take a reasonable time to get their personal identity number when everything else is bureaucratically done by the employees and the company.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-475	Mr President, I would like to I share the outrage. It must be quick and easy for employers who need to recruit specialised workers from other countries. Today it takes too long and is too messy. We need to find simpler ways to solve this.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-477	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ann Linde. What happens to relations with Britain after Brexit is a big question mark both politically and economically. At home in Vårgårda and Herrljunga there are several smaller companies with competitive goods that do well on the international market. Several companies sell goods on the UK market, including Spreaders, Herrljunga Cider and Herrljunga Terazzo. Will they be affected by Brexit? Will they need to take action? What are their conditions for continuing to trade with the UK? What can the Minister say about this so far?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-481	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. Unfortunately, in the longer term it looks problematic for Swedish companies. Yesterday I received an investigation from the National Board of Trade which shows that what happens when Brexit strikes, i.e. basically two years after the notification has been submitted, is only negative. However, ways can be found to mitigate what is negative. If the trade patterns look like they did in 2015, this means for Swedish companies an additional customs cost on everything they import of 2.2 billion. Food, road vehicles and clothing, among other things, will be affected. We will try to get a free trade agreement as soon as possible. However, as Britain has said that it also wants to leave the Customs Union, it will be difficult.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-485	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Of course, small and medium-sized enterprises are more so in this process than multinationals. It is therefore important that Sweden defends trade with the UK and therefore jobs and investments in Herrljunga, Vårgårda and around the country. We look forward to the government continuing to safeguard free trade and the possibility for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in the European market.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-488	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the honourable Member that this must be the Swedish line. At the same time, it is quite unreasonable for us to have a complete free trade agreement once Brexit strikes two years after notification. This means that there will be duties for importing companies from day one. This means that we must ensure that companies are informed of what is happening. Among other things, I and Minister Bucht will have a seminar for the food industry on what this will mean.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-490	Mr President, I would like to The new EU arms directive was voted through on Tuesday. There are many of us who think that the directive hits law-abiding arms owners hard, while it is almost ineffective against terrorists and serious criminals. On several occasions, Minister Anders Ygeman has promised that the directive will not affect Swedish hunters and sportsmen. How does the Minister intend to fulfill his promise?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-492	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg says that many are opposed to the EU weapons directive. However, this does not apply to the moderate parliamentary group, which has fully supported this in the EU Board. Nor does it apply to the moderate group in the European Parliament, which has been the driving force in bringing about the compromise that exists. Where Boriana Åberg herself stands, she can perform herself. The weapons directive is ready and to be investigated. I don't see any major changes coming for Sweden's sportsmen and hunters. The reason is that Sweden has a high level of protection. However, Sweden is very valiant of what the directive puts an end to, including reactivation of weapons and weapons that have been used in terrorist attacks. Even the most dangerous types of weapons that have been used in terrorist attacks are banned. This strengthens the EU's security but does not affect Sweden's arms owners.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-495	Mr President, I would like to It's a good thing there's going to be an investigation. Can the Minister guarantee that the officials of the Ministry of Justice who have dealt with the matter so far and who have acted on certain occasions directly against the wishes of the Riksdag will be kept away from the investigation?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-496	Mr President, I would like to I don't understand what Boriana Åberg means at all. There will be an investigation by the government. I will ensure that the directives for this investigation have broad support in Parliament. I am convinced that the outcome of the investigation will also have broad support in Parliament and that the rather confused criticism that has occurred so far will fall flat to the ground.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-498	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister Bucht. Swedish countryside today needs good conditions to reverse trends with urbanisation and stagnation, which has been going on for many years. In this, beach protection is important. We have been wrestling with the issue of beach protection for many years. There have been various moves and suggestions in the light of time, but nothing has happened. In some municipalities there are more lakes than residents. Both Sven-Erik-Erik and I know what it looks like, because we live in the countryside. Does the Minister for Rural Development intend to take any measures with regard to beach protection to facilitate positive development in rural areas?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-502	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question. Strandskydd is not handled by me but by Minister Karolina Skog, but I encounter the question very often when I am out in Swedish countryside. I can say this: there is not a single rural municipality that has not addressed this issue. This is important for those who live there so that they can live and build in beautiful, better locations. The Strand Protection Delegation pointed this out in its investigation when it looked at the legislation in force and adopted in broad agreement by the Parliament in 2009. The delegation saw that there are problems here. The Rural Committee has also raised the issue. We have every reason to speed up the analyses to make changes that make it possible to build even in attractive rural locations.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-505	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your good answer! Just as you describe, there have been trolls in the matter. As the government is pursuing an offensive rural policy, I would like to point out that this is also a rural issue, as you say, even if it falls under the responsibility of another minister of state. I just want to make sure that in your role you are working energetically on the issue in the future. For all municipalities, this is very high on the agenda.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-506	Mr President, I would like to I guarantee and promise that I will work very energetically on this issue.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-508	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Ylva Johansson. For over a year, the conflict in the port of Gothenburg has been going on. In a workplace where there should be a duty of peace and where national collective agreements exist, the activities are constantly disrupted, every day, by blockades and strikes. A great deal of effort has been made to resolve the issue through the negotiation process. The Government has also called the Mediation Institute, whose results are not satisfactory. Unfortunately, they have had until the end of the year to resolve the conflict. This is serious. We need action now. What measures does Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson and the Government intend to take to bring the conflict to an end in the port of Gothenburg?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-510	Mr President, I would like to The situation in the port of Gothenburg and other ports is recognised. The background is that there is an agreement between the LO Association Transport and the port, while there is an independent trade union, the Port Workers' Union, which takes action in combat. The question has been raised several times in the Labour Court, and there is a practice that is followed. This practice describes what the conflict looks like and whether you stay within your constitutional right to strike or if you cross the border and threaten an existing collective agreement. This is happening. I am concerned about the situation, I would say. Against this background, I have given a special mandate to the Mediation Institute to return with a survey of similar situations. I just want to make a correction. The government has not called the Mediation Institute to resolve the conflict. However, in various contexts, the parties have asked for assistance from the Mediation Institute.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-513	Mr President, I would like to What is needed in the situation is government initiatives. There is no solution to the conflict as it stands now. Two proposals have been rejected, and now only the legislative path is a fruitful one. We risk Swedish business and society as a whole. I therefore wonder whether Ylva Johansson and the government are prepared to request rapid changes in legislation in this area.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-514	Mr President, I would like to Let me first make it clear that, as Minister for Labour, I do not have any views on an ongoing labour market conflict. It is up to the parties to deal with the ongoing conflict. They can ask for help from the Mediation Institute to solve this and have done so during a few rounds. However, I am concerned about a situation in which an employer is subjected to combat measures despite the fact that he has bought himself a duty of peace through collective agreements. Against this background, I have commissioned the Mediation Institute to return with a survey. This is the work of the Mediation Institute.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-516	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish forest is our green gold. The forest creates the conditions for jobs and growth, and it is extremely important as part of the solution to the climate challenge. However, there is now a serious threat to Swedish forestry, namely the European Commission's proposal for new rules on land use and climate, the so-called LULUCF rules. One of the proposals is to introduce a felling ceiling. The risk is that it will have absolutely devastating consequences for Swedish forestry, for Swedish forest industry and for our ambition to change society and phase out fossil energy. Sweden must fight with beaks and claws to stop rules that limit Swedish forestry and that deprive us of national self-determination over forest issues.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-519	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. LULUCF is handled by the Minister for Climate Change Isabella Lövin, but I am well acquainted with the issue because it concerns the forest. The forest is extremely important for us to be able to manage the climate. A growing forest is the best thing there is to reduce carbon dioxide. I also received a question earlier about the regulatory framework from Eskil Erlandsson. The Swedish Government is very clear that decisions on forests should be taken at national level. It should not be taken at EU level. This is a clear position of the government.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-521	Mr President, I would like to I am a little concerned that the Minister for Rural Development, who is responsible for forestry policy, is obviously not getting more involved in this matter. This is perhaps a crucial future issue for Swedish forestry, Swedish forest industry and for rural areas and job creation there. This worries me. Let me ask you a question of control, Mr President, on how to look at the mandate we have given: can the government accept a regulatory framework in which logging may be regarded as emissions due to reference levels even though either deforestation or emissions occur?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-523	Mr President, I would like to This question is handled by Minister Isabella Lövin. As far as commitment to forestry is concerned, I can guarantee that it is very large, regardless of whether it is the Minister for Climate Change or the Minister for Rural Development who deals with them. I am working particularly intensively at EU level with other forest countries to find a consensus on the issues. Above all, the southern countries of the European Union have a completely different view of the forest from what we forest countries may have.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-526	Mr President, I would like to This week I have been enriched with the praoeleven Märta Lindström, grade 8 at Musikuglan in Karlskrona. She has concerns about the judgment of the European Court of Justice that came this week. It means that it is not discriminatory for an employer to refuse an employee to wear religious symbols. The employer can decide which policy should apply at the workplace. This was caused, among other things, by a female engineer in France having received complaints when she was wearing a headcloth. This will now be tested in the French court. The question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson is: How does she view the judgment? Does the Minister think that it may affect the Swedish labour market?
i-QrDE5QKnAhgawnLoQ5itMw	Mr President, I would like to Hello, Märta Lindström! This is a judgment from the European Court of Justice. It is not easy to say what effects it might have on Swedish practice. I think I'd like a little piece of wood here. I believe that I shall refrain from drawing any far-reaching conclusions about the effects that judgment may have in Sweden in the future. But let me answer this: In working life it is in many ways natural that the employer can make demands on clothing and often also do so. These may be safety reasons, but also fitness reasons. For example, the employer may decide to wear uniform or neutral clothing. If I am properly informed, this judgment was that one cannot prohibit the expression of a particular religion, but that it is possible for the employer to say that no employee should express religion with his clothing.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-531	Mr President, I would like to This is not an easy question. Of course, it has to be discussed. Freedom of religion has and must have strong constitutional protection in Sweden, while for example veiling or embellishment can have a direct impact on how to perform certain tasks. It's definitely a delicate question. To develop this a little bit: both Märta and I are genuinely interested in the Minister's opinion on the matter. For the rest, I am asked to tell you that Bajen is the best.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-533	Mr President, I would like to According to Swedish legislation, it is the employer who has to lead and distribute the work. The employer can also, in many contexts, make demands on how to behave and how to be dressed when doing your job. Sometimes it's for safety reasons, sometimes it's for other reasons. I believe that this may be the case. Thank you, Märta Lindström – The Bajen is the best!
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-535	That concludes today's Question Time. I thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-536	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Rikard Larsson is having a hard time. He has, as a social democrat, the whole of Flygsverige against him. He has eight out of ten referrals against him. He has a majority in the Swedish parliament against him. He even has his own municipal councillors around Sweden against him when it comes to air tax. I understand that this is difficult, Mr President. What I do not understand – Rikard Larsson is happy to develop it – is his attempt to mix the cards away and talk about cooperation between the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. My sincere question to Rikard Larsson is how he has discovered that there has been some difference in the Committee on Transport. I noted last term of office that the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats repeatedly came to the same conclusions and condemned the alliance government. It even went so far, Mr President, that the Social Democrats sat down with the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Transport and Communications and wrote law together on air traffic management. In what way does Rikard Larsson – frankly, and not with a few points of speech and something general – think that something has happened in the Transport Committee that is different from this? In this motion report we are dealing with a number of issues relating to aviation, including aviation strategy, drone strategy, regional airports and other aviation-related issues. The proposal from the Transport Committee is that Parliament sends two announcements to the government, one on an aviation strategy without air taxes, which could contribute to the competitiveness of aviation, one on a strategy for drones. What concerns the drones, my party colleague Erik Ottoson will immerse himself in later. Sweden is a sparsely populated and elongated country on the outskirts of Europe. Despite our situation and our harsh climate, we have become one of the richest countries in the world. Swedish industrial companies have been at the absolute forefront of technological innovation. The world has asked for what we had to offer. . Made in Sweden, has brushed for high quality. It is through trade with other countries that we have become one of the richest countries in the world. Our geographical location has not been to our advantage, but we have managed to overcome that. Good transport opportunities have always been and will always be vital for Sweden. We must continue to defend Sweden's leading position. Then we must also defend good transport opportunities. Air travel is becoming an increasingly central part. The current government of social democrats and environmentalists chooses time and again to put forward proposals that make transport within our country and out to other countries more expensive and more difficult. They've raised the gas tax. They've raised the diesel tax. They want to introduce a kilometre tax on heavy goods transport. Now they have also decided to introduce a flight tax. Taxing distances in a small trading country at the edge of Europe is a really bad policy, Mr President. Social Democrat Rikard Larsson believes that the air tax is being handled in the wrong report and that the debate is being conducted in the wrong committee. He'd be happy to think so. I think it is the wrong policy and the wrong government. In other words, opinions may differ on the same issue. A flight tax lacks support in the Swedish parliament. Nevertheless, a parliamentary weak government with social democrats and environmentalists intends to enforce this tax on aviation together with the Left Party in the autumn budget. Aviation tax does not contribute to less emissions. The airline tax will be able to put around 10,000 jobs at risk in our country. Eight out of ten consultation bodies advise against introducing the airline tax. Leading Social Democrats throughout our country also advise against doing so. Everyone else, except the Social Democrats and environmentalists in the government, understands the negative consequences of this. Mr President, I would like to It would have been interesting to hear the representatives of the Social Democrats, Rikard Larsson, comment on this. Is the government's own investigation wrong? It says that there will be no environmental benefits to talk about. Does he ignore that there will be no new jobs in Sweden and that old jobs will disappear? Is it the case that in practice all consultation bodies are wrong? Is it the case that Rikard Larsson's fellow party members around the country have not understood this? The construction of this new tax will effectively lead airlines to move their long-distance routes away from Arlanda and Sweden. Instead, Swedish passengers will be fed to other airports in our neighbourhood in northern Europe. This means that long flights will not start in Stockholm and Arlanda. On the contrary, long-haul flights will start in Helsinki, Oslo, Copenhagen or Frankfurt. It's bad environmental policy. What sabotages the environment most is when there are many landings and starts. But that is exactly what this treasure is designed to accomplish. It ensures that airlines do not start long flights in Sweden. Norwegian has already announced that they will cancel their intended connection between Stockholm and New York. Other airlines will not start their new long-haul connections, and long-haul flights will also gradually be withdrawn from Arlanda if this becomes a reality. The construction of the government's air tax also means that airlines cannot switch to green aviation fuels. Green aviation fuels are more expensive than traditional aviation fuels. The first thing the airlines will do if the small margins of the aviation industry have with a flight tax is to slow down the green conversion of flights. The airlines will not be able to afford to replace the old resource-intensive aircraft with new energy-friendly energy-smart aircraft either, with the disappearance of small margins that are now being removed. Good Flyg has already withdrawn its order for new aircraft. Other airlines will certainly do the same. This leads to worse environmental benefits than if you were to ignore the tax. The construction of this government's aviation tax will also remove the small margins that exist in aviation. This will speed up the flagging out of both aircraft and aircraft crews to countries with lower costs. This information has access to the entire Transport Committee. SAS has already started and wants to place flights from Spain into Sweden because they think it is too expensive costs in Sweden. If we eliminate the small margins that SAS has, what Mr Larsson spoke out for, which I believe the whole House agrees with, namely the problem of social dumping and race to the bottom in terms of wages and working conditions, will be speeded up. Mr President, I would like to Rikard Larsson said earlier that the government has been so good at developing a flight strategy. They were first in Sweden with this. Let me make this clear to those who listen. It was a majority of the Swedish parliament that in spring 2015 forced the government to develop an aviation strategy. It wasn't that the government thought you wanted to do that. The majority of Parliament wanted an aviation strategy aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of aviation. What came back, Mr President? A new treasure on the plane. The only thing the whole industry warned about, what must not happen, is what the government has delivered. I find it very difficult to understand the pride Rikard Larsson expressed in the speaker's chair. The whole of Flygsverige said that a flight tax is absolutely devastating, that the government can do what you want – nothing – but absolutely not introduce a flight tax. So what this government is delivering is a flight tax. It puts its feet completely away for Swedish flights. I wouldn't be proud of that. This is the reason why the Alliance wants the government to come back with an aviation strategy aimed at strengthening Swedish aviation's competitiveness. That's what it's all about. It is not about developing a flight strategy that does exactly the opposite to what Parliament wants. It's about developing a strategy that makes us strengthen Swedish flights, not put our legs away. This is the background to the fact that a majority of Parliament will ask the government to come back with a strategy that strengthens competitiveness. We cannot then have a flight tax, Mr President. If a farmer goes to the painter and asks for help to repaint the barn so that it does not decay, the answer from the painter cannot reasonably be that the barn should be burned down. The aviation industry came to politicians in 2014 and said that it was facing major challenges to face an increasingly globalised world. Competitiveness must be strengthened if the industry is to remain in Sweden. That was the background to the work undertaken by the Alliance Government. The answer from the Social Democrats is to burn down the barn. That's exactly what it's all about. The only thing the airline business said can't happen is what you deliver. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates don't like the plane tax. The Alliance doesn't like the plane tax. A majority of Sweden's parliament dislikes the airline tax. In the report we are dealing with today, there is a proposal to send an announcement to the government to develop a flight strategy aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of aviation. We need to address the environmental issue, including aviation. Against this background, a majority of the Parliament has sent an announcement to the government to come back to the issue of the green conversion of aviation fuel, that is, biofuels. There's a lot to do. It concerns a large number of jobs in the country. The Swedish aviation industry is a world leader in a number of areas, including light components and ensuring that future aircraft are more resource-efficient. That know-how is in our country. It is a question of Swedish industrial jobs. That's where we're gonna be strong, and that's where we're gonna drive the development. It is possible to increase travel by air while taking responsibility for the environment. The answer to future environmental and climate challenges can never be that a trade-dependent country like Sweden makes travel to and trade with other countries difficult. Mr President, I would like to Regional airports are also included in the report. There is a reservation from the alliance parties. We want the government to come back with a plan to ensure that the entire national airport infrastructure can remain. The 34 non-governmental airports should be able to live on. Then there must be a strategy for this. We want the government to come back with that. If we want to protect regional airports, this issue is included in reservation 2. If there is a majority in favour of reservation 2, we can force the government to come back to this issue. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Transport under paragraph 1 and 10 and the alliance reservation 2 under paragraph 2.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-559	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin with the beginning of Edward Riedl's speech. I have to say that I was confused at a probably lower level. I have been on the Transport Committee this parliamentary term. I have seen the change in how, among other things, the Moderates have acted, how they have approached the Swedish Democrats and in this matter have openly appealed for the support of the Swedish Democrats. What confuses me is that you have said that this is your new strategy. Edward Riedl says the Moderates are not negotiating with the Swedish Democrats. But that's what you were supposed to do, and then you said it was unclear. I agree that it became unclear. But in the Committee on Transport and Tourism it was clear. What surprises me is that this is happening with the proposals of the Center Party and Liberals. It surprises me a little. The Moderates have said that you should do this, and just stand up for the strategy you have chosen – whatever it is. Edward Riedl talks about decisions, announcements and efficiency. Now, with the help of an announcement, which is not about air tax, you want to reverse a strategy that is not about air tax. The aviation tax is mentioned in the strategy, but it also mentions the export strategy and the new industrialisation strategy. It mentions a lot of things that will work in a rallel with the strategy. But for the important areas addressed in the aviation strategy, you are saying stop and evidence, that the work should not continue and that a new strategy should be developed. That's what I'm criticising.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-563	Mr President, I would like to Rikard Larsson is confused, and it is noticeable. Rikard Larsson's problem is that he has everyone against him. He not only has a majority of the Riksdag against him, not only his leading party colleagues far out in the country against him, but he has all Flygsverige against him and almost all the referrals. That's Rikard Larsson's problem. Rikard Larsson would rather talk about completely different things. I can understand that. I would have done the same if I were Rikard Larsson. Let's go to what we're here to talk about. I did not interpret, Mr President, that there were some specific explanations from Rikard Larsson as to what would have changed or what the difference was with when S and SD settled matters in the Transport Committee during the last parliamentary term. Then they even sat down and wrote the law together. If there is any substance from Rikard Larsson, I will be happy to answer this. Otherwise, it'll have to be the way it is. This Parliament sent an announcement to the Government in spring 2015. The Parliament said that the government is now being asked to come back with a strategy to strengthen the competitiveness of aviation. I hope those of you who listen understand what I'm saying. It was about a strategy to ensure that Swedish aviation will be able to cope with foreign competition. They warned of one thing and said, "We don't want a flight tax." It would be devastating for Swedish jobs, for Swedish aviation industry and for aviation in general. That's what they warned about. This government has accomplished one thing, and it is a flight tax. Those are the facts, Rikard Larsson. Now comes a new round of this. A majority of the Parliament will say to the government: we want you to come back with a flight strategy to strengthen the competitiveness of aviation and not to knock its legs away. Mr President, I would like to I hope I am clear even though Rikard Larsson was confused.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-570	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a very good thing that we in this House are debating what the dossiers are about. The airline tax will come to this House to the extent that the government makes proposals. Then Edward Riedl gets the chance of the world. Even if he is not on the Tax Committee, he can then take the floor and go up and debate air tax. That question comes to this House in the order in which the questions always come. What this case is about is not air tax. This case concerns the fact that the government has now presented a flight strategy in which, in response to various demands for exercise, we refer to a flight strategy in which we approach and set up an investigation to review support for regional airports. Does Edward Riedl think it's bad? We set up a Arlanda Council to develop Arlanda. Does Edward Riedl think it's bad? We point to the measures needed to reduce the environmental and climate impact of aviation. Does Edward Riedl think it's bad? We are talking about the high level of aviation safety and a review of the regulatory framework for drones. Does Edward Riedl think it's bad? We are talking about fair and healthy conditions of competition. Does Edward Riedl think it's bad? We are talking about research, an innovative aviation industry and increased exports of Swedish goods and services. It is these seven focus areas that the aviation strategy is all about. These are the seven focus areas when you want to say to the government: Stop and prove it! Don't work on this! We're going to rewrite the strategy so it looks a little different then. It is not a matter of airline tax, it is a question of stopping this work. Why does Edward Riedl want to stop the work?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-574	Mr President, I would like to I will try to use very simple language. If you first propose that you burn down the barn and then want to talk about how to decorate it, it will be a little wrong order, Mr President. That's what I'm trying to say. Much of what Rikard Larsson talks about are good things. But that is completely insignificant, because we will not have any Swedish airlines left if you introduce the airline tax. That will speed up the phasing-out, and that was my point. Let's talk interior decoration of the barn, but don't burn it down until we've started this work! That, Mr President, is my appeal to Rikard Larsson. I find it interesting when a Member says: let us talk about the report before us! And then he chooses to do the opposite. He talks about anything other than the report before us and tries to trix, play away the cards and talk about completely different things. Let us talk about the report, because I want to do the same. The government and you therefore have almost all the referrals against you, Rikard Larsson. You have a majority of the Riksdag against you. You even have your leading party colleagues around Sweden against you. You've got all of Flygsverige against you. That's the problem. The airline tax is absolutely devastating. A majority of the Riksdag says to the government today: Return with a new aviation strategy, or work it into the existing one, to strengthen Swedish competitiveness! Don't throw away your legs for Swedish flights! That's what it's all about.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-579	Mr President, I would like to I wonder if Edward Riedl has read the opinion poll that Svenskt Flyg has had done about what people think about air tax. I'll give you an opportunity to answer that. I have read this poll, and I do not think one can assume that Svenskt Flyg has angled the questions in such a way that they get the majority of those who answer to like the airline tax. According to the opinion poll, 57 per cent of all Swedes are totally or fairly in favour of the introduction of a flight tax. I have read other polls showing that 75 percent of all Swedes think it is quite reasonable to have a tax. We can compare with the terms of a motorist. If you had as low a tax on petrol as you have on flights today, the petrol would cost $4 at the pump. If we are to meet climate targets, all sectors must help to reduce oil use. Fortunately, the majority of the Swedish people think so too. You can read any referral you want. I've read what KTH thinks. I've read what Chalmers thinks. They are in favour of the Government's proposal and say that it is reasonable to have economic instruments that make us less dependent on oil and that bring us closer to the climate target. Again: Has Edward Riedl read the opinion poll from Svenskt Flyg?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-583	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I read it. If I'm not wrong, but I can have that in this, so I'll leave it unsaid, I'd like to remember that it was the Nature Conservation Association that had ordered the investigation. But maybe Karin Sve nsson Smith has better control of me. At least I've read the results of the same. That is exactly right, what Karin Svensson Smith says. What does not emerge is that one is likely to assume that the air tax will lead to a better environment, that is to say, that one gets some kind of environmental benefit from it. That's the problem. That is also why the consultation bodies, that is to say the experts around the country that we have asked, come to the same conclusion as the government's own investigation: there are basically no environmental benefits. And why not? Because they will move by car instead of by plane. Then there will be no environmental benefits to talk about. What also happens with this construction, however, is that you no longer get any direct routes from Arlanda. If you are to fly to New York, you will then have to make a stopover in Copenhagen or Oslo. If you are flying to Asia, you are likely to have a stopover in Helsinki. Then there will even be negative environmental effects of the air tax. If you ask people the same question and tell them what the airline tax actually leads to, I think you will get another answer. Karin Svensson Smith is welcome to comment on this, if she wishes.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-588	Mr President, I would like to It is Swedish Flyg who has ordered the investigation, and I guess again that they have not angled the questions to incite people and get them to answer in a different way. 57% respond like this. They make a balanced assessment. People aren't stupid. They realize that there is nothing that has no consequences, but they are concerned about climate change. So it is 57% who say that they are quite or totally in favour of the air tax. And I've seen even higher numbers. Therefore, Edward Riedl's claim that everyone is against the airline tax is not true. People are in favour of climate action even if you realize that it has consequences for yourself. It's about who's your client. We representatives in the Swedish Parliament represent someone. If I can choose for myself, I represent unborn generations. It's a little ungrateful, because they can't vote. But they're the ones who live with the decisions we make here. A flight strategy is about how we find a way where aviation as part of it all leads to a sustainable transport system. I consider that to be our mission here, and I regret that the Alliance is not with us in the cooperation government on this mission.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-591	Mr President, I would like to I sincerely believe that if this led to positive environmental effects, the opinion poll referred to by Karin Svensson Smith would be in agreement. People are prepared to take costs if they improve the environment. It's nothing weird. But if you deliver a proposal that does not lead to environmental benefits but, on the contrary, is likely to lead to environmental losses, I think that people will be less favourable to a tax. This tax has no positive effects other than that it knocks out Swedish jobs, ensures that Arlanda will lose its lead position and creates stopovers in other parts of Europe, which we know is a great burden on the environment. The government's own investigation states that v i gets a transfer to car traffic, which means that there are no environmental benefits. So there are only bad things left with the treasure, and no good. If you ask people this question, I think they will think a little differently about the tax. But I could be wrong. It may be that Karin Svensson Smith and the Green Party are on the right track, but I think that people in general think it is good that we take responsibility for environmental issues. I do not think they think it is good that we are doing bad policies in this House that do not lead to environmental improvements, but only to environmental degradation. It is a policy that knocks out Swedish jobs and creates problems for Swedish industry to survive. I don't think people are for that.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-595	Mr President, I would like to So we are once again here to discuss flights. When I look a little closer at my notes from our last aviation debate, I note that they are just as good today. So I can only remind you a little of what was said then. We have made announcements, one after the other, and that is now up to date again, unfortunately. We had one on regional airports where I wanted to point out with great emphasis that it is indeed the responsibility of the government to do what it can when the EU slows down the development of our regional airports. What has been done there I do not know, and there is much silence about it. Let us turn to what we are not allowed to talk about today, i.e. the airline tax. Rikard Larsson carefully reminded us, like we didn't know about it, that it will come up here again. In 2014, after the elections, I heard about the Green Party's plans for all taxes to be imposed on the road team. The airline tax was one of them. We also had contacts with the industry, and since then we have tried to understand whether a flight tax is justified and, if so, how. We find it as stupid today as we did then. We are talking about regional airports and, at the same time, we want to impose a flight tax which is a direct threat to the existence of airports. Those who have not yet understood it will regrettably notice whether such a tax should be introduced. Rikard Larsson said that it is more fun than in a long time to discuss this. I don't think he really looked that happy. It was most of all a bit of a mess, because the Social Democrats I know--it's actually several--are wondering exactly what you're doing. There is no government impact statement on this. In fact, the opposition has been comfortable in finding out what the consequences are. The consultation bodies have done so, and the vast majority say no, thank you. Rikard Larsson also mentioned that accessibility is important. Of course it is, but then airports must remain. Otherwise, accessibility may be out of the question. Cooperation or not with us is often discussed. It is a dear subject for some, for the Social Democrats at the moment. The advantage of not having any coalitions, which we have not had and still have not, is that one can actually focus on the issues at stake. Let's do that. For example, we make it absolutely clear that we do not want any privatisation of air traffic services, because it was not good either. We don't care who's negotiating or talking to who. Mr President, I would like to Before I lose myself in all this that Rikard Larsson thought was so much fun, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 3 and otherwise of the committee's proposal in the report. The chairman of the committee made a very large number of his usual favourite subject, i.e. the climate. I don't know how many times she mentioned that word. If she had a really serious interest in the climate, she definitely wouldn't have proposed a flight tax. The truth is that it gives nothing to protect the environment, but vice versa. Edward Riedl referred to the consequences of airline changes, so I do not need to do the same. An announcement is now on the table again. We are asking for a concrete approach to aviation, because we believe that this has not been done. Then you could think about what these announcements are really worth. It is not many days since I saw the Minister of Finance standing on TV telling us that we are going to have a flight tax from January 2018. When this comes to a decision in this House when the aviation strategy is to be discussed, do you think that the majority of Parliament will say no – will the Social Democrats ignore it? That's a pretty interesting thought. As far as I know, our Constitution has not changed much lately. In any case, it would probably still be true that Parliament is the highest government and the people's main body in decision-making. As I said, I would like to endorse reservation 3.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-608	Madam President, I would like Sweden is the EU's third largest surface country and the country with the longest distance between the senders. Workable infrastructure and good communications are needed to keep the country together and to enable us to see developments in all parts of the country. Air travel plays an important role. We see that it will also play an important role in the future. It requires good market conditions but also efforts for the future, so that we can have sustainable travel with aviation as well. There are many different values that interact. From a long-term perspective, we can see that we will have the opportunity to switch fuel systems in order to achieve environmentally sustainable aviation fuels as well. The flight is and will be superior for the foreseeable future when it comes to travelling long distances under pressure of time. Aviation is a prerequisite for a functioning labour market and a competitive business sector, in Sweden but also towards the outside world. When we meet representatives of industrial entrepreneurs and small businesses, people who do business nationally and globally, the very importance of functioning infrastructure, communication and working aircraft always comes high on the agenda. This applies in Värmland, in Norrland and in southern Sweden. Operating flights also contribute to new activities and the development of, among other things, the tourism industry. If the potential of domestic and regional aviation were to deteriorate, the tourism industry's ability to attract international tourism would stop. Tourism has increased in Sweden in recent years. There is higher turnover and more visits from abroad. It is also about the image of our country. With regard to the local business environment, there are many things that are linked to what expectations there are, what perceptions look like and what the practical way of getting to and from different places looks like. These experiences can affect many issues, not least planned investments for the future. When there are signals that the conditions and conditions for air traffic will deteriorate, there is a risk that important and necessary investments will not be made. It may even be the case that executive management in California think it will be too complicated to travel to that or that place – somewhere around Sweden's 290 municipalities – and therefore simply, at a meeting one afternoon, decide to close down a business with several hundred important industrial jobs. This is interplaying. That is why the government's responsibility is enormous. It is about the rules of play that we create, in the short and long term, to communicate what conditions we should have for the Swedish work to develop the labour market and business climate but also sustainability. The regional airports connect Sweden. It creates jobs and increases opportunities. I would like to call for the approval of reservation 2 and highlight how important it is for the government to work systematically to strengthen the conditions for Swedish aviation, that the government ensures that the infrastructure we have and works to make the new investments necessary to strengthen the entire transport system. With the measure presented by the government the other day, Sweden risks being split even deeper. It is a measure that hits large parts of Sweden's countryside directly. The government often talks about strategies. But I often lack the holistic approach, where the different strategies have to work together. During Question Time earlier, the Minister for Rural Development had to answer various questions related to rural development. How has that perspective been taken into account when the government is now putting forward proposals for a flight tax? The proposal on air tax will have an extremely marginal effect on emissions. And it will have socio-economic consequences in other areas. The study on air transport estimates the impact at 0.2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. This can be compared to the engine technology that a company in Trollhättan, GKN, is now developing. It is now being tested and would mean a reduction in fuel consumption and emissions from an aircraft engine of between 15% and 20%. If such technologies are exported globally and disseminated in the same way as today's technology, it would reduce emissions of about 120 million tonnes. It is therefore not primarily aviation taxes but innovation and new technologies that are the solution for the climate. It's about seeing the bigger picture. In this context, I can point out the importance of this company working with both military and civil aviation activities. And in another department they are working to follow up the issue of engine maintenance in the upcoming JAS aircraft. This link is also important for the future of aviation in Sweden. You should be able to have as much expertise as possible in the companies that are active in this area in Sweden, so that we can continue to develop innovations and find both environmentally smart and cost-effective solutions. In this way, aviation will have the conditions to become sustainable and to be able to function in Sweden in the long term. The government has a responsibility for what is now at risk. It is important to follow this up to see what the combined picture will be in a few years' time. This applies to how routes and travel to and from different destinations in the country will look like. I am thinking of Hagfors, Gällivare, Borlänge, Halmstad, the High Coast, Jönköping – the list of airports at risk of being affected by this proposal can be made long. Accessibility in Sweden will now become worse. Regional policy risks important jobs and activities. In one of the opinions of the various consultation bodies, Arvidsjaur municipality points out that the air tax will amount to 4 million in increased costs for an activity that the municipality already assumes a large responsibility for with a deficit coverage of 6 – 8 million per year. The testing activities of vehicles in Arvidsjaur, among others, may be affected. The risk is that it will be moved to Finland due to the consequences of the flight tax. These socio-economic consequences affect the whole of Sweden. I think it is important to take such referrals from Arvidsjaur's municipality very seriously. The risk is that municipalities in the interior of Norrland that do not have other collective or sustainable alternatives can see dramatic changes due to the conditions of aviation. To be honest, I think it would have been good if the rural minister had also taken these perspectives into account in the rural strategy. Then the Center Party realizes the importance of working with the fuel side. Very positive things are being done. It is tested, developed and projected in different ways. We need to be able to resolve this jointly in order to maintain mobility and the development of aviation while at the same time introducing renewable fuels. As we have heard before, the forest is an extremely important resource. The aircraft engines are already adapted to run half by biofuels. You're talking about 20 terawatt hours from the woods that aren't fully used today. There are ongoing projects, including Renfuel and Nordic paper, at home in Bäckhammar in Värmland to take advantage of the lignin. A gradual development project can lead to solutions for aviation as well. Karlstad Airport started work in the summer of 2014 to provide biofuels for aviation as the first airport in the world. It is an important platform to continue working from the outside. They also have a collaboration with Norway where they test and work to develop biofuels for flights and traffic between Oslo and Bergen. There is potential for an enormous effect. There are things going on, and more needs to be done in order for this to have a full impact. It is also a local effect where more jobs can be created linked to both research and innovation while at the same time making use of the raw materials available in the country. Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for this debate.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-636	Madam President, I would like I agree with a lot of what Daniel Bäckström says. I agree with the challenges he points out and with what is necessary to do with biofuels, for example. What I think is a bit problematic in this discussion is that one somehow pretends that these challenges did not exist before we started talking about airline tax. We have stood in this House many times talking about the concerns of regional airports. Daniel Bäckström mentions Hagfors and Halmstad. Does Daniel Bäckström think that the situation has been calm for these airports before the discussions on air tax have taken place? I don't think Daniel Bäckström thinks so. Regardless of what we do with the air tax, we need to do a job to ensure that state aid to regional airports can continue to be paid out. We know that no matter what the consequences of a flight tax are, these airports will not survive. Regional airports in the country are not economically prosperous and are not in a good position, and it is not the case that if they simply avoid air taxes, life will be calm. No, there are many airports with deficits, which have problems and which have had problems for many years. Now, in the aviation strategy, the government is saying that we need a review so that we have long-term sustainable conditions for these airports. There is a need to review the role of the state as a supporter. Doesn't Daniel Bäckström think that's good?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-642	Madam President, I would like If you do not want to see the whole picture, you can steer the issue of air taxation into another committee area. I fully understand the situation that has been. I have also worked on these issues regionally in close cooperation with colleagues at the municipal level. The importance of functioning communications applies and has also applied in the past. Clearly, there is much to look back on, including the efforts that have been made to ensure that traffic can still be maintained. We have also seen how important it is for Hagfors, among others, who has a world-leading industry. The ability to get there quickly and efficiently is so important today. I am thinking in particular of how, on the one hand, one can talk warmly about a flight strategy while at the same time seeking to impose penalties on an activity, in principle without any environmental impact. There will be displacement effects. It directly threatens the conditions for business, and it will increase fossil emissions when you need to get to other airports to move on to the destinations that you have. I think it is very important that we have a dialogue and that we work to find good solutions. But the risk is that you will benefit areas where it already works, and then those who are completely dependent on the flight will be affected to get, for example, between Norrland's inland and Stockholm.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-647	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important to see the bigger picture and that aviation should be seen as part of the overall picture. Air travel is part of our transport sector. Does Daniel Bäckström think it is reasonable that it is aviation that should not pay for its climate impact? Does Daniel Bäckström think it is reasonable that we move forward with other areas where you should pay for your climate impact, but that the flight should be exempted from this? Is it to see the bigger picture? SAS, Norwegian and BRA have today published an article on their responsibility. I think it is good that we have an industry that is involved in taking responsibility. Now this is all about domestic traffic, but we should have an opposition in Parliament that takes responsibility. You don't even take as much responsibility as the aerospace industry. The aviation industry is a far more progressive force in environmental matters than the Center Party and the other bourgeois parties are. The Center is also talking about green tax exchange. Isn't it good in this area? Is aviation the area that should be excluded from taking responsibility for the climate? You shouldn't tax the fuel. Certainly there is a trading system of emission allowances. We can look at SAS' own estimates of the cost of emission allowances in relation to the cost of real climate compensation. Why is it so important for Daniel Bäckström and the Center Party that aviation should be excluded from the whole? Why shouldn't aviation pay for its climate impact?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-651	Madam President, I would like Rikard Larsson raises this question to the level where it belongs. It is a question of finding a system that applies to the whole of Europe. When you take a country in Scandinavia it is an extremely clear effect that you instead move travel from Arlanda to Helsinki or from Malmö to Copenhagen. That is not where we should end up; that is not the way to solve the problem. This is a global problem, and the environmental impact of the Government's proposal is practically non-existent. There are other measures that would have a much greater impact. I stressed, among other things, the technological development of aircraft engines. What the Center Party wants to see is that we get international solutions with a holistic system, in which we settle with the other countries so that we get the same conditions for all countries in our area. We can see examples of how countries in Europe that have previously introduced air tax have backed up and now would rather see something else. I think this is a proof of how effective that measure is in a global perspective. The Center Party is keen to find an international system where we deal with this issue, but it must not be a separate solution where we create less competitive conditions and less favourable conditions for Sweden to develop in the future. That is what the government is doing today. When it comes to aviation fuels, I have also read the report from the Swedish Aviation Association, where you do a SWOT analysis and describe strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. There are many strengths and opportunities, but what is mentioned as a threat is that air taxes and other national taxes risk impoverishing airlines' ability to invest in environmental technologies. That's the space you need. I hope that the government will also realise this in due course.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-655	Madam President, I would like The Center tend to argue that you are against tax at a distance, and so I have a question for Daniel Bäckström: Do you want to remove fairway charges and rail charges? There are also charges at a distance. One has to be a bit consistent: why should the railways and shipping pay taxes from a distance but not from the aircraft? From the cooperation government, we are trying to find a level playing field between the modes of transport, and then it is quite reasonable that there should be no tax evasion, which can be avoided. But I would like to know how the Center sees this. Then I find it sympathetic when we talk about industry and local activities in rural areas. I have been to meetings with Visita where it has been said that cycling tourism booms, that more people go by train to the mountains than ever before and that people in densely populated parts of South and Central Europe come to us to enjoy our comparatively healthy and clean nature and be able to have active mobility. In fact, I believe that, if the environment and climate were superior, this industry could be greatly strengthened. But we cannot do it in a credible way while saying that it should be almost free to fly to Thailand. You have to think a little bit: Sustainable tourism requires that you have a well-thought-out offer. But my question to Daniel Bäckström is: Does the Center think that you should remove track charges and fairway fees?
i-VgoPUYqqmq71Uo6woavA9R	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Karin Svensson Smith! If we start with the development of tourism, I can go to Dalarna, where, in cooperation with Norwegian friends, you work hard to get to an airport establishment in the Sälen area because you see that it enables development. It also works with other issues in the sign of sustainability and sees how this can mean both increased transport opportunities and increased visiting and entrepreneurship. But we also want the fuel in the air to be changed. This should not be a contradiction. We must be able to travel by air to and from our tourist destinations, and we must do so with environmentally friendly fuels. With the forest as a starting point, it will be a good circular thinking, where we have the raw material in our areas and then can expand entrepreneurship, innovation and entrepreneurship so that we can produce fuels also for our flight. When it comes to fairway and rail charges, I would ask you to come back to the issue on the basis of further reflections. I myself am concerned about the fairway charge issue in different ways at home.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-663	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. No one would be happier than us if we could find long-term sustainable biofuels for aviation. But according to New Technology of February 22, this year, nowhere in the world has any aviation fuel yet been found on lignin approved for flight. It can't handle the low temperatures at high altitudes. I wonder, then, if the Center agrees with the precautionary principle, because I think it is a good point to know that it works before you give yourself up in an aircraft with a fuel. You can take a chance, but I don't think I'd dare. I also believe that we should take into account the precautionary principle with regard to all modes of transport. We know that bio fuels are on the way – that it is perfectly possible to have motorism, including trucks, with renewable fuels. But aviation is our problem sector, and that is one of the reasons why the government is behind a green tax shift – because that is exactly what it is. After all, the proposal on air travel tax is complemented by lower charges for those who employ a new person. I do not understand how the Centre Party, which claims to be a green party, can be opposed to reducing taxes on labour and raising taxes on emissions.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-667	Madam President, I would like It is clear that all development projects come to a limit at different times where you can draw conclusions and bring the results of research into the market and also into operation. When it comes to aviation, safety and long-term safety are extremely important. I have full confidence in the ongoing development work, and I also hope that the results that will emerge over time will be useful. But it is also about best supporting the innovative forces and ensuring that the projects get started in practice. Experience from other areas with projects relating to the development of renewable fuels shows that there is a regional imbalance without its like in Sweden. Some have received government money to get started while others have not received it. We need a diversity – many that activate – and above all we need to support companies and industries. And this is done, among other things in Värmland. Even in Trollhättan and elsewhere, we have high technology development and focus on these issues. But the risk of a flight tax, which makes the players back from Sweden, is that we have a regional effect where the labour market and investment will also be affected. This proposal will then have a completely different effect than a tax shift. Then there will soon be no tax revenue in these areas to take advantage of. This is what I'm worried about. It is about Sweden's future, and the government has a huge responsibility for the existence of a functioning infrastructure for the industries in Hagfors and for the interior of Norrland. We all have to sign that.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-671	Madam President, I would like We are the last generation to do anything about the climate issue. It is important to keep working on the climate issue. There's a lot going on around the world. In Turkey, for example, land prices are determined when you buy houses from solar radiation, because so many now want solar cells on their houses. Saudi Arabia has started investing in PV installations, and the transition continues even where it may not be expected. At the same time, there is a warming of the seas, which, if it continues, may result in them becoming a source of carbon dioxide instead of a carbon sink, as they are now. We also see other reinforcement mechanisms that are beginning to be strengthened even more. It's a dangerous situation. Unfortunately, we are now seeing an increase in travel in Sweden, both by car and by air. This is very unfortunate, and I think we need to create a "we" feeling: we are changing together – the Swedish people together with all parties in the Riksdag. We would need more government information campaigns on what everyone can do and what we can do together in this very tough situation. However, it is still a situation where there is a hope that we will be able to do this if we just change in time. The Government's aviation strategy has in parts a good focus on sustainability, as the Left Party sees it. However, we feel that it lacks a clear definition of how the climate impact of the aviation sector should be reduced over time. We would like to see a strategy for reducing aviation and for us to replace it with other modes of transport where possible. The international agreements, such as the ICAO agreement, are not enough to prevent the increasing emissions from air travel, and above all it takes too long to get the regulations in place. Therefore, Sweden increasingly needs to take national initiatives such as aviation tax in order to reduce the climate impact of aviation. There are few questions I have received so many e-mails about from private individuals as the airline tax. Here is one of all the emails that I have received, where you pray and pray that we should redirect to a climate policy worthy of the name when it comes to aviation: I think mostly of my two little ones, one and three years. They do not need any more toys or actually that long vacation to Australia that we have planned. They need to keep this planet in habitable condition. Please, you people who have the power, help us! This is a situation where citizens are asking us to make it more expensive to travel with the wrong means of transport. I also believe that with our Swedish aviation business we cannot compete with low prices. There are so many others who are pushing conditions and quality so much more that we will never be able to compete with it. However, we can compete with ethics and eco-labelling. We can have good working conditions and work even better with the environment in aviation than we do today. Already, the aviation industry has made as much more efficient as possible to save fuel. There is not much more you can do in terms of energy efficiency. I'm sure you can take some steps forward, but it's hard. However, you can work with biofuels. There is now high competition for biofuels, and that will not be enough for everything. And the flight needs a lot of fuel. But we in Sweden could go ahead with social requirements and eco-labelling and thus get people who are aware that our planet must survive but want to travel – they may travel rarely but are prepared to pay a little more for the flight in order to get a good conscience – to choose the Swedish flight. I think it's better than competing with semi-low prices – or very low prices, but now, unfortunately, other airlines have prices that are even lower. Aviation tax is also an important and necessary signal to citizens about the means of transport we want to encourage. There is now a need for clear signals from us here in Parliament that we actually care about our planet and that we strategically think about the whole transport sector and try to promote the good means of transport and instead strengthen rail traffic to the places in Norrland that depend on aviation.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-681	Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals support all the proposals we are taking part in. For the gain of time, I only ask for reservation 5. We have heard a lot in the debate today on the national aviation strategy. That is also the background to some of the points of discussion that come up in the debate. What does aviation mean for Sweden's growth, business, tourism, labour market and transport systems and for the ability to hold Sweden together? What does aviation mean for Sweden's role in global society? That means a lot, we mean in the Liberals. We also describe parts of our approach in our exercise, which also forms the basis of our reservation, along with the alliance demands. However, aviation is not always the obvious choice everywhere. But for some, it's still the only option. Train and vehicle traffic in general is sometimes a better option. But sometimes other alternatives are completely unrealistic, as far as aviation is concerned. Sure, you can go on a boat to America, but it takes a long time. You can travel by train to Southeast Asia, but it also takes quite a long time. Air transport connects Sweden with the world. The development of aviation is therefore important. Is the flight completely unproblematic? No, no mode of transport is unproblematic in terms of environmental and climate issues. Everyone must in some way contribute to solutions for the transport system to be more climate-smart, including aviation. There is no doubt about that. But the question is how. Government parties want to create obstacles to aviation. It should be less accessible, and the goal is to make it more expensive without achieving the environmental benefits. The method is barriers and barriers – a flight tax – that will not solve anything. We in the Liberals want to focus on solutions and see how aviation can become more environmentally and climate smart and bear its responsibilities for real. We believe in technology development, in more modern but low-cost aircraft. On this point, the committee has been informed by one of the market players. We believe in the work on approach corridors. The committee also has good knowledge of this. We believe in making flight routes more efficient. We believe in biofuels. We believe in the international instruments that may exist in the form of levies and taxes. We believe that land transport should also be included in the system. There is my answer to Emma Wallrup: much more can be done in these areas. We haven't seen all the solutions yet. For example, land transport, which few have touched on here today, is also a question of how it burdens aviation. How do we get to and from airports? There's a reservation in the Liberals. We believe that it is important to see the whole in relation to aviation. Much more can be done. In Sweden, Arlanda is the airport that has the most extensive land transport. There's more to do there. We also have many other airports facing the same challenge. So much more can be done. Regional airports play a very important role, and many have been involved in this debate. They may be the only opportunity to connect the region with the rest of Sweden and the world. They also contribute to regional competitiveness. We believe that the smaller airports, which are often part-financed by the municipalities, are important for the country's economy. In this context, we would also like to point out that the audits carried out by the European Commission create great uncertainty about the economy for the future. There we and the Alliance believe that the government and the government parties do not assume their full responsibilities. Madam President, I would like Taking responsibility for the environment and climate also applies to aviation, but the solution is not a national aviation tax. It only aims at reducing, preventing and making things more difficult, and it has consequences. We want to see more opportunities for all regions in Sweden, for growth, entrepreneurship and regional development as well as for the labour market to grow. As I mentioned at the outset, it is not quite easy to get to either the USA or South-East Asia in other ways. But Sweden is also an elongated country. Let me take an example which shows that when we travel, we Members too can experience how far Sweden is. Going from Stockholm to Kiruna is almost as far as from Stockholm to Brussels or from Stockholm to Moscow. It would take 14 hours to drive by car, and it would take 11 hours to take the train. But it takes one hour and 30 minutes to fly. If you travel for your pleasure as a tourist and have plenty of time it may work, but for a lot of people it doesn't work. If I were to drive from Malmö to Kiruna, it would take 21 hours. This shows that Sweden is an elongated country where there are completely different conditions. For competition, for regional growth, for the labour market, for work commutes, for business and for the tourism industry, it is important that we see the different conditions. There, aviation has its obvious role to play. But we can do much else to make sure that the flight takes on its responsibilities. We welcome that. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about drones. It is good that we are now being announced a strategy. It creates new opportunities for innovation and development in a number of industries. We see this as very positive.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-700	Madam President, I would like Nina Lundström mentions that there is certainly more that can be done to make aviation more environmentally efficient. That's what I said. It is positive if we work with it, and we in Sweden should go ahead with it and even profile ourselves in our Swedish airline. However, a great deal of energy efficiency has already been achieved in aviation, so it is not easy to move forward precisely when it comes to energy efficiency. Nina Lundström wants to work with land transport. I have noticed that Nina Lundström lifts OPS solutions very much. I just want to ask her how she sees the Arlanda runway, which is just a OPS solution. It has proved so expensive that people actually choose to take taxis in many cases. This is because it has become so expensive agreements. OPS solutions have proven to be very expensive in England as well. The Swedish National Audit Office there has pointed out that it is so expensive that you cannot see it as socially profitable. Then my question to Nina Lundström is how she views the efficiency of land transport precisely in relation to Arlandabanan.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-703	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the question that Emma Wallrup began with. That's the discussion about the airplanes. It was quite recently an actor who came to committee and told us what it means if you cannot finance the new plan. It is actually much more effective to fly with new planes. I believe that the industry still makes it very clear that there is more to do when it comes to technology development, material choices, biofuels and much more. I mean that there is a different picture from that described by Emma Wallrup. I think it is important to follow these developments. There, too, the actors take responsibility, but they must be able to finance their activities. This is what makes it so interesting. If taxes are introduced that remove the possibility of making important investments, they will be counterproductive, and I think that we must all deal with this. Then there are ground transport and OPS solutions. Emma Wallrup mentions the Arlanda runway. Let us remember that it would not have been possible if external funding had not been found. So it served its purpose in its day. But of course you should learn from all the agreements that exist and the conditions that exist. I think that should be done in this case as well. This does not solve the issue from the northeast sector in Stockholm County, which is about how to move to Arlanda. So there is much more to be done. I still think it's good to remember that the airport works very intensively with the question. There are also demands for the taxis that are there and on buses etc. It is clear that we should learn from this, but it does not avoid the possibility of actively reviewing other airports and weighing land transport into total emissions.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-708	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is true that the new plans are more energy efficient. However, those in the aviation sector with whom I have spoken have said that energy efficiency has been sought for a very long time. So there are not many ways left to work with, after all. But I hope that Nina Lundström is a little more right than I am and that we will energy efficiency much more. We'll see about that. In the case of OPS solutions, it is in their nature that there will be long contracts to get a company involved in this. The airport runway has a 45-year contract. Members of Parliament do not even get an insight into what it costs to solve it, which I think is very undemocratic. It's going to be more expensive interest rates. In addition, the company will make a profit. It's very hard to come up with better deals. Examples in England, which have worked very hard with OPS, have shown this. This also applies to Norway and other countries that have worked with OPS solutions. I think this is wasting tax money, according to the cases we have around the world. It's in the nature of things that it's going to be like this. If you want to have the arrangement with more expensive interest rates, profit and long contracts, it becomes such a problem. I think it will be difficult to solve it in other ways. Maybe you can adjust it in the margin. But even Anders Borg pointed out that OPS solutions were much more expensive. He expected a 40 - percent increase if one were to go that way. In fact, I do not understand why those who are afraid of tax money at all want to invest in such a deal.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-712	Madam President, I would like New cars are often considered better than old cars. That is what it looks like in a great many areas. With technology development and with thoughts about sustainability, all those involved in these processes make sure that the new that comes is often better than the other. That's why I'm getting a little perplexed. Why wouldn't that be true in aviation? We also got a presentation of what it means if you can't afford to invest in new aircraft, which are better, more efficient, lighter and more efficient. I think it is important that aviation takes responsibility. I welcome the fact that the players are out in the debate and say that these issues will be reviewed. I think that's important. I will return to the question of OPS solutions. It's not a kind of solution, it's a kind of agreement. You can see that when you look at them. I share the view that a 45-year agreement, even in an international context, is a very long agreement. I believe that lessons should be learned from this. You're welcome to have shorter deals. But the other conditions are contractual issues. It is not the OPS model that is the problem, but what is agreed upon. There are many of us who are out in the debate who note that the resources allocated, even with the new framework following the treatment of the infrastructure bill, will not be enough for everything. I think it is good if we also find other forms of funding, so that we can find more infrastructure. Then it is a matter of being careful about what is agreed. It is not the models that are wrong, but the content you fill them with. More infrastructure with spread funding is a good solution. New technologies, biofuels and much more will make aviation take on more of its responsibilities.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-717	Mr President, I would like to I think Nina Lundström says a lot that is wise. I fully share the views on technological developments and developments on the fuel side. That is what must be the driving forces for us to actually get an environmentally friendly flight. On the other hand, there is something I object to in the reasoning. I feel that Nina Lundström has a little misunderstood what we are saying. Now I have always said that the report is not about airline tax, but I have noticed that I myself have been drawn into that debate anyway. But what's important to say is, I'm flying in private. I'm flying on duty. I'm gonna keep flying in private. I'm gonna keep flying in the line of duty. The question at stake is: should I pay what it costs? That is what the question is about. It's not about me taking a boat to America. I'm gonna keep flying to America. But the question is, should I pay what it costs for the climate? Then our answer is: Air travel cannot be the kind of traffic that slips away from its costs. Air travel must also bear its costs for the climate. That is the question. It's not about us shutting down domestic flights. It's not about us closing flights to the United States or stopping flying. It is about who should pay for the costs that this entails.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-720	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, Rikard Larsson who brings the aviation tax debate into this, and I will answer the question. However, in order to address other aspects of the report, I would also like to point out that this is a holistic approach. When we have so much objection to a tax structure, I think you should listen to it. I think it can bear to think about for all of us who sit on the committee and in Parliament. I and the Liberals are warm friends of instruments when we see that they actually act as instruments. But when there are so many objections about both environmental impacts and many other things, I think you should stop, think about a lap and also broaden the discussion: If you are not a warm friend of the airline tax, what do you want to do instead? I tried to describe that in my speech. I also find the comparison with going to New York interesting. If you introduce a tax in Sweden that makes it impossible to fly from Sweden, but you first have to go to another country where you do not have the air tax and fly from there, then I can think about: What consistency and effect does it have for flights nationally and not least for the environmental issue? That is why we in the Liberals have said – and also the Alliance has acted – that it is good to discuss the issue internationally and try to find international agreements, because we can see that in those countries where it has both introduced and removed it is because it has led to many consequences. In committee, I asked a question about Norway. We could see that there had been the consequences of the closure of certain routes, which had affected certain parts of the Norwegian population northwards. We believe that we should learn from this and, if we are to have instruments, see what kind of instruments we should have. The instruments are supposed to play a role, and that is where we have landed in the fact that the criticism of this structure is so great that we cannot support it.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-725	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very important, just as Nina Lundström says, that when you get criticism and recording, you should also listen to this. I also think it is important to see the whole picture. There are also countries which have introduced air tax and which still have air tax. Germany is such a country. I think it's a bit risky if we paint a picture of aviation disappearing from Sweden if we introduce air tax. Only a few weeks ago, we flew from Germany. The flight is still there and is quite strong in Germany, so of course these huge horror scenarios should be avoided. It is my belief that aviation will not disappear from Sweden if we introduce a flight tax. On the other hand, we must closely monitor the impact of this, and I fully agree with Nina Lundström: you should listen to those in the industry, you should listen to everyone who is interested in this issue, you should take on board the views and you should follow up the reforms you make carefully. The message was a bit the same here in Parliament when we abolished the discount on employers' contributions for young people: This would lead to that virtually no young people had jobs in Sweden anymore. But youth unemployment has fallen and is lower than when you had the rebate on employers' contributions from the bourgeois parties. With this I would have said: take the criticism seriously, but also be a little careful with the great horror descriptions!
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-730	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl from the Moderates had a long speech just about all the disadvantages and reactions that have come from the outside world, from many different actors. I think it is important to remember, and also to respect Parliament's decisions, that there is strong opposition to this particular tax because there are so many different arguments against it. I still think that somewhere is something you have to relate to. I also note that Rikard Larsson has many colleagues in the country who have exactly the same opinion as the majority in the Riksdag, i.e. strong objections and a strong concern. Then I think there's every reason for us to listen. This debate also makes it very difficult to get through with other proposals that one party might think are important as contributions to the environmental and climate issue. Now Rikard Larsson has no reply left, but I still find it a little remarkable that exactly what is said here in the debate from us who feel a great worry about this tax also comes from Rikard Larsson's own ranks in the country, and that worry is very accentuated. I believe that if we are to gain acceptance and credibility in terms of instruments and taxes, they should have a very clear consequence. In any case, there should be clear support for this, and that is why I must also say, Mr President, that I find it somewhat provocative in view of the opposition in this House to the particular airline tax to continue to operate it and perhaps also to launch it for decision in Parliament.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-734	Mr President, I would like to Aviation is of great importance to Sweden's economy and competitiveness. It is one of our most important modes of transport and one that cannot be replaced in its ability to move many people quickly over long distances. Aviation is crucial for business, jobs and tourism. It contributes more than anything to our international contacts. Air travel has enabled Swedish companies to do business around the world, for Swedes to visit the whole world and not least to live and work in different parts of the world. That is why aviation is valuable as a traffic law, and that is why we Christian Democrats want to see an aviation strategy that protects and ensures the competitiveness of Swedish aviation. Unfortunately, this is not the kind of aviation strategy we have received from the government, despite the announcement to the government to develop an aviation strategy that strengthens the competitiveness of aviation in order to strengthen the conditions for jobs and growth in the aviation industry and secure the needs of business and private individuals for transport nationally and internationally. Mr President, I would like to In short, I am disappointed with the government's presented aviation strategy. The reason for this can be read in the first paragraph on the first page: The aviation industry and the aeronautics industry contribute about 90 000 jobs and 75 billion to the Swedish bnp. The fact that industries such as tourism and trade have access to aviation provides an additional 100 000 jobs and between 80 and 100 billion SEK to bnp. In other words, aviation is extremely important for growth in the country, for jobs, for industry – yes, for the whole of Sweden. That is why we Christian Democrats, together with the alliance parties, have addressed an announcement to the government to develop an aviation strategy that protects the aviation industry, but the outcome of the government is the opposite. Air travel shall be penalised by a national flight tax which increases the cost of travel within the country and to other countries and is an obstacle to growth. Mr President, I would like to Now the strategy is on the table. The only concrete proposal in the strategy is to introduce a national airline tax. The proposal does not benefit Swedish business but contributes to unfair competition and is a severe blow to Swedish airports and airlines. The aviation industry is today highly competitive and can cope with small margins. One such example is the partly state-owned airline SAS, which has financial difficulties and has already started planning to move operations from Sweden in order to achieve profitability. They warn against the introduction of a national airline tax. Mr President, I would like to The total cost to the aviation industry with the introduction of a national aviation tax will generate about SEK 2 billion each year to the state. It is the passengers and airlines who will pay this bill. A simple domestic trip will be 80 SEK more expensive, a foreign trip to some EU countries will be 280 SEK more expensive per traveller, and for longer trips abroad the travel will be 430 SEK more expensive per traveller. Families with children, business, tourists and professional commuters will have to pay the government's announced national airline tax of approximately SEK 2 billion. Mr President, I would like to In Norway, the effect of the air tax has been to close regional airports. In the Netherlands, after a year after its bnp had fallen by 11 billion, the airline tax was abolished. Denmark and Ireland have also had a flight tax but have phased it out. Furthermore, the climate benefit of a national air tax is minimal, about 0.2 percent. Of course, we will do our best to reach the goal of fossil-independent transport by 2030 and fossil-free by 2045. In order to meet climate targets and reduce CO2 emissions and so on, a shift to sustainable transport is needed, and action needs to be taken in many areas. The ICAO decision a few months ago is a good step towards reducing the climate impact of international aviation through emission allowances. With effective and global instruments via ICAO and the EU, we can reduce the climate and environmental impact of aviation. With new technologies, new modern and fuel-efficient engines, international emission allowances, flying smarter with straight lines that shorten travel time and with increased access to cheaper biofuels and more, we can reduce emissions from aviation. Mr President, I would like to The Government writes that in 2014, it appointed a coordinator for Bromma Airport. But was it not the case that the government appointed a coordinator against Bromma airport who actually wanted to close the airport to build housing on the ground after 2038, when the airport contract expires? The Swedish people and the business community want Bromma airport to remain. Bromma is the hub of domestic aviation and is of great importance to regional airports. In 2016, Bromma airport broke a new passenger record with over 2.5 million trips and relieves Arlanda with its 2.5 million trips. The three most common destinations are Umeå, Malmö and Gothenburg. Of Bromma's 17 lines are 13 domestic flights. In other words: Bromma airport holds Sweden together and is a matter for the whole country, and therefore the airport should be developed. There's every reason to make sure Bromma isn't shut down. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are proposing requirements for alco-tests by pilots and crew members when boarding and disembarking on aircraft. A number of cases have been revealed where employees on the flight have been found to be under the influence of alcohol in the ministry. This could pose a major risk to passenger safety and increase the risk of aircraft accidents. In order to ensure safety, the Christian Democrats propose requirements for alco-tests of pilots and crew members during boarding and disembarkation on the aircraft. Mr President, I would like to Regional airports are of great importance not least for domestic aviation and bind Sweden together. The 28 non-governmental airports create jobs, increase opportunities for tourism throughout the country and make it possible to live and operate in different parts of the country. However, they report recurrent operating deficits and are in need of state aid. The Christian Democrats protect regional airports and their survival. At present, non-state airports with procured services receive state operating grants to cover part of the economic deficit and rely on state and municipal contributions to survive. The purpose of the operating grant is to ensure interregional air traffic throughout the country. Therefore, regional airports receive a public grant of approximately SEK 100 million each year. This financing model is not compatible with EU rules and is temporary. Mr President, I would like to In order to safeguard the non-governmental regional airports and their continued existence, a proper review is essential in order to create long-term sustainable conditions for state and municipal support. The government is giving with one hand today and at the same time taking back with the other hand and putting regional airports in a bad position. To contribute state resources to the operation while imposing national airline tax on the industry does not rhyme well and will lead to some airports being forced to close down. The Government's aviation strategy risks regional airports with the proposed national air tax. Expensive flights mean fewer will travel, and it will be less profitable to operate these airports. The consequence is that rural areas suffer and lose contact and access to other parts of Sweden and the larger labour market regions. One possible option proposed by the Christian Democrats is that, for example, the state finances and ensures the operation of fire and rescue services, customs, security control, snow clearance, etc. in areas that are crucial for operating and that other operations are financed by local and regional owners. It is a method that is tried in other countries and works. Domestic aviation, which is of great importance to the whole country, needs continued state financial support to make it. Mr President, I would like to It is time to develop a national strategy and modernised legislation for drones that both embrace the potential of new technologies and safeguard aviation safety. The use of drones has increased sharply in Sweden as well as in other countries in recent years. Drones will play an important role in the future, for example in parcel deliveries, aerial photos, healthcare, agriculture, law enforcement, and more. In order not to stifle the development and use of drones, a national strategy and modernised legislation are essential to safeguard aviation safety and safeguard the potential of this new technology. Mr President, I would like to The stated goal when the Alliance Government started working on a Swedish aviation strategy was that it would strengthen the competitiveness of aviation. When the red-greens took over the work, they toned down their ambitions considerably. Instead, it would now be based on the transport policy objectives and the Europe's lowest unemployment target by 2020. It is clear that the government has given up the Alliance's objective of strengthening the competitiveness of aviation. The only concrete proposal is a national airline tax which will also be against the government's own target of Europe's lowest unemployment. The study estimates that the number of passengers from Swedish airports will decrease by 450 000 to 1.5 million and that up to 10,000 jobs will disappear while the economy will shrink by over 5 billion SEK. Only the airline SAS is expected to have an annual cost of SEK 500 million with a national air tax and is considering moving operations to neighbouring countries. In addition, the introduction of the air tax will have the opposite effect to the Government's investment in Arlanda. Fewer airlines choose Arlanda, and the entire investment may be unnecessary. Mr President, I would like to The proposed national aviation tax is only a signal policy to accommodate the Green Party in the government. It is an internal, populist act with devastating consequences for Sweden's economy. Despite massive criticism from the majority of the Riksdag, authorities, municipalities, regions, industry, the Swedish National Audit Office, Statskontoret, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish Growth Agency, the Government intends to proceed with a national aviation tax that also lacks climate effect and hits hard on accessibility, employment and competitiveness in the country. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats propose that the proposal for a national aviation tax be placed in the waste bin. With this, I would like to express my support for reservations 2 and 9.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-761	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm back on the aviation tax issue, which I wouldn't be up to. However, since both Robert Halef and some previous speaker have come up with what I think are misunderstandings that are important to correct, I go up. The division of labour is such that it is the government that adopts strategies. The aviation strategy will not be dealt with by the Riksdag. But it is not the government that makes tax decisions in strategies. It is the Riksdag that decides on taxes. A flight tax will be dealt with in the Riksdag. This does not mean that the government, when it adopts a flight strategy, has decided on a flight tax. I think it is important to have that order of trains clear up, otherwise it may be confusing for those outside this House. I have a few questions for Robert Halef. The aviation strategy that you are now seeking to repeal includes, among other things, the desire to review the regulatory framework for drones. Robert Halef talked about it. Is it not a good thing that the government has taken the initiative to review that regulatory framework? You want the strategy to be torn up. On the Arlanda issue, Robert Halef was on the Bromma mission. After all, that mission was redone as a result of an announcement by this House and is now instead about how to develop Arlanda. That announcement was made. Now they want to set up a Arlanda Council to develop Arlanda. Then Robert Halef says something that I think if you introduce an aviation strategy, the Christian Democrats do not think that we should proceed with the development plans for Arlanda. Is that correct? For those who, in eight years, performed a meeting on the aviation strategy in the weeks before they handed over power, I think it would have been nice to have a slightly lower tone.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-768	Mr President, I would like to There were several questions, to be answered in a short time. With regard to the aviation strategy and the air tax, we are taking a position on the air transport strategy presented. The Government's ambition is that the tax should be introduced. ..................................................... As an opposition, we in the alliance parties must oppose when we disagree with the government's proposals. That is exactly what we have done in committee. We have the majority of committees, and as it stands we also have a majority in Parliament. This is a tax that is harmful to Swedish growth and the economy. It will affect families with children and even the sports movement, whose members need to travel within the country to practise their sport. It is a tax that does not benefit the environment. It is only a game between the government parties to accommodate each other. It is so-called signal policy that has no effect – except that jobs will disappear. This will put Sweden in a bad position economically in relation to other countries. In particular, the airline will have to take a lot of pain out of this penalty tax, you could call it, because it is only national. With regard to Arlanda Airport, the strategy states that it has great ambitions to invest in Arlanda. I agree that Arlanda needs those efforts in order to be able to assert itself against Helsinki, Copenhagen and so on. But with the airline tax that you want to introduce, you are putting away the legs at Arlanda Airport. Several airlines will move their business, and some who might have planned to fly from Arlanda will probably not do so because of the national airline tax.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-774	Mr President, I would like to No, the Riksdag does not take a position on the aviation strategy. The government establishes strategies. What the Riksdag is doing in this case, what the majority of the Riksdag consisting of the Alliance and SD does, is to say that the aviation strategy adopted by the government is to be demolished. It should not be completed. The aviation strategy does not take a stand on air tax. The issue of aviation taxation comes to Parliament in another way and is treated just like all other tax issues. What this strategy considers is that it wants to work on social conditions in aviation, that it wants to review support for regional airports in order to provide them with long-term sustainable conditions and that it wants to develop Arlanda. It is about the kind of questions that your announcement now says: Stop and prove! I don't want you to keep working on that. You should not proceed with this flight strategy. You're gonna get a new one. That's what your announcement is about. It is not a question of stopping the airline tax, because it is not affected here. The government does not take a position on it in its aviation strategy. Of course, I understand and respect that you want to talk about aviation taxes. But let us not deceive ourselves into thinking that the decisions we make have a different effect than they do. The decisions you make now have nothing to do with airline tax. That's why you've also avoided writing your flight tax in the announcement. It just wouldn't have been possible. It is not a matter for our committee. That is not our report.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-780	Mr President, I would like to Taxes are handled in the Tax Committee. When the aviation strategy was presented, the issue of airline tax had been discussed in committee. The majority, the so-called majority who, with the support of the Left Party, want to rule the country, did not want to listen to the criticism. I have read a lot of opinions from referral bodies that are critical of this tax. It is harmful to Sweden. It increases travel costs for people living and working in different parts of the country. We don't think it's fair. For this reason, we have tried to get the government and government parties to refrain from the penalty tax that a national tax on flights and passengers is. Since we have not heard our criticisms, the time is political to raise the issue in this House and to say that the majority in Parliament is against the introduction of an airline tax. The majority of all referrals are also against. The Member of the Green Party spoke earlier about polls, but we have to go after the consultation bodies. They're the ones we're supposed to rely on the most. Eight out of ten say no to the national airline tax. A question for you, Rikard Larsson, before we split up: How do you explain this to the sports movement, to all the people who depend on flying to work to be able to live and work in different parts of the country, for all families with children? We're a traveling people. What do you say to families with children who are going to Thailand who get several thousand crowns more expensive flight tickets – without it having any effect on the environment at all? There are international air routes that can access the environmental impact. ( ANDRE VICE TALMANNEN: Rikard Larsson has no more lines, but I will grant a line to answer the questions that Robert Halef asked. )
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-787	Mr President, I would like to What I'm saying to them is that you can book your Thailand trip. You can continue flying in Sweden where there are no other good alternatives. You can keep flying to America. But you have to be prepared to pay what it costs for the climate. We cannot allow certain sectors of our society to drift away from the costs of the climate impact of transport. I'll tell them that.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-788	Mr President, I would like to Let's move on to something completely different. The report deals not only with a possible flight tax, but also with a new mode of transport – a new mode of transport that is increasingly emerging. It's about drones. I say new modes of transport, because that is exactly what this is all about. This is not normal road or land transport, nor is it ordinary air transport, but it is something completely new. The Parliament's Transport Committee, and hopefully also the Riksdag, would therefore like to address an announcement to the government saying that the government needs to develop a national strategy for this particular new mode of transport. There are a total of two in the flight strategy that concern drones at all. None of the paragraphs contain anything concrete – not a single proposal. This cannot be regarded as a strategy. The Transport Committee says that a strategy needs to include technology-affirming measures that highlight the great potential of this technology while ensuring safety, so that it can be done safely and effectively. There should be order in the airspace. There's supposed to be order on the ground. There should be order and order in our traffic systems, even when new technologically innovative solutions emerge. If we do not allow them to grow, the Swedish economy and the labour market will lose a number of high-tech and highly specialised jobs. We tend to be proud that we have a knowledge-intensive labour market. In this situation, not having a strategy for taking care of this new high-tech mode of transport is astonishing. There are other countries in line fighting to get the establishment of new modern companies working on this technology. There are trade fairs where the trade bodies and ministers of nations are present to attract these companies to take part in the development. Sweden is not present anywhere where this is happening, nowhere. We're not even mentioned. And so we should be proud of our high-tech labour market, with knowledge-intensive jobs and high education. It's just that it disappears somewhere else, because the government has no strategy. There is no strategy for how we should be attractive and be a country where this happens. There is no comprehensive strategy for how this can be incorporated into everyday life. There is no strategy on how safety can be guaranteed when the number of drones becomes larger and larger. There is no strategy on how to deal with the camera issue, except that it should be moved from one legislation to another. However, there is still no strategy for the impact on the new legislation. There is no effective strategy for the prosecution of airspace crime, or for that matter the prevention of terrorist threats. The police are still on the case if a terrorist attack were to take place with the help of a drone. What you have at hand is to draw the service weapon or – if you have time, which you are unlikely to do – to locate the driver of the drone on the ground, which may be hidden on a rooftop or any other place that is difficult to find. This is what is available today, and it is not to be filled. It's hard to do the right thing. Today, in principle, there is no way of doing the right thing if we are to engage in this activity. We think it should be easy to do the right thing. There is no strategy to make it easy to do the right thing, but it is just difficult to do the right thing. It is strategyless and contentless, and it is sweeping formulations in two pieces in a very long and also otherwise rather contentless strategy. Mr President, I would like to The announcement that the Committee on Transport and Tourism is proposing to the House that the government should receive from the Parliament takes up all this in principle. The strategy requested by the Riksdag from the Government can contain all of this. If it doesn't, we won't even be second on the ball, because now we're way behind. Other countries are looking at special air traffic controller functions for this form of technology, because it is recognised that it will not be able to be incorporated into existing air traffic management technologies. Other countries are looking at how to fight crime in airspace and how to secure protection objects and public order. In Sweden, we are lagging behind. With this, I support the committee's proposal on the point of drone strategy.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-802	Mr President, I would like to I will not prolong the debate itself, but since it has been said that we – S, MP and V – sat down together with SD and negotiated during the last parliamentary term, I want to be very clear: we – S, MP and V – have never negotiated with the Swedish Democrats, and I want to put this on the record.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-804	Mr President, I would like to So we stand here again and debate our high school – a high school that has many challenges, as many as both two and four years ago. If I had taken an old speech, you might not have noticed. But just as my shirt is newly ironed, my speech is newly written. There are several problems with upper secondary school. The sad thing is that I can't see any sign that the government is taking the problems seriously. There is no power of action. The problems are well known. It is true that there is a final report from the Upper Secondary Study, which has a lot of good proposals, but some measures should already have been taken. What general problems do we have? Of course, the biggest thing is those who leave school without a complete degree or drop out prematurely. This is a major failure that costs both the individual and society. The pressure on the vocational programmes is far too low. The trend is international and could be seen from 2005 to 2006. That is the second major problem. The third is that upper secondary school is unable to deliver skilled young people to the labour market. Equally bad is the lack of delivery of young people to higher education. Knowledge levels are too low, many higher education courses are allowed to start at upper secondary level and valuable time is lost. There is a great deal of ignorance about the programmes, and there are far too many programme exchanges. This means, in many cases, that training is extended to at least four years. This becomes costly for both individuals and society. And then there's the insecurity. In a report, the school inspectorate has shown that it is widespread. Although there is still a great deal of satisfaction in Swedish schools, fortunately, insecurity is spreading, both the one caused by internal stress and the one caused by external events. Mr President, I would like to I have listed here some of the biggest problems and challenges. Are there solutions? Yes, there is. We need to increase the number of hours of teaching and reconnect the length of the course to the number of hours in order to increase the mass of knowledge in school. The time of the SUVs must be increased and their skills and status increased. Of course, this applies not least to the SYVs in comprehensive school who will give good advice before the upper secondary school elections. We have a lot of new arrivals at school. This places extra demands on us. That is why we propose that professional and language introduction be combined. We also hope to have the others change your mind on this important issue. I therefore believe that we need to regulate some things in terms of hours and so on. But we also need to open up and make high school more flexible. It can be both that there are shorter courses and that it is allowed to read substantially over 3 000 points. It may be a question of cooperating between programmes and combining in a different way, perhaps merging parts of the trade programme with the economic programme. At all, we need to erase the differences between the various programmes, between an A- and a B-team. Therefore, it is good that the Gymnasie inquiry proposes the same entry requirements for all students. To overcome insecurity, we need to allow the headmaster greater powers to remove messy students or those who pose a direct threat to others. More staff is needed, not just teachers. Last, but not least, I think today's course gymnasium is a villain in the drama for increased stress and hence insecurity. I see more disadvantages with the course upper secondary school, and that is why we want the course grades to be investigated and also hope that you see benefits that can be found with a return to subject grades. Mr President, I would like to There are some areas where we have a common understanding with the government and where we can certainly come to an agreement. But there are at least a few areas where we question this lack of action. This concerns the IB programme and the nature conservation schools. Both of the suggestions make it worse for the students. I do not understand this logic. It makes it difficult for the ambitious students of nature to move on and narrows the foundations for many schools. As far as IB students are concerned, UHÄ makes it significantly more difficult for these students to compete for places of education. In the future, I believe that the upper secondary schools of the region must cooperate more and more closely. These are the basis for sufficiently large programmes and the right kind of dimensioning for future labour markets. I also believe in better cooperation with the regional university. This will be a win-win situation, not least when it comes to getting more senior lecturers. We need to strengthen research-related teaching. We can do that by getting more senior lecturers out of the schools. Twenty years ago there were 1,500 lecturers in schools, now there are about 250. Mr President, I would like to We need to improve knowledge outcomes and make schools more flexible and more secure. The teaching situation is most important, but also systemic issues that the OECD has pointed out. The chain of governance is failing, especially in many municipalities. That is why aid and support are needed, and the state needs to point out more clearly what needs to be done. I support reservations 9 and 13.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-819	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 10. Most of us who are going to debate here have been on the High School investigation. I believe that most of us have found that many of the things contained in the report by the High-Level Inquiry, and the measures proposed, are rather broad-based parliamentary. I heard Michael Svensson mention here that it might be useful to review this with subject marks. As far as subject ratings are concerned, we are, in fact, three parties which already have a concrete proposal today. It's a shame the Moderates didn't have time to hang on to it. Then we would probably have had a little better pressure and, above all, we might have been able to do this earlier. Mr President, I would like to Based on the professional experience I have, I think that the subject grades versus the course grades are one of the major problems we have had in the Swedish school system. For those of you who are not familiar with the difference between course grades and subject grades, I can tell you the following. Course grades you read once. Then the grade is given. You read each course separately. Subject grades, which most of the Swedish people have had, could be improved at the end. You could step up your grades. When you are 15 - 16 years old and you start in high school, you may not have thought fully about what you actually want to do. You may need an opportunity to improve your grades. We have big drop-outs in high school. I would dare to say that the course grades are one of the major reasons. In fact, the only way to improve your grades is to step off the training you go and start over from scratch in order to improve your grades. You didn't have to do that with the old subject grades. Then you could improve your grades in the end. There are advantages with course grades, as you can read more points and have a differentiated upper secondary school. But there are also problems there. It is precisely this opportunity to study many different courses and choose many different lines also involves difficulties. Mr President, I would like to I read four-year technical line. The people who hired me at the first firm knew exactly what courses I had studied. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. Now the students have sometimes chosen courses according to interest and sometimes perhaps because they have not been able to take the heavy courses that are actually needed. This means that as an entrepreneur, you are not faced with a variant but with umpteen variants of pupils who come out and who will try to be employable. And when they go to college, these students may not have the basics that they need either. These things have rendered that the course grades have caused problems instead of making it easier. But, as I said, there are small advantages. Let's not ignore that. The Swedish Democrats have also proposed that there should be a two-year high school. In the 1990s, if I remember correctly, we had 27 practical-aesthetic lines and 9 theoretical lines. Of these nine theoretical lines, one was four years old, the rest was three years old. The 27 practical-aesthetic lines were two years old. All of a sudden in the 1990s it was decided that all the lines should be made three years old. When talking to companies, they have found that this has not made students more employable. A few students may have had the opportunity to continue their studies at the university. But the pupils – 25 – 30 per cent of Sweden's population – who chose the two-year high school did so because they wanted to go to work. They wanted to come out to work, make money and move away from home. Now we have extended the study period for another year. That means, as I said, no backup. What happens is that a number of people drop out of high school because they think it's too long. The advantage of the two-year practical upper secondary school was that it came into working life quite early. Having said that, I would like to say the following: Please, when you next have to make such a big change in the Swedish school system, can you then do a risk assessment, research and analysis before you do something and not just come up with a lot of different proposals to find out afterwards that it does not work so well and that you have to go back? Mr President, I would like to There are so many things within the Swedish school system where we have had to go back. Teacher training is one. We have had so many variants over the last 20 years, but now the teacher training looks almost exactly as it did from the beginning. I recently had the opportunity to be in Singapore for two weeks to look at their school from within. I've seen their systems, and I've seen a great many advantages in how to work there. What you work with in Singapore is above all a fantastic contact between business and school. You have an extremely small mismatch, which is a big problem in the Swedish school system, as we have many high school students who read what they find interesting. Unfortunately, however, this does not lead to employment. Or extremely many are looking for the same lines, even though you know from the beginning that there may be one or two places to offer in the whole of Sweden. This has been done through many different methods, but above all because companies are closely linked. Here I know that we are several parties that think the same thing, namely that we should have a good study guidance where the school and the companies sit together to make sure that the students actually choose the lines that can lead to work. Mr President, I would like to We have proposed another thing, and it is a technology bridge. For those students who have mischoiced – who have come out to unemployment and perhaps today are sitting and would like to re-read – we have a proposal for a technology bridge. It is in technology companies that the major professions exist today. You may have taken a course, but you go in and take an extra year. It is simply a second chance to read the things that companies want. We have also talked to the teachers who work with the language introduction. It happened quite a lot in the autumn of 2015, and there were a lot of students in a short time. Most of them are in the system today. The problem with language introduction was that they put all students in the same class, regardless of their background in the school system – from those who had never read at all and were illiterate to those who might have gone up to eight nine years in primary school. It would have been easier to share the language introduction in two parts, some where the students have prior knowledge and some where the students have no prior knowledge at all. It would have greatly facilitated the teaching team. However, I look forward with hope that most of what the High School investigation has come up with, and on which most of the parties in this House agree, will be able to lay a long-term foundation. A number of months ago, Mr President, I received a question from the Economics about what is absolutely the most important thing in school policy, and the most important issue in school policy is long-termism and that we all know what is going on for a long time in Sweden. It will make it easier for parents, teachers, pupils, schools, colleges, teacher educations– you name it.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-837	Mr President, I would like to It's time to debate high school again. Let me start in a rather sad way, namely by saying that the report is rather narrow. It is about the motions we have submitted during the year, so these are not new proposals from the government. Wise proposals that we have already dealt with are in simplified management. To those of you who may listen to the debate or read the report and wonder where the other important questions are, I say: they are in part in the movements of the various parties, but they will certainly also come back when we discuss the high school bill that is coming. It was perhaps a bit boring and not very inspiring clarification, Mr President, but I wanted to do it anyway. I would also like to ask you now to accept reservation No 1. Of course, the Center Party supports other reservations from the party as well. Mr President, I would like to This debate may be a little side by side with the major discussions on upper secondary school, not least in view of the high school inquiry that has already been mentioned in the debate. The period for submitting referrals ended at the beginning of the month. It deals with issues such as more learning and higher quality, which I might prefer to call the most important issue when it comes to upper secondary school – to constantly focus on what drives quality in order for education to be as good as possible and to give students what they really need. A really good study and career guidance is another factor we need to highlight. We will certainly come back to these issues. It is precisely these days that many UF fairs – fairs for young entrepreneurship – are going on around the country. In May, it is time for the big fair in Stockholm, where many of the students will show their feet in different ways. They will show exciting business plans, have sales and booths and so on. The tragedy in this context is that much of the criticism that has been put forward in various referrals to the Gymnasie inquiry is that, if implemented in the way proposed, it will probably be more difficult to make room for the project activities that UF is. I hope that my colleagues in the committee will take this issue very seriously so that this important activity does not disappear or decrease unnecessarily. In fact, one must listen to how the professional programmes can make even more room for this important thing. I had the privilege of being at the fair in Skövde last week, and there were some brilliant business ideas and exciting business plans there. They were praised in different ways. There were amazing salesmen, and there was also some nervousness when young students would try to sell the product they had thought of. It was not without pride that a girl said: This is the first time the nursing program at Plusgymnasiet is at the UF fair, and we think it's so fun – we are so proud of this business. Among the previous proposals, particularly from the alliance parties, are proposals on how to promote entrepreneurial learning and allow it to become part of the whole education. I think it's extremely important to keep an eye on that in the future. It would be interesting to hear how Caroline Helmersson Olsson, who represents the government parties in this debate, relates to and thinks about the issue of entrepreneurial working methods and UF's possibilities for development. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has many suggestions on how to improve upper secondary school, especially in terms of vocational programmes and apprenticeships. Skills provision is perhaps one of the most crucial issues facing the entire working life in Sweden. It's a big challenge. I sometimes think about what we often highlight in the debate, namely the Council for young people to keep many doors open and wait to choose. If you look at this a little harshly, you can consider whether it is really such a wise advice to give. Wouldn't it be better to have a really good study and career guidance much earlier in primary school, so that students feel that they make well-informed choices – of course with the opportunity to re-election? It is about feeling more secure based on the skills and interests of the student himself and on the needs of the labour market. From the Center Party we therefore want to highlight the need to have a really good study and career guidance much earlier in school. It may cause students to actually dare to choose in a different way. The guidance should also be available to more parents who wonder how they need to be part of the guidance for their own children. Mr President, I would like to I turn to today's report. The Center Party has two reservations. One of the proposals is that older unaccompanied young people should have a quick way into vocational education and training without the requirement of a high school degree, or possibly actually be allowed to study the education in another language – for example English – in order to be able to assimilate it and not stop too much in their knowledge and competence development when they come to our country. We also need to see that the whole education sector can be used in terms of integration. I would like to highlight the folk high schools, which are an important part of this. They exist all over our country and have a long tradition of, as well as a great competence for, working with many different aspects of learning. If the assignment were extended so that folk high schools could carry out language introduction programmes at upper secondary level to a much greater extent, that would be very good. The report points out that this can be done today, but then we can also think about what lubricant we would have to provide if it were to be done to a greater extent. Folkhögskolan is good at motivating students who have completed a course or a programme to continue studying within folkhögskolan. I see not least general line within folkhögskolan as an important factor both for introduction and for creating conditions for learning and a good integration in Swedish society. When you come to our country, you often lack networks of different kinds. You may lack family and family that for various reasons does not come along, and you don't know many people in the places you come to. Folkhögskolan is unique in that it, if you also have the opportunity to live there, creates really good networks that you can use towards the end of the education and eventually even when looking for a job. Mr President, I would like to I'm gonna change tracks one more time. The Alliance carried out a career reform, and I would like to talk a little about what has also been in the debate before. Michael Svensson mentioned the number of lecturers in the Swedish school. The committee had an exciting hearing just a few weeks ago, where we were privileged to see what the research schools set up by the Alliance have led to. The committee has written a report on this. We also met representatives and principals of higher education institutions, and we met a living lecturer. When you hear lecturers talk about how they work in the Swedish upper secondary school, you want more students to have that opportunity. That is why I find it a bit regrettable that the government parties have now put a stop to the system in terms of career reforms, the number of lecturers and so on. A rather criticized teacher's salary lift was carried out, and it would be exciting to hear a discussion about how you viewed it in relation to career positions. I look forward to those answers too.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-853	Mr President, I would like to We are here to talk about the high school report, which is a little inconvenient, as has been said before. Upper secondary school has evolved from being a matter for a few to being a school for the vast majority. More and more young people have been given the opportunity to have more and better knowledge that meets increased demands from both work and society. For the Left Party, investment in education is a necessary prerequisite for the development and social liberation of society. Upper secondary school should therefore be a right and give all pupils more choice by conveying knowledge and education. That is why we want all young people to have full upper secondary education. I'll never let the profit-making interest run high school. In previous debates we have heard other parties discussing this issue. It is an issue that is currently under consideration in the Profit Investigation, and proposals are to come, but I think it is important to point that out in this debate as well. There are several different ways to run free schools. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's report Private actors in preschool and school, in 2013 more than 70 000 students attended public limited-liability upper secondary schools, while nearly 10 000 pupils attended upper secondary schools that were run as foundations or other forms of operation. Among the independent upper secondary schools, public limited liability companies currently dominate strongly. An increasing share of free schools is also part of large groups, and the market is dominated by some large school groups with so-called venture capital companies as owners. Stock companies, and in particular venture capital companies, today have the task of generating profits for their owners. The Left Party believes that this is wrong and incompatible with the school's mission, which is to provide the best possible education. The goal of the school should be to give students the best knowledge – not to generate profits for private companies. In other countries, legislation is much less generous towards private profit. Although in Norway all forms of company are allowed for independent schools, there is a requirement for all public funds to benefit pupils. In Finland, schools are run by communities of general interest and must not be run for economic gain. In Denmark, it is forbidden to run schools in the form of public limited liability companies, precisely in view of the possibility of profit distribution, and only non-profit foundations may be principals. In addition, a single principal may not run more than one school. The large surpluses in the educational sector are a consequence of the continued efforts of profit-making independent schools to reduce their costs. One way is to employ fewer teachers, who are also unauthorized to a greater extent than in municipal upper secondary schools. This, of course, reduces wage costs, and it is also saved in that part of the activity that cannot be directly attributed to teaching. Very few profit-making free schools have their own school libraries. Instead, they use public libraries. Of course, it is positive that students come into contact with these libraries, but at the same time it means that the school transfers its costs to the municipality. As I said, we are waiting with interest to see what proposals will be made in the future, but it is also interesting to see what is going on at the same time behind the curtains. When the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other actors with strong links to both these profit-making companies and to the Swedish Democrats are allowed to decide, the children are like money bags that should be available in a school market. The profit lobby, which has these venture capitalists and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise behind them and at the forefront, is very active on this issue. By spreading alternative facts and having official meetings that seek the active support of the Swedish Democrats, they are now working hard to keep these profits. As many as a quarter of the students who start upper secondary school either drop out or leave upper secondary school without complete grades. At the same time, the popularity of vocational programmes has clearly decreased since the reform of upper secondary school. In order for all young people to complete upper secondary education, all upper secondary education programmes must be attractive and the structure of the education perceived as meaningful. In the past, about half of upper secondary school pupils attended a vocational preparatory programme. Since the introduction of the new Gy 11 upper secondary school, barely one third have applied for a vocational programme. In the first application for the new upper secondary school, the percentage of applicants for vocational programmes had fallen by about 10%, which is worrying. There are several ways to face this. On the one hand, it is about meeting students with high expectations in school, whether they are vocational or pre-study programmes, and on the other hand it is about removing the archaic notion of the difference between the theoretical and the practical professions. The labour market today looks a different way. Of course, this is also about, and goes with, the attractiveness of professional programmes in terms of higher education qualifications. The fact that we have not had direct university qualifications for professional programmes for a number of years has led to less attractiveness and less security for students. Not everyone knows what they want to do when they're 16 years old. You can change, and then you just have to spend several extra years adding the theoretical subjects. The government should therefore make such a proposal as we imagine in the high school bill on this subject. I would also like to talk about the subject-shaped – rather than course-shaped – high school. In the 90's, upper secondary school was divided into courses, as some have mentioned before. Instead of having a rating system where development over time was rewarded, we now have a system where students, regardless of knowledge development over time, risk getting lower grades because they have received low grades in the first courses during high school. This has resulted in many people wanting to read their grades in municipal adult education, which is not always easy. It has also become a stress factor for both teachers and students. It is important to perform early in high school at the top of your skills, because an early course grade cannot be changed, regardless of which grade you get in the same course later on. According to a survey carried out by the National Association of Teachers and the Swedish Student Unions in 2015, many students in preparatory programmes report that they have a high workload and experience so much stress that they have considered dropping out of high school. Pupils who are tired of school or have had other difficulties in comprehensive school risk being punished early on with the course grades. Thus, this system is likely to be a strong contributor to the drop-out from today's high school. According to the National Association of Teachers, the frequent grading is also a stress factor for teachers. If we want to improve the working environment, this is something that we can change quite quickly. My time is up, but I'm just gonna talk for one more minute. I was going to come to my request, which is about labour market skills for all students in upper secondary school. In recent years, it has been very active for students to gain increased knowledge of self-employment and entrepreneurship, but the fact is that most people become employees in existing companies or in the public sector. It is therefore very important to have labour market knowledge as an addition to this. Many students today are not prepared for the labour market when they come out, and we in the Left Party therefore believe that the subject of labour market knowledge should be included in all secondary education programmes. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 7. In addition to this, we are talking about aesthetic activities, which we know the government has put forward in the proposal. There are also a number of other proposals, which I choose to leave behind.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-877	Mr President, I would like to Although Daniel Riazat is a left-winger, I can sometimes see some wisdom in some of the proposals, but here you probably went a little wrong. I think that the Left Party has been left unopposed for far too long in terms of profits in welfare and free schools. It is a populist proposal, and I know how you feel about populist proposals from other parties in this Parliament. There is, I think, a lot of ignorance about the profits. Let me just briefly sort out a couple of concepts. Locally run schools and health care companies can sometimes have a cost index of over 100. It's often no problem. You can take money from other businesses, and if it doesn't work, you can even raise the tax. Then there comes a private company that can bring down the cost index not only to 100 but to 95. So there is the so-called profit, which is actually a saving for taxpayers. So it is not theft of tax money, as one would argue. Sifo has asked the Swedish people: How many percent do you think the free schools have at the bottom of the line? You say 25%. But that's about 2.9 percent. The statistics are quite clear and show that publicly run schools in municipalities where one, two or more free schools have increased their results. I have close examples of this from my municipality of residence. The question of the number of teachers I would ask to return to in the next line.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-884	Mr President, I would like to Even though we had agreed not to take a line, I will answer the question. As far as the free schools are concerned, we have an agreement with the government that is very clear. It does not mean that you should not be able to join p lus in your business, which of course is a prerequisite for your business to be able to manage, but what it is about is where the money goes once you make a plus result. Where we have seen in recent years, such as Academedia or English School, there have been big profits that have not gone to school. Schools have also been bought and sold on, which has generated huge profits from our tax money that has not benefited the children. Today we see another factor in this, and it is about all the huge money that is spent from our school money to drive a profit lobby that will spread alternative facts about the profit investigation, which will ensure that the Swedish democrats' support is sought to get this through in Parliament and that simply wants to do everything in their power to continue to charge even more of our tax money. This will not affect actors who are serious and who wish the children well. It is about those people and companies who want to run a business solely for profit. Although it is difficult for the Moderates to have that attitude, because of their close contacts with the profit lobby that exists today, I still think it is quite easy for the public to understand that a person who has run companies in the banking sector has nothing to do with the Swedish school in the past. If you are afraid of not being able to carry on with your business, then go back to the banking world!
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-888	Mr President, I would like to I find it sad that the Left Party is not talking about more quality in school but is trying to pursue an operating form that often turns out to be very good. Yeah, there's been bad guys and bad guys, and we're gonna fix that and we're gonna fix it. But overall, the business works very well. Academedia operates an activity with training programmes, skills provision and further training that many municipalities would be jealous of. In terms of the number of teachers, the criticism is that free schools have lower numbers of teachers. This is because many of them have a holiday agreement instead of a holiday agreement. It's easy to control. If this proposal were to become a reality, I think it would have disastrous consequences. Of course, I hope not. Instead, we are talking about a knowledge contract that will apply to both municipally run schools and free schools. If the results are not successful, the state should be able to take over. If you take over a free school you should of course not be able to pick out any profit during that time. I hereby invite Daniel Riazat to a long coffee with me, so let's talk business.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-893	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Michael. To clarify, we in the Left Party are clear in our criticism of what is not good in municipal schools and see that there are things that need to be improved. There is no talk about it – it applies to independent and municipal schools. However, the difference is that municipal schools have a mission and a regulation that leads to the need to take care of all pupils. It's not surprising if you start an independent school out in Danderyd, where virtually all parents have an educational background, to get very good results and then be able to sign with it. It is much more difficult to run a similar school in an area where parents have less academic education. This means that if we are to talk about quality, we must go into the details of quality and not just talk about the fact that the private actors, who have also led to greater segregation in our country, are so good that the municipalities would be jealous of them. We have a lot of Academedia-owned schools in my municipality, Falun. Believe me, we're not jealous of Academedia! When it comes to inviting to coffee Michael knows that I like to have coffee with him. But I know there are others who would like to have coffee with Michael, and it is the Swedish Democrats. It is therefore the party which today wants to go to the Moderates, and which the Moderates have accepted in order to get through, among other things, these issues, but also to put an end to any future red-green government. When it comes to the consequences, this will have major consequences. Even if we do not get through this today or tomorrow we will get through it sooner or later, because the majority of the Swedish people realise that their tax money should not go to any directors who have their bank accounts in Jersey, but that they should go to the children and teachers, to get more staff and to raise wages. You mentioned earlier why Academedia has fewer employees. In addition, they pay an average of $2,500 (U.S.) less than municipal schools, and that is something they should be ashamed of.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-898	Mr President, I would like to Already the ancient Greeks – this will be a long speech – had high school. Then it was something for the training of youth and later for its spiritual education. Upper secondary school was then used more for education in the 16th century. In Sweden, high school was introduced in the 17th century, often linked to the residential cities. Gradually, the upper secondary school was expanded to include more and more people. It's been a good education. More and more students in Sweden are going further and further education. However, we need to consider whether uniformity has finally gone too far. For some, it is positive that more and more people are going to high school and that more and more people are going to high school in the decades to come. But perhaps we need to consider whether uniformity can continue in the future or whether, on the contrary, we need to move towards more differentiation in the different orientations of upper secondary school. Too many people drop out of high school today. We know that many people do not complete their education, and when they do not, it will be very difficult to get into the labour market. In fact, a large proportion of those who are young and unemployed today are because they have not completed upper secondary school education. I know that it is better to complete upper secondary school education, even if it is a little shorter, than not doing it at all or dropping out of a long theory-heavy education. Unfortunately, the government parties seem to go the other way. The signals that come from the government indicate a desire for more uniformity in the requirements for admission, the content of the various training courses and the length of the training courses. I believe that this means that we are in danger of having more failures and more who find it difficult to enter the labour market. This is one of the challenges facing high school today. Michael Svensson and Ulrika Carlsson pointed out other challenges related to insecurity, defection, poor connection to the labour market and changes in programmes. At the moment, I believe that we should above all ensure that we have a school that is working also for those who come to the country and who have had a partially problematic youth school. Mr President, I would like to Upper secondary school shall prepare pupils for professional and higher education. I think that in the future, upper secondary school needs to be more personalised. It is better to succeed with a shorter program than to fail with a longer, theory-heavy program. In the context of a reform that makes a clearer distinction, I think it is essential to ensure that everyone has a new chance of training, training and changing courses later in life, that we have a compux that works and other educational opportunities that prevent one from falling into dead ends. At least let us focus on the idea that comprehensive school should deliver its own but that high school can be more diversified than it is today. It's better to succeed than to quit. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals' school policy programme includes some changes in upper secondary school. I know you're not supposed to deliver news in the speaker's chair if you want them to get a big spread, but I'm taking the chance anyway. It could be that more people want to know. It is crucial that we continue to expand apprenticeships in Sweden and that we ensure that there is a more visible form of programme that is linked to the labour market than it is today. We want to see more apprentices, more apprentices, more variants of apprenticeships and a greater link to the labour market. Industries should take greater responsibility than they do today. This should also be done for vocational training in the future. More vocational training needs to be relocated to companies and managed by the industries. You have to have an approved test showing that you are skilled in your profession. The higher education programmes will make you well prepared for higher education studies. Today, we see too many people who are not prepared for higher education studies even though they are attending higher education programmes. Admission requirements should not be lowered but rather increased and diversified. Mr President, I would like to Today's course-shaped school should be changed and become a subject high school instead and thus have subject grades. I therefore call for the inclusion of a subject grade in upper secondary school in reservation 10. I would like to see a test introduced. It could be a single substance sample. We have seen this in part in some of the national tests carried out in grade 3. It would be a reconciliation of what has been gained in the years of upper secondary school. It would be necessary to pass this test in order to obtain approval for the programme as a whole. It should of course be possible to repeat the test if you had a bad day or were poorly prepared at the time the test was carried out. I would like to see fewer secondary common subjects. It is reasonable that the aesthetic subjects are present in high school but that they should be optional on those programs that do not have an aesthetic orientation. I would like folk high schools, if they follow current curricula and curricula, to be given the right to run some upper secondary school programmes. Not least because of the great advantages folk high schools can have, as Ulrika Carlsson mentioned earlier, it would be an opportunity for more people to succeed in high school. In order to increase equivalence, improve quality and accessibility in the country, we should have a compuxpeng and a sfi-peng for those who later need to supplement their upper secondary education in order to move on to the labour market. Mr President, I would like to There is a wide range of things that we should change in upper secondary school to meet the great challenges we have. In the next six months, much of the debate on school policy will be about high school, and the Liberals will deliver further proposals to improve Swedish upper secondary school. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 10.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-919	Mr President, I would like to I have listened with great interest to the previous speaker. There are many interesting ideas and good suggestions. Nevertheless, I am so sad that I am in favour of the committee's proposal and rejection of all reservations. My motive for this, of course, is what the previous speaker e has mentioned: we have had a thorough high school inquiry that has submitted nearly a hundred proposals to the government. The referral period expired on 1 March. SKL got extended time and came in with his referral yesterday. 190 referrals have been received. Let us now analyse, discuss and prepare these proposals to improve upper secondary school. Swedish school needs well thought-out reforms – or perhaps reform care, where we refine what we have. It is important to listen to researchers, principals, school professions, social partners and others. It is also wise to wait for the School Commission's proposal, which will come in April, and see what we can get there. We also need to coordinate our high school discussions and proposals with the Ways Forward, the strategy for young people who are neither working nor studying. Some were on admission to higher education. There was such an investigation yesterday. Perhaps we also need to coordinate with the folk high schools, which several were concerned with, and the government's efforts on the right to komvux. Upper secondary school policy needs to be seen in a broader context, and that has been highlighted by several before me. Let me emphasise that it is important for the Social Democrats and the government to find long-term, stable agreements in the field of school where knowledge, equivalence and education are at the centre of focus. I look forward to future debates and proposals. Maybe they get a little harder than this; what do I know? I would also like to point out that the government is not just preparing and analysing. During the treatment of the Gymnasie inquiry, important steps are taken where the change is important. The Government's initiative on Collaboration for the best school is now being extended to upper secondary school. It is one way to strengthen schools with the toughest conditions, and more people will then be able to cope with upper secondary education. My fellow Members in this House know that I usually talk a lot about the upper secondary professional programmes. That's what I'm going to do today, too. The number of students has decreased, and several courses have been closed. This has affected industrial technology programmes in particular. Statistics from SCB show that Sweden will miss many upper secondary professionals if nothing changes. That's why we have to change. The vocational programmes are the basis for the skills supply of industry and welfare. We have started work to strengthen upper secondary school vocational programmes, including by developing professional colleges and introducing the year of vocational education and training. Let me say something about the year of vocational training. It is a unique investment in Swedish vocational training. The initiators Worldskills Sweden, LO, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Ministry of Education, led by the government, have decided to invest additional resources in prioritising and lifting the Swedish vocational education and training to meet the demand of the labour market. One way to do this is to increase the attractiveness of vocational education and training through a focus on various action programmes that communicate the picture of what modern vocational training actually means and contains. It is important for society but also, of course, for young people who are going to choose these courses. It's really important. Firstly, more pupils will choose vocational programmes as their upper secondary education. Secondly, Swedish vocational education and training must be world-class. The quality is different. There is agreement that sustainable quality-enhancing work is necessary. Cooperation and cooperation shall be encouraged in order to develop training courses and strengthen workplace training. Thirdly, professional programmes are to be considered as an opportunity-oriented training. One can very well bring in entrepreneurial learning. Many students and parents feel that professional programs are a secondary choice that closes the door rather than opens. There is great agreement that this attitude should change. This effort will continue over the next few years, and I believe that cooperation and cooperation with industry and the social partners are the way forward. By the way, do you know what happened today? Well, Sweden's most important national team, the professional national team, has had a reunion. We also go forward with the experimental activities with industry schools. This will make it possible for different sectors to provide skills in small professions. My colleague, Elisabet Knutsson, was actually going to talk about the introduction programmes. It is worth a debate and discussion of its own, but how we have it on our introduction programmes is also something that needs to be dealt with quickly. Finally, I would like to point out that upper secondary school as a whole has a broader mission than training for the labour market or for further education. In the 15th chapter of the school law. Section 2 specifies the purpose of the upper secondary school and states that the upper secondary school must provide a good basis for professional activities and further studies, as well as for personal development and active participation in community life. Now comes the other stickhorse: that is why we Social Democrats have long argued that the high school common subjects should be precisely common and give basic competence even in the professional programmes. The focus has not only been on the question of competence, but a modern working life and society also demands communicative skills in Swedish and English, but also mathematical ability; this is important. The fact that all pupils are given a broad common knowledge base underlines the broad remit of upper secondary school. I'll tell you one more thing. The dropout from high school is supposed to decrease. It's very important. More pupils will leave upper secondary school with full grades. We're going to have security and study in high school.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-942	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Caroline Helmersson Olsson, for your speech. I asked a few questions in my speech to which I did not really feel that I was being answered. That's why I thought I'd take advantage of the opportunity for a line. Caroline Helmersson Olsson spoke about knowledge, equivalence and education as important parts and mentioned a lot about vocational training and the year of vocational training. If you can see positive results of that it is very good. But the question I want to ask is still linked to upper secondary school. There has been a great deal of concern about professional programmes: trying to accommodate what you want to add to existing points. It is, in fact, a matter of several hundred points that disappear from professional courses. In this way, I do not see how the quality of professional programmes can be strengthened on the basis of the professional identity that is also needed in various ways. I'm a little surprised that it's only now that students on the professional programmes should be able to train their communicative skills, linked to the fact that you would get basic university qualifications. This is part of the courses that already exist in upper secondary school, for example in Swedish. My question then is: in what way does Caroline Helmersson Olsson and the government parties intend to strengthen the quality of professional programmes, if they are prepared to do so within existing points? Or has it actually been said that, in order to accommodate both aesthetic subjects and basic competences within 2 500 points, it is prepared to increase the number of points in order to strengthen just the quality and equivalence and not lose out on the quality of vocational training?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-947	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulrika Carlsson, for a very important question! After all, we have wrestled with this in the Gymnasie inquiry: how are we going to get everything that we need into the professional programmes to have just the quality? The unions and the companies say: You must not touch the professions! I cannot, of course, stand here and promise anything, because we have something that we call finance, with which we must discuss this issue. But I realize for myself that this is difficult. In the study there is the proposal on high school work – that you should not score it and in that way be able to get these things in. I think we need to take a good look at the referee and analyse this. I can't tell you here and now I promise you there'll be more points in high school. It needs to be analysed carefully, just as Ulrika Carlsson says.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-949	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. I think it is extremely important not to impose tariffs on the quality requirements for professional programmes. That was the ambition of implementing the professional programmes; it was seen that there were too many shortcomings in the training at the time. The second question I would like to ask is precisely about the seminar. Caroline Helmersson Olsson is one of those who work a lot with the evaluations, the research schools, which we evaluated in the committee, and also the need for lecturers in upper secondary school to strengthen quality. It is, I think, sad if you do not provide continued opportunities for both upper secondary school teachers and primary school teachers to train as senior lecturers. There should also be opportunities for career paths. The discussion at the seminar that we both attended was about how it might be in different ways that first teachers become more interesting to the schools. But there were principals who could really point to the profit by also having senior lecturers in the business and saw it as a very positive quality enhancement. Caroline Helmersson Olsson talked about the need for both knowledge and education as two very important parameters linked to education, and then my question is: In what way does Caroline Helmersson Olsson see that we can continue to develop these career paths in order to strengthen the quality and knowledge of the Swedish school?
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-953	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for that question, Ulrika Carlsson! We have a lot of seminars and things like this in Parliament. Last Wednesday morning we had one about how we strengthen the school professors, where Björn Åstrand was involved. He is a member of the School Commission and has also received his own assignment. He had very good thoughts about how we could do this. It was a shame that Ulrika Carlsson was not there, because there I think we could find each other. Björn Åstrand talked a lot about career paths and all the good things we actually do. Even the former bourgeois government did good things with the lecturer services; we think that is a good thing too. But he says that we lack systematics – getting this into a system. We need to find professional ways to go in a system. I am really looking forward to him coming up with his conclusions; then we can continue to discuss it.
i-2bc8704c4f3e8464-955	Mr President, I would like to As we all know, Sweden is a knowledge nation, and I mean high school is an important part of it. It is of high quality and has a wide variety of specialisations to provide the different knowledge we need in our society. Repetition is the mother of knowledge – you hear that quite often and in many different contexts. But I would say that reflection is what takes us as a society forward. As a human being, you should take the time to reflect on your day or situation or even on what you have historically experienced so that you can take a direction or a course forward. Reflection can lead to you changing your behavior: that you act differently the next time an event occurs. You learn something new by analyzing what you have just experienced. This is something that I think can also be applied to our dear school, especially the upper secondary school. I think there is a lack of reflection among us adults on upper secondary school and how we discuss with our young people their choice of upper secondary school and programmes. We adults have, in historical times, argued a lot for high school students to read a program that makes them study prepared, so that they can move on to college, even though we know that not all students fit into that template. Perhaps they would rather do something with both their hands and their heads, instead of the rest of us who are just trying to use their heads. And yes, the youths have listened to the advice we adults gave them. The number of pupils in some type of vocational programme education has decreased in favour of an increasing proportion of other programmes. If you take the time to look at the statistics on vocational programmes and look at the last five years, you can see that the trend continues. The statistics for the construction programme 2011 – 2012 show 7 666 first-hand applicants, which we can compare with today's 3 950. This means that it has fallen from 6.4% of first-hand applicants to national programmes to 3.5%. It is a halving of the number of first-hand applicants at a time when we need to build more housing, perhaps more than we have done in the last 30 – 40 years. If you make the same comparison with the electricity and energy programme, or for that matter the nature conservation programme, there will be similar results. As adults, we have to realise that everyone is different, and we have to take advantage of everyone's different interests and not try to control students' choice of high school programmes by dividing them into some kind of A and B teams. We need to ensure that we have enough skilled carpenters, plumbers and electricians in the future as well. We do this best by encouraging them to choose the program they want. Then I am convinced that we will have more students for the professional programmes. Vocational programmes must maintain a level that leads to work immediately after graduation. There must also be apprenticeship schemes, where training is more linked to business and learning during work. The time when we are trying to put young people in the same shape must be over. We must realise that we are all different and have the right to be handled on that basis. This right should also apply when it comes to choosing different types of schools, such as municipal and private. The Christian Democrats' starting point in school selection is that parents and students have a fundamental right to choose. A school system that allows freedom of choice and diversity can, under the right conditions, drive quality. There are also strong fair arguments for free school elections. It is much easier for economically weak families to choose a school than to buy a home in an area where there is a good school. The right to establish schools is also a prerequisite for free choice of schools. Without the right to establish schools, the free choice of school becomes just a chimare. This right should and should apply not least if you want to establish a secondary school with only professional programmes that can increase the attractiveness of those particular programmes. We have to realise that someone has to build all the homes we want or draw the electricity we need or make sure we have the water inside the homes that we want. What do I really want to say about this? Well, I think we should upgrade our professional skills, because otherwise society will face major concerns.
