i-0529bbf320eedea9-6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Markus Wiechel has asked me what considerations form the basis for Sweden's action so far in relation to Turkey's frequent violations of human rights and international law, whether I and the Government intend to raise Turkey's frequent violations of human rights and international law in the future and what the government might do in such cases, for example, in the UN Security Council. He has also asked what I and the government have done so far to prevent Turkish violations of international law, including human rights. I share the interpellete's great concern about the deteriorating situation in Turkey, not least with regard to mass redundancies and arrests and human rights violations. Free media, freedom of expression, political opposition and a well-functioning rule of law are prerequisites for a democratic society. We have said this to Turkish representatives in Stockholm and Ankara. Turkey is a strategically important partner, and the government believes that dialogue and cooperation in areas of common interest enhances our ability to make demands for reforms in terms of human rights and the rule of law. We also continue to support, within the framework of Sweden's bilateral reform support, efforts to increase the capacity of civil society, the media and other change actors. The government is also a driving force in lifting Turkey's human rights violations within the framework of the international forums that we consider most appropriate for these discussions and where results can be achieved. That is why the government is active mainly within the EU and the Council of Europe to seek to influence developments in Turkey in the long term. We draw attention to the situation of opposition politicians, journalists, academics and civil society actors and urge the EU Member States to continue to act together to improve respect for human rights and the rule of law in Turkey. The government thus welcomed the opportunity for EU foreign ministers to discuss developments in Turkey and the future relationship between the EU and Turkey shortly after the referendum. It also expressed clear expectations of the actions of the Turkish Government. The interpellant mentions Turkey's actions in Iraq and Syria. If Turkey is attacked from the territory of another country, Turkey may have the right to take limited and proportionate measures, in accordance with international law including the UN Charter. However, any use of international violence – including those permitted by international law – is regulated simultaneously by the obligations of states under international humanitarian law and human rights. During our time at the UN Security Council, Sweden will continue to work towards compliance with international humanitarian law and human rights and humanitarian access, as well as supporting initiatives and decisions that can contribute to the cessation of fighting in both Iraq and Syria. The political processes, which must include women, for long-term stability and democratic development must instead take on board. In the context of these discussions, Turkey's actions may continue to be dealt with. Sweden continues to closely monitor developments in Turkey, and the focus of our commitment is on strengthening respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Furthermore, we intend to push for continued attention to be paid to the situation in the EU and other relevant international fora.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-14	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that I am delighted with the Minister's expressed concern about the situation in Turkey and that she seems to have a genuine commitment to this. On the other hand, I am not at all satisfied with the response to the interpellation, which I find to be somewhat inconvenient to come from a minister who shares my concern about the situation in Turkey and about Turkey's repeated violation. Turkey, as we all know, is a special country that has long distinguished itself in the Middle East, not least to be relatively secular despite its geographical position, history, religion and so on. It is also a country whose relations have been important precisely because it has had a better relationship with the West. Turkey has set an example in many respects in its part of the world. However, in recent years there have been some changes which make it necessary to change the approach and view of Turkey, not least its government. First of all, today the country is governed by a ruthless authoritarian leader who has repeatedly demonstrated its support for old imperialist thinking. I think we are both concerned about this. We have seen this with the tolerance of extremely radical groups, not least in neighbouring countries. We see IS, we see Al-Nusra and other groups, not least in Syria, which Turkey has supported. We have seen how IS oil has been bought in Turkey and how warriors have been able to travel more or less freely between countries for a longer period of time. In short, we see an Islamic dictatorship which is a significant part of the Council of Europe. Turkey is a country that was present from the start of the Council of Europe, and I find this worrying. As I said, unfortunately, I do not think that much is being done on the Swedish side. It has been said that there is talk with Turkish representatives about the situation in the country, and I think that is a good thing. At the same time, however, there is little evidence of this in the international arena. Not so long ago, I and others in New York were on a trip to the UN. My view was confirmed; the discussion of what is happening in Turkey in the UN context is not raised at all. Instead, you focus on other things. I have noticed the same thing myself as part of the Swedish delegation to the Council of Europe. The issue of Turkey is something that is being swept under the carpet a little bit, even after the coup d'état and Turkey's abuse. It became clear then that the country's actions were almost defended in some respects. This is, of course, problematic. The fact that Sweden is not doing so much is also quite clear in the Minister's reply when she says a little sweeping about international humanitarian law and human rights: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to There is a lot I would like to raise in this debate, and I know that I will not be able to do everything. But as the Minister knows, I have been driving these issues both here in Parliament, where I have submitted a total of seven different written questions to the Minister – the first at the beginning of 2015 – and to the Council of Europe and other forums. I look forward to a further discussion with the Minister and perhaps a little clearer answers about what the government is actually doing.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-24	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate that there is a great deal of commitment on the part of Members of Parliament to developments in Turkey. I also believe that there is a broad consensus on how worrying the situation is. We have a significant bilateral relationship with Turkey for a long time, not least because we have been pushing the issue of EU proximity. Turkey is well aware of this, and it is also a strategic partner for the European Union. So our main foreign policy platform is EU cooperation, and that is also where much of the policy on Turkey is driven. Then, of course, it is also important to have Turkey's role as a very central player in a region that is becoming increasingly unstable and whose development also affects us greatly. We have already noted how developments have gone in a very negative direction in recent years. Unfortunately, after the coup attempt, this development strengthened. I, of course, share the view of the interpeller with regard to the situation of, for example, parts of the democratically elected opposition. This applies not least to the Kurdish-dominated party. Now many of their representatives have been imprisoned, such as Demirtaş and Yüksekda, for example. I can give you ten examples of what we do. I have not heard examples of what the interpellier thinks we could do more. Foreign policy, of course, is very much dependent on the statements it makes. You manifest clearly what you think, and you do so through statements. We have done so repeatedly. We have been very active in the Council for joint statements, for example at foreign ministers' meetings. We have worked to ensure that the Member States of the European Union comply with the principles of human rights and justice. We have also published an MR report on 135 countries, and we are one of the two countries in the world that do so and very clearly highlight the situation in Turkey in terms of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. In all the talks we have with Turkey's representatives, we have clarified Swedish positions in all categories. We have met at different levels throughout and made clear exactly what we think – it is also a way of exerting pressure. We have reform support that supports and helps, for example, civil society organisations, threatened journalists and anyone working in opposition. We have contributed with election observers. We have called Turkey's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, for example when the HDP leaders were arrested. We follow trials. We are working actively both in the UN and in the EU to ensure that this issue is constantly on the agenda. That's how you conduct foreign policy-- if now the interpellier doesn't think there would be some other methods that you could use. We could not be clearer about what we think, and we are pushing the issue and being active in all the discussions about Turkey. It will happen again as early as next week when the Foreign Minister's meeting takes place. This issue remains on the agenda. We really have nothing to be ashamed of, and there are more examples of what has been done to actually push and try to turn developments in the right direction in Turkey.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-32	Mr President, I would like to There are, indeed, a number of positive things that the government is doing in this respect. The minister mentioned some of them. What I miss is lifting this to the surface and actually raising the issue internationally to a greater extent. After the last trip to the United Nations in New York, it was quite clear to me that the issue of Turkey's violation of human rights almost does not exist. That discussion hardly exists there. Sure, there are many other countries where it is a worse situation and there are many other countries where it may be a similar situation, but Turkey is, after all, a country that is involved in the Council of Europe and, like Sweden, has been involved from the year it was formed. It is also a country that has fairly close relations with the whole of Europe and has even aspired to become part of the European Union. So these are a little different conditions. A comparative example can also be taken. It is about Turkey's violation of international law, as I highlighted in the interpellation, when Turkey has entered Cyprus in the past and in Iraq and Syria in recent times. As far as Iraq is concerned, this is particularly serious given that there is a democratically elected government which has opposed the Turkish troops who have entered there. In the interpellation response, the Minister mentioned that in some respects you have the right to enter a foreign country if you are to defend yourself. In this case, there is nothing they need to defend themselves against. They have entered on the grounds that they are attacking terrorists in the PKK, but that is not true; they have imperialist motives. It has emerged in various statements by the President of Turkey. Among other things, he has previously referred to both Aleppo in Syria and Mosul in Iraq as well as Turkish cities that should be inhabited by Sunni. It is a clear imperialist view that these are cities belonging to Turkey. We have seen the same thing in Syria, where Turkey has entered and attacked the main secular force against the ravages of the Islamic State. They've gone in and attacked another NATO allies. They have entered and destroyed the stability of northern Syria. With regard to Russia, which has also violated international law through the annexation of Crimea, it has been clear and has gone out and condemned this in harsh terms. However, as far as Turkey is concerned, it is relatively quiet, and that is what I find regrettable. I think that, in order to gain some kind of credibility, it is probably good if there is equal treatment of these two rogue states.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-38	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say to the interpeller that on this issue we must use all our political and diplomatic tools and be active on all the different international levels that we can access to ensure that we make our voice heard and act actively. In the United Nations, it comes up mainly with regard to Syria, because Turkey as such is not a country situation that the Security Council regularly follows. After all, the Security Council is bound by the situations that exist through UN resolutions and other things. In particular, Turkey has therefore been dealt with in the context of discussions on the situation in Syria, for example. However, I simply do not agree with the fact that the issue is being pushed away or not being discussed. I have also been able to describe here in Parliament on several occasions how we view the situation in Turkey. So this debate is very active, and I welcome that. Above all, we are acting through the EU, and we, from the government, have worked actively to also ensure that Turkey's EU perspective is preserved as far as possible. We believe that it has been and should be one of the most effective ways of affecting Turkey in the long term. That was what pushed reform efforts over a large number of years, and unfortunately we have now seen a change of direction in Turkey in the very wrong direction. But the Heads of State or Government of the European Union have and have Turkey on their agenda. I have discussed Turkey with the Foreign Ministers many times. It was also up at our meeting in April. So far, no Member State is arguing for the suspension of Turkey's EU negotiations. However, we know where the red lines are drawn, for example when imposing the death penalty. And we are all concerned about developments in democracy and the rule of law. At this point, we believe that it is Turkey that must define its relationship with the European Union and show, through action, that it is serious when it comes to European integration. We have an interest in cooperating on a number of issues, such as foreign and security policy and anti-terrorism cooperation. Turkey also has an important role to play in the fight against Daish. At the same time, it must not lead to using it to crush the Kurds and the Kurdish opposition. Our cooperation with Turkey on migration has also increased in recent years. It is important to get to those who smuggle refugees and to the asylum process and other things. Turkey has an extensive reception of refugees, more than 3 million refugees. Economic cooperation is also extensive. This means that, as I said, we must use all our political and diplomatic tools properly and on all these different platforms and in forums to which we have access. We must continue to insist that we want democratic development in Turkey and respect for human rights. We continue to use the ten examples that I listed on how we can pursue these issues. I certainly do not think that we are invisible or silent about the debate on developments in Turkey.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-48	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps Mrs Wallström herself thought that it sounds a little strange that no country has argued to suspend negotiations on Turkey's possible accession to the EU, even though they have announced the introduction of the death penalty. I can list a lot of numbers. After the coup attempt, more than 2,500 journalists have lost their jobs. 800 have lost state press cards, 169 media have been shut down and about half a million Kurds have had to leave their homes after quite brutal raids by the Turkish authorities. There are recurring examples of Turkey being as far away from the EU as possible. Nevertheless, the government has not pushed for, for example, the suspension of negotiations. It is quite a lot to ask to believe that Turkey should change its behaviour and suddenly become an EU country. After the coup attempt, it only took a few days or days to start mass arresting people. This testifies not least to a rather far-reaching registration of opinions. I myself have contact with several exile Turks who have told me that they had nothing to do with the coup attempt but that they have fled because of fear of the regime. With regard to the situation of the Kurds, does the government intend to take steps to strengthen in some way the role of the Kurds in Turkey but also in Syria, for example?
i-0529bbf320eedea9-52	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the description of what is problematic and of the very serious and worrying developments in the wrong direction in terms of respect for human rights. I don't have any other vision. So far, however, it has been the European approach that has given us the framework, the list of requirements and the conditions. It has made it possible for us to push ahead and say that if you want to go in this direction, this must be fulfilled. Then you must stop this and this. You must make these reforms in order to move forward. It also pushed the trend in the right direction for a number of years, until the beginning of the 21st century. It is also important for the opposition. Remember that! What hope should we give the opposition? So far, there is an established process. So far there are joint and regular meetings with Turkey. There we in Europe can be clear. So are we. Of course, we invite the Minister for Foreign Affairs or other representatives and we say clearly that you know that if you go ahead with this and with the introduction of the death penalty, you have passed a red line which means that all of this must be stopped. We believe that the EU negotiations have been and should be an effective political, diplomatic tool. We support the Kurds and have insisted in our statements that a peace process needs to take place instead. You need a development that includes the Kurds. As regards, for example, the fight against Daish in Iraq, it is actually peshmerga that we have given above all military support, as Markus Wiechel certainly knows. This issue will continue to be high on the agenda.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Désirée Pethrus and Ulla Andersson have asked me whether I believe Ethiopia is living up to its commitments on the basis of its ratifications of international conventions on civil and political rights and against corruption. They have asked how Sweden has used its position in the UN Security Council to raise the issue of Ethiopia's lack of justice system. They have also asked if I intend to visit Addis Abeba to comment on the case of Swedish citizen Fikru Marus and visit Maru in prison. Ulla Andersson also wonders what I am doing to get Fikru Maru out of captivity as soon as possible. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. Sweden has worked intensively on his case both during the past and during the current legal proceedings against Fikru Maru. The charges against him are serious, and the circumstances surrounding the prosecution raise many questions. Our message to Ethiopian representatives is clear: we expect legal certainty and swift management of the continuing legal process, not least in the light of Fikru Marus' fragile health. We will continue our work as long as necessary. In individual cases, we always work on the basis of the consular mission, regardless of what public attention the case receives. On the other hand, we do not intervene in the legal proceedings of other countries. In the case referred to by Mrs Pethrus, the then government particularly emphasised its view of freedom of the press and of expression as a fundamental democratic value. The visit at ministerial level took place after a judgment had been handed down and gained legal force and the two Swedish citizens had begun the service of their sentences. In the present case, legal proceedings are still ongoing. As long as it goes on, we continue to monitor the process on the ground through our embassy and otherwise act in the way we judge the case to be best served. We continue to actively address the matter with our Ethiopian counterparts at all levels, both locally in Addis Abeba as well as in Stockholm and elsewhere. The government, sometimes I myself, has repeatedly raised the case with our counterparts. Ethiopia has ratified seven out of nine main human rights conventions, and in many parts of the world the challenge is to translate the commitments into action. Ethiopia was last reviewed in 2014 in the UN Universal Review Mechanism, UPR. Sweden then recommended that Ethiopia take measures to ensure full association and meeting rights, remove vague provisions in the anti-terrorist proclamation that can be used to criminalise the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and association, and ensure that the freedom of expression of civil society, opposition politicians or independent media is not restricted. These are recommendations that Sweden constantly raises with Ethiopian representatives when the opportunity arises. Mrs Pethrus also mentions aid to Ethiopia. The Swedish development cooperation is long-term and is aimed at the people of Ethiopia. There is no budget support and the strategy contains clear and strong limitations on cooperation with the state, in particular the central government apparatus. Our support mainly goes to multilateral actors and civil society actors, and human rights and democracy are an important focus of the strategy. It is the Government's ambition and hope that this will help to strengthen people's opportunities in Ethiopia to enjoy their civil liberties.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-66	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. This is an issue that has been involving me and several for quite a long time. Fikru Maru has been imprisoned in Ethiopia for over four years – a very long time. Sweden has a long and historical relationship with Ethiopia. It was one of our first aid countries in the 1950s. Despite Fikru Maru's Maru, aid to Ethiopia doubled last year. It increased from about 100 million a year to 200 million a year. In a new country strategy, the government has stressed the importance of strengthening human rights in Ethiopia. That is good because, unfortunately, we see major shortcomings there. At the same time, the Swedish cardiologist Fikru Maru, among other things with Swedish aid, has started Ethiopia's first heart hospital in Addis Abeba. He's in prison for what I and his lawyer think is pretty loose ground. The Government uses the term a serious plea in law. It is difficult to assess whether the Government has already taken a position on the grounds for the prosecution. After many years in prison, Fikru Maru was finally acquitted of the charges of bribery. Instead, he received new charges of terrorism against him. While in prison, he had started terrorist activities, it was claimed. There were a couple of bags of medical equipment that were considered not to have been properly cleared. Now Fikru Mari is accused of terrorist crimes planned in prison. It sort of never ends the various charges that can be made in the Fikru Maru case. I have great respect for the fact that this is a consular case. It is clear that we cannot look between our fingers when Swedes commit crimes in other countries and that there must be a judicial system in place. But I think that the government and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs sometimes miss the goal when it comes to more political processes where Swedes have been imprisoned. In this case, it was, of course, internal political and internal justice system in Ethiopia that he was imprisoned. They wanted to get to another minister. I would like to ask the Minister: is there not a difference between a common consular case and a case where the person has been imprisoned on political grounds? Is it not necessary to act in a completely different way? As I mentioned in my interpellation, I think that the previous government in the case of Martin Schibbye and Johan Persson acted in a completely different way. Prime Minister Reinfeldt met the Ethiopian Prime Minister, and Carl Bildt visited the Swedes in prison. That is why I have once again raised the question: is there no possibility for any of the ministers to visit Fikru Maru in prison? Why are we so reluctant on this issue? Let's see a visit! The Prime Minister has once said that Ethiopia is like his second home. Surely it should be possible to show that we have raised the Fikru Maru case through a visit to the prison.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-77	Mr President, the Council of Ministers. When we wake up in the morning, we can open the door and go outside and feel raindrops on our noses or the sun caressing our cheeks. We can feel the wind blowing in our hair. We can smell it. We know that the day can mean meeting friends. If you have a job, you can go there. We can meet children and grandchildren. Fikru Maru has now been denied that for over four years. Fikru Maru has been imprisoned for four years and has been a pawn in a political game. That's what it's actually about. There are many of us who have engaged in the case of Fikru Marus. I myself am a Member of Parliament from the county where he lives. He lives in Hudiksvall, where he is a cardiologist. There are many local politicians across all party boundaries who have become involved: MPs, MEPs, journalists, leaders and many more. When human rights and freedoms are violated, we have to say no. When Fikru from Hudiksvall becomes a pawn in a political game in a rule-of-law state with an authoritarian regime and gets hurt, then we have to say no. We've written letters to the embassy. We have asked the Minister what she intends to do. We have held seminars and put pressure on them. There have been meetings and articles published. We've been trying to do what we can. What Mr Maru is subjected to in prison by the regime in Ethiopia is simply inhumane. Being imprisoned for four years, being sentenced and soon thereafter being released shows that he has been sitting there innocently sentenced for four years — four years of a person's life. During that time he too has become seriously ill. The act of terror that he was accused of happened when he himself lay and fought for his life in the hospital with a pulmonary collapse. The regime claims that the lung should have collapsed because he forgave himself on chocolate, that he staged it h ela. It is medically impossible; everyone who knows anything about medicine knows that. But that's the motive. I know that the EU has urged Ethiopia to respect human rights. It's important and good, but it hasn't changed anything. I know that Amnesty has now become involved in Fikru's case, and that is also very good. I know that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the ambassador on the ground have made efforts that have been appreciated by the family, not least when all Nordic ambassadors were present during the trial. Yet we stand here today – four years of a person's life. Fikru pays a very high price. That is why I have asked the questions: What do we do now? Why can't the Minister or even the Prime Minister visit Fikru Maru in prison? I think it would be rather uncomfortable for the regime to have a visit to a prison by a minister. That would get attention. Perhaps that way we could have a better dialogue with the regime and take steps forward in this process. In these four years, progress has not been made. Rather, you only find new reasons to keep Fikru Maru imprisoned. It was in this context that I asked my questions. Thank you for your answer. You are trying in different ways to act within the framework that you have set out, but I think we need to take further steps. Since it is a political game, politics must probably act more visiblely and more clearly. I also hope that the Foreign Minister will do so, and I will come back to that in my next speech.
i-2Ui6gbPstCYZeXUjeY5h8f	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, the interpellants! We share this frustration. I have full sympathy for that take. I could give you the exact same picture. What rests on us is to ensure that we make the best use of all our diplomatic tools. After all, this was also the challenge of the previous government, and it has continued for us as well. The frustration is that it takes so long. Unfortunately, not all the efforts we have made have led us to see a change or that Fikru Maru has been able to come back to Sweden. We always do what we judge best in the consular case and what can best contribute to a solution. Nor do we want to put even greater pressure or problems on the person. You should know that we are really using all the diplomatic tools that we have at our disposal. For a certain period of time, I believe that our ambassador in Addis Abeba was working around the clock on this issue. We also value the contact we have with the family of Fikru Marus. It's been very important. We are constantly in contact at all political levels, and we are making sure to raise the issue in every way. The Ethiopian ambassador has been called on various occasions. This is something we carry with us. We have certainly not reduced our efforts. I think the difference between earlier and visiting has become when a judgment has fallen. The government cannot and must not take a stand on the debt issue. In our contacts with Ethiopian representatives, we are very clear that we expect legal certainty and swift management of the continuing legal process. It is now up to Ethiopian authorities to lead this in evidence. What I meant was "serious" is that the charges are very serious. The message is clear. We assume that the continued legal process will be handled legally and promptly and that Fikru Marus's needs will also be met. We will continue our work as long as it is necessary and in the way we judge it to be most beneficial. We also know, of course, that the Ethiopian is very sensitive when someone tries to intervene in the country's legal processes – just as we would be. Nor do we want another country to intervene in our legal proceedings. It is therefore important to assess what is appropriate to do, so that we do not complicate or make it even more difficult for Fikru Maru in these circumstances. We are constantly considering what diplomatic tools we can use. It is the Ethiopian authorities who are responsible for how this judicial process will continue to be handled. They are the ones who should take responsibility for the humanitarian treatment of Fikru Maru. We will continue to insist on this. At the beginning of May, the embassy met Fikru Maru. We hope to make the next visit shortly. We are therefore following this very closely.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. However, I think that both I and Ulla Andersson are quite worried about how Fikru Maru is going. I think that during the time when I have been in Parliament and there have been cases like this have been able to teach me that it is time that is the important thing. If nothing happens during the first month, all doors risk being locked. I would like the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to reflect on the whole work on consular cases and on separating political cases. The Christian Democrats have a Member who has been imprisoned in Cuba. I saw how it all happened. Those pucks weren't too fast. In that case, however, it went well. But it could have gone very badly, which it did for another person who was in the same situation. I would also like to call on the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to really work with the time perspective. This was something that everyone who was committed to Martin Schibbye and Johan Persson came up with. Too long was waited before any efforts were made, so it took so long. Fikru Maru, a Swedish heart doctor, has been imprisoned in an Ethiopian prison for four years. You can imagine what it would be like. We know what the situation is and that he is seriously ill in a prison with rats, poor hygiene, lack of food and so on. A Swedish citizen's life is at stake. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs must find ways to pursue the issue politically. So I again ask the question: What can the government do further to perhaps visit the prison? I think we could do that. He's been cleared of the first charges. It shows that the grounds for the prosecution are very loose. The Minister also raised the aid. No, we may not think that aid should be withdrawn absolutely, but we cannot have unconditional aid. If aid is to be given every year to strengthen human rights, can the Minister guarantee that this is what we can see? Is the situation in Ethiopia improved by the $200 million of taxpayers' money? Can the Minister say here that we see that things are moving in the right direction? I'm not so sure she can. Aid is therefore one thing. Another point raised by the Minister is that Ethiopia has ratified seven out of nine main conventions. She admits that it is a problem when it is not translated into action. She also says that Sweden is critical of Ethiopia's provisions in the anti-terrorist proclamation being too vague. This in itself should make the Foreign Minister have clear points to raise with the Ethiopian Government: what do the accusations against Fikru Maru stand for? How could he in prison have started a terrorist act with a riot when he wasn't even there? It is claimed that he has eaten too much chocolate, had a pulmonary collapse of it and was therefore not in prison just when the riot occurred. What kind of charges do we see? I call for the Foreign Minister to act more forcefully than has been done and what we can see today. I think we all want him to be free.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-103	Mr President, I would like to You can safely say that you feel quite powerless when cases like these arise. If we feel powerless, we can perhaps understand how Fikru Maru feels when he is imprisoned with diabetes and severely impaired health, and even the ambassador is denied access to see him. The whole legal process that has been, I would almost call a parody. It is not worth being called a legal process. That is precisely why I find it difficult to reconcile the whole argument. Surely the government cannot believe that it trusts this legal system, in which he is accused of bribery? He is there with aid money from Sweden to build a hospital. He's being accused of bribery so you can get to a government minister. He has been imprisoned for four years and is sentenced, and after a month they say that they are withdrawing it instead to accuse him of something new, namely acts of terror. This happens while he's in the hospital because of pulmonary collapse. From the Ethiopian justice system it is claimed that he has eaten chocolate and that he could therefore be outside the prison when the terrorist crime took place. It goes without saying that the grounds for the accusations do not hold true. The family and the group behind Fikru, who also holds the dialogue with the family and with Fikru, want the Swedish government to move forward the positions. They feel that it is no longer a legal process, but a political one. Therefore, they want and expect the government to change its strategy somewhat to see if it can produce results. I would like to hear how the Foreign Minister sees Fikru sitting there for four years, innocently accused and convicted, and that a new legal process has now been initiated on loose grounds. How does the Minister view the demand to change strategy to see if it will have a better effect? I think it would have an effect on the regime, just like Désirée Pethrus, if a minister comes to the prison to hear how he is, how he is, how he views the situation and what he wishes the government to do. It could have a different outcome. I'm not a specialist in this, but I want something done and the positions moved forward. I think and I want Fikru Maru to come home to Hudiksvall and meet his family and friends and go to his job at the hospital. There are very many of us who want this. It is with this appeal that I raise in the speaker's chair. I hope for success that will bring Fikru home.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-110	Mr President, I would like to We have no wish but for Fikru Maru to be able to get out of prison. We share this frustration and desire. I do not accept allegations that it would be heartless or that we would not do everything we can at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. We have excellent consular activities. We have people who all have a big heart and who go to work every day with the intention of finding the effective ways forward in matters that have often been going on and existed for a long time. Unfortunately, when we took office in this government, Fikru Maru was already imprisoned. A long time had already passed. It's not as simple as just going in and doing something, uncertain what, and suddenly solving the situation. Many of the consular cases we have today are very complex. Political contacts are much more difficult. It is much more complex than it may have ever been before. I do not know any case where it can be said that it has absolutely nothing to do with politics. It is politics, and it is political contacts. I can tell you what we do every day. What plagues me most as a foreign minister is that I know that there are still Swedish citizens around the world who have been imprisoned or hostages for several years. Together with our very fine consular unit, I'm doing everything I can to free them. We test all the time: Does this work? Can we do more pressure politically? Can we make new contacts? That is why we do not exclude anything, but we also weigh it against the fact that we sometimes risk putting this person in even greater trials and that it is therefore not a safe way forward. I don't rule out any visitors. I am not ruling out any of the political and diplomatic tools we have at our disposal. But we're going to choose what we understand can actually help, so that you don't just get even sulking on the opposite side and say: Well, now they're going to intervene in our legal process too – then we'll come up with another obstacle! As I said, I am not ruling out anything, but we will always do what we think is best for the person who is exposed and who, in this case, is in prison. Then I am asked whether we should use aid as a means of exerting pressure. But the Swedish development cooperation is long-term and is aimed at the people of Ethiopia. This is not a question of budget support. This strategy contains clear and strong limitations on cooperation with the state, in particular the central state apparatus. Instead, our support goes to multilateral actors and civil society actors. That is the way we channel our support. It would be wrong to punish the people of Ethiopia in important areas by cutting back on our support for democracy and human rights and our attempts to strengthen the judiciary in various ways. I don't take it personally when it sounds like we're not fully involved. We are, and we share the frustration. We're doing the same analysis as the interpellants. Now it is about hopefully being able to continue channeling the fine commitment that exists, and of course we use our embassy for that work.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-117	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that the Foreign Minister is committed to Mr Maru and would like to see Mr Maru free. There is no doubt about it. But the question is, how do we go about it so that something really happens after this many years? I understand that the family – and also Fikru Maru himself, I think – would welcome such a visit and see it as very important. They themselves have said that they are prepared to take that risk. I understand that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Consular Service are taking a balance, but we may still have to listen to the people involved. The aid should be long-term, says the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yes, we have had long-term aid since the 1950s, so it is very long-term. Then the question is why there are still so great human rights gaps in Ethiopia. As the Prime Minister usually says, it is not okay that there are still such major shortcomings in the judicial system. My final questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs are: how can the Minister for Foreign Affairs further contribute to changing the system? It seems that aid has not done so in all this time. Can you go through others to try to strengthen the justice system? I wrote in my interpellation about the UN Security Council. Is it possible to influence in any other way? Other countries, such as the EU, could, alongside Sweden, create more pressure on this issue to change the system that holds Fikru Maru prisoner. I thank you for a good debate and for the commitment shown by the Foreign Minister. I hope, of course, that Ethiopia will change its attitude.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-121	Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that those who work on the Fikru Maru case have a big heart and a fight. Those who work at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are also very professional. That's not what this is about. But it's been four years, and what else can we do? Do we need to change our strategy? That is what I want to highlight. I understand that it is very difficult to deal with another country's legal process. That's exactly what the Secretary of State says. Nor would we want other countries to enter into our legal proceedings. But trusting the justice system in Ethiopia, I think, is very difficult. I would think that few in Ethiopia and outside Ethiopia do so, when it is so clear that it is a political process. Thank you for the fact that the Foreign Minister is still opening up to look at what more can be done to assist Mr Maru and his family in the difficult situation they are in and in what ways. I think it is important in this debate that this opening exists. I think there are many of us who want to see some kind of forward-looking position if that is possible, and I think it does. I also hope that new contacts will be made with the family to hear how they assess the situation. Maybe it's already planned. I think that would be very reasonable. There is clearly a need for continued pressure, but also for moves in the strategy to get the process forward, so that Fikru can finally come home to Hudiksvall and his family. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-125	Mr President, I would like to The next trial is on August 7th. Of course, we will continue to be in contact with the family of Fikru Marus. It is incredibly important, and it is always part of the way we deal with consular cases. Fikru Maru is now represented locally by three lawyers to bring his legal action. As you know, we have raised this case at all levels, including ministerial level, in Stockholm, Addis and elsewhere. We have repeatedly called the Ambassador of Ethiopia. The message is the same. We insist that the judicial process should be legally secure, that this should be dealt with urgently and that the humanitarian needs of Fikru Marus be taken into account. It is something that has been part of the dialogue that we are conducting with Ethiopia. We have pointed out the unreasonable statements that have been made about his health and all that. Like I said, I mean we don't have other tools. We can't go in with an army in Ethiopia. Nor can we say that we are removing all aid that goes to people who need it very well and who go through UN agencies and so on. We must continue to make full use of the political and diplomatic tools. Then we must have the whole toolbox and not rule anything out. But we must do so in such a way that we maintain international principles for our relations with each other in the future. We must show that we have a heart and that we have the full same commitment to Fikru Marus's case as we have had so far. We will continue to work actively. Thank you for the debate and the commitment. I also say that to everyone in Hudiksvall and everywhere in the world.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-130	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether I intend to introduce a fast track for people seeking asylum from safe countries, whether I share the police's description of problems in an article to which he refers, and what measures I and the government will take regarding the problems described. In his question, Mikael Oscarsson refers to the increasing problem of foreign theft leagues, and it states that many of the criminals seek asylum in Sweden under false identity. With regard to the issue of fast track for asylum seekers from a safe country, there is the possibility for the Migration Agency to prioritise applications that are deemed to be manifestly unfounded. Rejection decisions in these cases can be enforced before they gain legal force. The average processing time for manifestly unfounded applications was approximately 31 days in January to May this year. In the regulation letter for 2016, the Government commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to shorten the processing times for asylum applications. In response to the assignment, the Migration Board made changes to the protection process in 2016. This means that the cases received are sorted according to the direction of the case in order to make the handling more efficient. For example, the Migration Agency sortes out cases from countries with a high rejection rate and where it is possible to work for applicants to be able to return to their home country quickly. These cases should always be given priority. The new process will be fully completed in 2017. The European Commission has also presented in 2015 a proposal for a common EU list of countries that are deemed safe countries of origin and whose citizens can be dealt with in accelerated procedures. Sweden has welcomed the proposal and the negotiations on it are ongoing. With regard to the second part of the issue of international crime networks that come to Sweden to commit various types of theft crimes, it is a crime that has been established in Sweden for many years. Action against this crime is an important and strategic area of development in the Police Authority's criminal investigation activities. For example, in 2016, the Police Authority introduced a national model for crime coordination, which is deemed to have increased the police's ability to identify and intervene against mobile organised crime moving across large geographical areas. The area of crime prevention is, of course, also important. In the budget proposal for 2017, SEK 25 million was allocated annually to establish regional crime prevention coordinators at the county administrative boards. The mission includes contributing to improved collaboration and exchange of experience between stakeholders. The county administrative coordinators can play an important role in cross-municipal actions, for example in the case of various regional crime phenomena such as theft leagues. These are, of course, areas that the government is following very closely.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-138	Mr President, I would like to Tac k for the answer, Minister of Justice! The background to my question is that, unfortunately, this is a growing problem. The National Operations Department, NOA, issued a report in 2016. It shows that it may be the case that foreign leagues account for up to 50 percent of residential break-ins in Sweden. Based on five years of information collection, the report addresses crime networks from Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Georgia. Stockholm is affected, Malmö is affected, the countryside is affected and Uppsala is affected. UNT has shown, among other things, that these professional leagues go on up to ten villas in one sweep one morning. It is a vanguard that checks out, and then you come in and then you can clear up to ten villas in one sweep. It's very profitable. I spoke to one of the reconnaissance leaders yesterday at the NOA intelligence unit, who told me that they are making EUR 300 a day. It's almost $5,000 in one day. It's very profitable. Where's the goods going? According to the report, a great deal is going to Georgia in the southern Caucasus. In one case, 60 tonnes of stolen goods worth nearly 100 million were sent from Sweden to Georgia. The police say that many criminals from Georgia seek asylum in Sweden under false identity. They may be here legally for some time while their asylum case is being investigated, but no one knows who they really are. This is one of the seeds of the poodle. Is it reasonable to ask for asylum on Friday and start full-scale crime on Monday, and it will be like a Teflon boiler? It doesn't make any sense. If you commit crimes, you're not serious. Then you do not have in Sweden to do and will be expelled. It should then at least be a fast track. It should be a fast track from the start. We know that 99%, perhaps even 99.5%, from Georgia, for example, is being expelled. It is unreasonable, then, for us to give them the opportunity to continue this unhinderedly. It creates a terrible insecurity around the country. Now it's getting even tougher. On 28 March 2017, the visa requirement for persons from Georgia ceased. It is probably something that makes it even easier to commit this type of crime. Even if it is visa-free, you should be expelled if you are caught with this kind of crime. Even if you have a tourist visa or similar, it is not serious if you are taken for such serious crime. This is something that also drives other types of crime, human trafficking and the like. The Minister says in his reply that the Migration Agency can give priority to applications that are deemed unfounded. However, this does not happen at all to the extent that would be necessary. My question is: What do the Minister and the Government do to make sure that it becomes less attractive for these theft leagues to act in Sweden? Right now, it's way too simple. Where does the government make it less attractive to work in Sweden?
i-0529bbf320eedea9-145	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson raises a very important issue. I am sure we can do more than we do today. In the days when I was preparing for this debate, I have had reason to look at what we are doing and what methods we could develop here. First of all, it is right that a large proportion of burglaries are carried out by foreign theft leagues. Mikael Oscarsson mentions 50 percent. I believe that the assessment is 30 – 50% of the housing break-ins. With regard to the countries concerned, it is above all countries such as Lithuania, Poland and Romania. There are also Bulgaria, Estonia and Latvia. In those countries they are EU citizens. They are not asylum seekers in that part. I would like to point out the problem that they can use the ordinary freedom of movement within the EU to steal. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. We need to develop police methods. I visited the police in Östersund only a few months ago. They could testify to how with the new police organization they have been able to follow and map this type of theft leagues much better now than they could before with the old police organization, and then it is about northern Sweden. That is what I am talking about in my reply on police coordination of crime. There is, of course, even more to be done there. But I still think the police take it very seriously. In general, the number of b urban offences has not increased in recent years. If we go back about 15 years, it is about 30 000 residential break-ins per year, 40 000 if we also include free-time residences. Of course it's a big problem. We must try to do more to develop police work in such a way that we can combat this type of crime. Most of the foreign theft leagues are therefore not asylum seekers, but they operate from countries that are members of the EU – but also, as Mikael Oscarsson points out, from Georgia. There is evidence that there are those who abuse the asylum system in this way. Then I shall say that the number of asylum seekers from Georgia has decreased in recent years. We had a peak in 2014– 2015 with 800 – 900 asylum seekers per year. In 2016 it was over 700, so we have seen a decrease. Nor is it the way Mikael Oscarsson fathered after the refusal of the visa requirement has led to an increase in the number of asylum seekers. In fact, since 28 March this year, the number of asylum seekers from Georgia has decreased further. I think it was 40 in April and 50 in May. So we do not see the development that Mikael Oscarsson fears. However, although we do not see these developments, it is, of course, unacceptable if people use the asylum system as described. Then, as part of our work, we must continue to speed up the processing times. We have had long processing times for a couple of years as a result of the large influx of refugees in 2015. Now the processing times are falling. We will be back in the next year on normal processing times of an average of three to four months. The length of proceedings is also reduced for Georgian cases. From 2016 to 2017, the processing time for Georgian cases has decreased by 30 per cent. Some of the cases are dealt with in the fast track within the clearly unfounded cases. There's the processing time, as I said, 31 days. In conclusion, we must continue to develop police work, try to curb the abuse of the asylum system and push back processing times. I believe that these are important measures to overcome this.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-156	Mr President, I would like to In my hand, I am holding a report from the National Operations Department from the end of last year. It states that this is connected – the extensive theft is linked to the creation of a firewall. This is a major crime involving the use of car targets with coordination numbers. The perpetrators behind the goaltenders represent an important capacity for organised theft and smuggling activities. A political decision is needed here. It shall not be permitted to own more than one vehicle without a special authorisation if one has a coordination number. The coordination number, Mr President, is a special personal identity number if you are here for a while. It now turns out that it is owned an unholy amount of cars. There are 512 coordination numbers that have been looked at which a total of 28 897 vehicles are owned. To illustrate: On Thursday a week ago, the Uppsala police stopped a vehicle. It was a Golf, and it turned out that the Golf owner had 9 133 000 in unpaid p-notes. There are other examples of this. A combination of car goalkeepers and coordination numbers is used. We need to get to this, so the question is, is the government going to do something? Is it reasonable that with a coordination number you can own more than one car? Is it reasonable that there are now many cases where you own 1 000, 2 000, 2 500, 3 000 cars? This is used directly in combination, because when you get caught, the owner of the car does not exist. It turns out that these countries have coal on their vehicle owners, but in Sweden the responsible authority does not do any background check at all but happily registers these. Another point concerns border control. When I talk to the police, they say there is no border control to talk about. It's a huge problem. We have people who come with the ferry from Riga and from Finland. Of course, we should do border control and look for it. Look! Here are 37 that come to Sweden for the 32nd time. They've been convicted, but they're coming back again. It is embarrassing that Sweden does not look into this better. One more thing: You can use a special technology, ANPR, which is about putting cameras on police cars and at border controls and photographing registration plates. This uses Norway, Denmark, Finland and Holland. This means that if a theft gang that is up in Bodö and has a campaign there comes past Sweden, we know that they are on their way into Sweden. It is crazy that Sweden does not use the technology that exists. This is a typical matter that needs to be resolved politically. The ANPR systems could be on police cars and pick up these cars. We could stop a lot of this crime. What does the government think about this system?
i-0529bbf320eedea9-165	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson's interpellation was about housing breaches and possible connections that could exist to Georgia. I thought I replied to it – that it is about continuing to pressure the processing times so that those who do not have asylum reasons leave Sweden. It is clear that if you commit crimes in Sweden you should not remain in Sweden. Then, of course, you should leave our country. There can never be any room for other interpretations. I said that the processing times for Georgian cases have decreased by 30%. Some of the Georgian cases count as manifestly unfounded, and there we have as short a processing period as 30 days. I would also like to point out an opportunity that might be useful to know. In fact, we have the opportunity to put people in custody. Individuals who engage in criminal activities in Sweden and have very little opportunity to obtain asylum can actually put in custody during the waiting period. It also happens, but you might want to make further use of that possibility. We all have an interest in trying to limit and reduce the potential for abuse of the asylum system. Mikael Oscarsson is now addressing the issue of car registration. I read the papers, too. I actually read UNT this morning and understood that Mikael Oscarsson would raise this issue. Now this is not really a question of justice but a matter of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. How do we ensure that we limit the possibilities of how many cars can stand on one and the same person, and how do we look at whether the coordination numbers are used in this way? I was in contact with the Ministry of Enterprise this morning to see what process is being done there. There is now work being done to look at the possibilities of making such restrictions. I think we should take an even broader approach. We should, I think, go through the whole phenomenon of foreign theft leagues and see if there are any further things we can do. Mikael Oscarsson talks about border controls. As long as there is freedom of movement for EU citizens. As far as Georgian citizens are concerned, even if the visa requirement no longer exists, you will not enter the EU area unless you have a passport with biometric data, i.e. fingerprints and such. So we should not create the image that it is free for Georgian citizens. It's not like that. But I think we would actually have to take a broader grasp of the progress of foreign theft leagues in Sweden and turn all the stones around. How do you use the possibilities when it comes to, for example, car registration? How do the police work to follow these gangs? Could it be easier-- can we find ways to access this business more easily? It is a major problem in many parts of the country. These gangs also often move across fairly large geographical areas. In conclusion, I think that Mikael Oscarsson is into something that I hope we can work together with to develop methods for getting better.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-174	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer and for your recognition that this is an important thing! I think it is important to see that this is connected, and it is important that we reduce the attractiveness of acting in Sweden. We now see in the police report that we have a system that has created opportunities for these criminal networks to have a firewall and that this is linked to housing breaches and campaigns where a person goes ahead and looks out suitable places to go. You can handle ten burglaries in one morning and earn 300 euros, that is, 3,000 kroner, in one day. Then they use these cars and the temporary coordination numbers; they own up to 2,000 - 3,000 cars. The danger is that a family may one day be hit by a car like this. What happens then? In Malmö it turns out that every tenth car is owned by this type of people, who may not even exist in reality. Then the government must act. As I have said, UNT has had a series; today, the articles have been in vain about car goalkeepers and fraud has been increasing for years, but it is not stopped. It is precisely about this type of crime, which unfortunately is not stopped but is just continuing. This requires the government to act, give permission for cameras and instruct the responsible authorities to check more and do background checks so that we can prevent this activity from growing and spreading in Sweden and create insecurity.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-180	Mr President, I would like to I think there is a great deal that can be done to develop the methods. Let us look at them, but let me just say that we have already done some, for example in the case of car goalkeepers. A few years ago, we extended the possibility of seizing cars on which there are large debts. This has had a very good effect in many places. They work more systematically with this in Malmö, as Mikael Oscarsson mentioned. But there is also something called the Järva model, which uses it to remove such cars from the streets or from parking houses where they are abandoned. This has sometimes been in connection with the car fires we have seen, which can sometimes be pure insurance fraud. So we have developed the possibility of seizing cars where there are links to these large debts. I'm sure there's more we can do there. As I said, we are happy to have a new dialogue with the Ministry of Industry about the possibilities to limit how many cars you can have registered in different contexts. However, as regards the link with the asylum system, I would like to point out that it is a question of working on the processing times and continuing to shorten them. We must also make use of the opportunity available to put criminal individuals in custody during the time they are waiting for information. In addition, as I said, we must continue to develop police work. Police cooperation in the country is important – we have improved at that – but also cooperation with other countries. We have good cooperation with the other EU countries, but with a country such as Georgia, which is outside the EU, there is certainly much to do in terms of intelligence. With regard to the cameras, which were last mentioned, I received this morning an investigation in which we are proposed to extend the possibility of using cameras for monitoring particularly crime-prone locations, for example. Thank you for a good debate! I'm sure we can move on with this.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-188	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to reduce the economic decline of individual soldiers in refresher training with the support of total defence duty. Allan Widman has also asked me what measures I am prepared to take to safeguard the right of future military personnel to influence. Both exchanges concern the field of human resources and are therefore answered in a context. On 11 December 2014, the Government decided to grant the Swedish Armed Forces the right to call in war-placed personnel for refresher training with the support of the Total Defence Obligations Act. The background to the decision is the uncertainty surrounding the world and the need to strengthen the operational capabilities of the armed forces. There is no point now in reviewing the levels of compensation. As regards Allan Widman's second question on the measures I am prepared to take to safeguard the right of future military personnel to influence, I state the following. In the continued work of reactivating military service, the involvement of total defence obligations is an important issue for the government. The Government's decision on 2 March 2017 to reactivate the obligation to undergo recruitment and to complete basic training with military service means that the regulation on participation in total defence obligations applies to total defence debtors serving from 1 January 2018. The report A robust staff supply of military defence suggests that the government should carry out a review of the so-called participatory regulation. The question of how to deal with the investigation's proposals is currently being prepared in the Government Office. The government's intention is to carry out a review.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-194	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. These two interpellations are merged, but it is important to note that they concern different categories of personnel in military defence. As the Minister for Defence pointed out, it was on 11 December 2014 that the government, without hearing the Riksdag, revived the possibility of rehearsal exercises with duty. This, Mr President, has led to people in their 30s, 40s and even 50s now being called in for rehearsal exercises for the first time in more than 20 years. A couple of weeks ago I visited the exercise Våreld in Skåne, at Revingehed, and then met for the first time on long conscripts who were called for a rope exercise. It was men in their 30s who witnessed the social strain of having to leave home and family – many of them had very young children – and how this affected their spouses in different ways. It also testified that it led to a huge financial setback for the family. One person who had a gross salary of SEK 35 000 lost a single month of SEK 7 000 net, which of course has a major impact on the individual household. I am therefore a little surprised when the Minister for Defence laconically states that there is no review at all. So far it is a matter of a few hundred per year who do rope exercises and have previously been trained with duty. This, Mr President, is not an economic issue for the Swedish Armed Forces. My fear is that, when we deal with the financial benefits of staff in this way, it will reflect on the entire obligation of defence that is now coming back, including basic education with duty. It is my firm belief that duty must be cared for. In the '90s and '00s, we abolished the rope drills. After the soldiers got out, they never came back to their regiments again. We abolished the training of company officers and platoon officers. We reduced the withdrawal to basic education down to a few per cent of the year-olds. And we also abolished civil service. This, Mr President, was not to care for duty. On the contrary, all these measures were combined for the suspension of duty that came in 2010. The Minister for Defence is somewhat more positive when it comes to participation in total defence. I heard this week that the head of the HR centre at the Swedish Armed Forces in a group discussion with all the organisational units told me that everything is now coming back. It's going to be Social Security News, Military Council, Military Service Day, and so on. It is good that this will come after my interpellation has been submitted; that is just how the interpellation institute should work. However, when the Minister of Defence says that we are now going to review the issues of participation, it is important to stress that all these things should be in place on 1 January 2018, including the Värnpliktnytt newspaper, which should be provided free of charge to the conscripts. I am convinced that the Minister has been thinking about where to locate the editorial board for Värnpliktsnytt. My idea is Örebro. I look forward to hearing the defence minister's reflections on that proposal.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-204	Mr President, I would like to As far as financial compensation is concerned, I am not going to give any promises or answers until the date on which there is a concrete proposal. I am not going to speculate on how to deal with these kinds of issues. I am well aware of the sensitivity of these issues. I can also understand the parts that Mr Widman is talking about. Of course, I understand that this can put pressure on the situation. However, I believe that if we are to talk about financial compensation, there must be a proposal to be based on. We're not there today. I do not want to make promises, promises or insinuations which would then not be fulfilled or which could be used as a bat in the political debate, but I choose to talk about those kinds of issues when I have concrete information to give. For my part, this is the most serious way of dealing with the issue. As far as the issues of participation are concerned, there is a regulation in force. We are now going to take a relatively rapid look at this and come back to how this should be dealt with in the current situation. For my part, I am not going to comment on either location, conscription council, conscription days or Värnpliktsnytt, but we will have to come back to this when the review is done. On this point, too, I do not intend to go into argument today. Once we have carried out our review, I am ready to come back, and that review should, of course, take place relatively soon. I also know that we have a regulation in force from 1 January next year, when this will be implemented. With regard to the start of the military unit exercises and the rehearsal exercises, Widman had a sequence in his speech that it would have been decided, without hearing the Riksdag, and it sounded almost as if we had committed a breach of the rules in this context. One could extend the lines of thought to this. But that is not the case. The government has acted entirely within the framework of its competence and decision-making powers in this context. This is the situation on our part. We will, of course, be monitoring developments and possible effects on how to look at the remuneration rules that apply. As far as the issues of participation are concerned, I have indicated where they are currently.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-210	Mr President, I would like to I probably did not expect the Minister for Defence to come up with a ready-made proposal regarding financial compensation for those who carry out rope exercises with the support of total defence obligations. However, the message given to the House by the Minister for Defence is that there should not even be a review of this, and that actually disappoints me deeply, not least in the light of the despair that I encountered when I met conscripts in the field of practice. The Secretary of Defense does not need to formulate what participation should look like in all the different details. As the Minister points out, there is a regulation. It will take effect on 1 January 2018, where it is established that there will be officers in the platoon, company assistants, regimental committees, military service, military service council and military service news. All of this is already clear. That is why I agree with what the Minister for Defence says, or at least suggests: now it is very urgent that all of this should be put in place. We are talking about more than six months, two months of which are Swedish summer. When the duty was suspended in 2010, it was the government that was given the power to activate it again. Both in December 2014, when the rope exercise part was raised to life, and in March 2017, when it came to basic education with duty, the government has used this mandate. But when the Minister of Defence was in opposition, he would always return to the fact that the previous government had the duty suspended by a handful of votes. Against this background, it is quite amazing that the current government chooses to reintroduce military service in different stages without even anchoring it with the elected representatives in the Riksdag. I have said it before, and I say it again: I feel that this is an adventurous policy from the government, and I must say that I also regret it.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-213	Mr President, I would like to As Mr Widman might recall, I have had discussions with the other parties on this decision. In connection with such a meeting, I have also been directly urged by Mr Widman: it is surely just to activate the duty! The government has the opportunity to do so. I do not know if Widman experienced any deeper disappointment or surprise when we did what Mr Widman was telling me to do – although Mr Widman was previously one of those who were in favour of us making duty rest. So I have had discussions with the parties. I invited to such discussions. I have also discussed the matter with Mr Widman. That's what happened. With regard to the process of participation, I would like to say that it is a completely new organisation that will enter into force when compulsory military service is reintroduced on 1 January. It is a completely different organisation from the one that was when the regulation was created. There are four defence decisions since then, and some parts should perhaps look different in the future. That is why the rapid review that we are now going to do is necessary. We will come back to how this is to be organised in different contexts. But I am well aware of the regulations and other things that apply. Let me return to the question of compensation. It is not that I am disobedient or do not understand the situation of some people. That is not what this is about. However, as far as economic issues are concerned, it is at least my political experience that it is better to talk when you have solid proposals to make than to imply one or the other in different situations. These are decisions that are delicate and must be taken in the utmost seriousness. That is why I choose to come back to this issue when I have a real proposal and a sound basis. But it's not the same as being disobedient or not understanding.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-217	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to say on the record that it is quite correct that, for a number of years, I and my party have been in favour of reactivating the obligation of total defence. I did not, however, call for this not to be anchored in the elected representatives. Let's see how this goes. Finally, I have full respect for the fact that the Minister for Defence cannot make any proposals, make any promises or even imply any promises with regard to the level of compensation for those who undertake rehearsal exercise with duty. However, what he is saying in this House is that there is no point now in reviewing the levels of compensation. This is, to me, a very clear no to even studying these issues, and I am a little sorry about that.
i-0529bbf320eedea9-219	Mr President, I would like to I will come back to the questions of compensation when I have concrete information to give. Let me then refer to the history of the activation of military service. I have not said that Mr Widman would in any way have urged me not to anchor this. I have only said what Mr Widman said on one occasion, that it is surely just to activate the duty because the government has that power. I remember this very clearly, because I found it very interesting that Widman used that type of formulation and was so direct. In view of Mr Widman's own background in the matter, as one of those involved in abolishing it, and given that he thus gave an image: Act, and do so quickly! I also called the parties to a special meeting before we took this decision. The Liberals also attended the meeting – they were represented. This has thus been discussed in several different contexts. In conclusion, I believe that we have now worked out what applies to these two issues for the time being. I have taken note of what Mr Widman has been given in connection with his unit visit. It is important to listen in connection with those visits. I myself make that kind of visit for that purpose. Thank you for that information! I have also presented our position at the moment, and I will come back to these kinds of issues when I have more to say.
