i-9c502676a1e481d4-3	Madam President, I would like This issue concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's final report on the state's governance in the area of health care. It is the last report in a series from the Swedish National Audit Office, which has reviewed the area in different ways. The basis on which the letter is based has gathered all the conclusions that could be drawn. There is certainly reason to look at this area, which relates to the responsibilities of the state, but also to those regions that are the principals of health care. For me as a Christian Democrat, it is quite clear that this is an area where today we do not have the organisation that best benefits the citizens in the situations where care is needed. The chances of survival if you suffer from severe cancer vary depending on where you live. In a country where we say that we are protecting all citizens and where I think every one of our parties says that equal care is something that we want and which is also high on the agenda, we have different opportunities to access treatment and get the best possible care when we fall ill and when we need the resources of care. What the Swedish National Audit Office points to in the report are, among other things, the shortcomings in how the state tries to govern for equality geographically. There are major shortcomings in terms of equality from other aspects as well; who you are and what conditions you have affect which care you get access to. What is perhaps most serious in what the Swedish National Audit Office points out is that even when, based on science and proven experience, we come to the conclusion that in situations such as these, it is this treatment method that is the best and when we actually know what works and based on it gives guidelines, these are not followed. You don't care if you do what you know is best. What care you receive should be about the individual conditions in your illness and how your disease develops. There should be no difference in whether you get access to the best and right methods – whether you want to follow them or not – depending on where you get your treatment. This points out that the Swedish National Audit Office is a major concern, as well as that the state does not follow up enough why this is not followed in the care of the principals responsible for it. From the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats, there is a common reservation in which we take note of what the National Audit Office points out, namely that we need to clarify the role of the National Board of Health and Welfare in relation to the SKL, that we need to evaluate the cooperation between the Government and SKL in order to be able to take a fundamental position on the forms of continued cooperation, that we need to regulate transparency in management and ownership during and after investments where SKL is used, because this is unclear today, and that we should get a report to the Riksdag on the scope and development of the funds allocated to SKL. As a Christian Democrat, I see an extraordinary concern in how the government has chosen to proceed with the efforts made in the area of health care in the budget that we will be debating in Parliament later this autumn, where funds will continue to be provided without adequate target management. What will this lead to? During our years at the Ministry of Social Affairs, we worked out how we can target funds in such a way that it will have an effect on health care. The embodiment was a clear example of this. We screwed it to get the queues down, and it gave effect. When the government removed the increased queues. There are many who are in line for surgery now, and the gender has grown so much that if you were to put these people in a long row they would stand, one person after another, from the entrance of New Karolinska all the way to Akademiska in Uppsala. So many more people are in line because we have a government that doesn't control health care. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the reservation.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-14	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a top-class healthcare system in international measurements comparing the medical results. But when it comes to the quality and continuity of care, not least for the individual patient, and above all accessibility, we are in the bottom class. Sweden has slipped down and has one of the longest waiting times in Europe. This brings suffering and frustration and causes anxiety. Madam President, I would like Today, more than 100,000 patients are waiting in care queues. It is a doubling since the current government took office three years ago. This is not good enough. Therefore, it is extremely important to follow up on the report from the Swedish National Audit Office and see what you can learn to do things better – tomorrow – and to reduce suffering and improve accessibility. This is a review report that focuses on the effectiveness and quality of healthcare and seeks to ensure that we pursue the common goals we have set ourselves on good and qualitative healthcare that is managed according to needs. The report also focuses on the government's governance of health care, which makes it particularly interesting to review in such a context. The focus of the review report is on 2015, although more years are included. That is why it is delicious when the government parties say: No, we can, we have done this, and we do not need to learn this any more. Therefore, it has been chosen to simply try to add the report to the file without further action. The rest of us regret this. Madam President, I would like Today, it matters where you live in Sweden when it comes to what health care you get – both for continuity and quality, but of course also for accessibility. In alliance-led Halland, Jönköping and Stockholm we have today some of Sweden's shortest waiting times. In Social Democratically controlled Västernorrland and Dalarna we unfortunately have some of the longer waiting times. This development can be followed in SKL's own open database. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the distribution of responsibility today is somewhat delicate, as there are an enormous number of principals who are actors. But the law is very clear, and the government has a very clear responsibility for the equivalence of health care and to govern nationally. The Swedish National Audit Office even expresses the expectation that the Government will act. The national leadership in health care is therefore extremely important in order to comply with the legislation decided by the Swedish Parliament. Madam President, I would like Quality arises between the staff and the patient in the daily active meeting among the different actors in the care. But there, just as Emma Henriksson stressed before, knowledge management plays an extremely important role. There are clear shortcomings here, as the Swedish National Audit Office shows. The knowledge support that we have today to do the absolutely best for the patient at the first and most important meeting and to make sure to use the proven experience that exists, no matter where in the country we live, is not followed up clearly, is not analysed or is not used in the way that one actually believes could be possible in a modern developing country like Sweden. Madam President, I would like In addition to accessibility, there is another clear example where the patient can easily get caught. Therefore, the Swedish Parliament chose to decide on a new patient law a few years ago. Here, too, a number of government agencies have shown that the patient law is not sufficiently implemented. Here, too, one can show that the government has a clear responsibility to ensure that the legislation is put in place, to take concrete measures to ensure that the patient does not land between the chairs, to ensure that the care chain works and to put the patient in focus. The government confirms all of this as the Swedish National Audit Office says but draws a completely different conclusion. It is satisfied and leans back, and that is enough of what has been done so far. But reality shows something else. Accessibility is flawed, and the Patient Act has not been given the power it needs to be implemented. We believe that the government in these parts has abdicated from the national leadership and needs to take on the role again to make sure to focus primarily on the patient. We therefore want to continue to make sure that we use the proven experience and knowledge available in the area of governance. We want short waiting times, make sure to strengthen the patient, restore the queue billions, which proved effective in reducing waiting times, and make sure to have an implementation plan for a patient team that makes it possible to increase patient focus. We therefore propose that the Riksdag implement the recommendations proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office in this area of governance instead of abdicating and not taking any action. I therefore agree with the statement made by the chairman of the committee, Emma Henriksson, and with the motion for approval of the reservation contained in the report.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-27	Madam President, I would like We therefore have before us the Swedish National Audit Office's final report on the state's governance in the area of health care. In 2011, the Swedish National Audit Office developed a so-called audit strategy for the state and healthcare area. The background to this strategy was, among other things, that the Swedish National Audit Office had paid attention to a number of problems that were known but had not been solved. This included the fact that care is not given on equal terms, but also that the best possible knowledge is not used in all areas of care. Within the framework of this strategy, the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out ten reviews of different parts of healthcare, where the common focus has been on how the state's governance of healthcare has worked. During the preparation of this final report, a review of all the audit reports has been carried out and some observations have been made again in the various reviews. It is a question of the government using all too often non-traditional instruments to influence the principals of care in the desired direction. But it is also a question of a change in the division of roles between the National Board of Health and Welfare and SKL. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the government has made extensive use of forms of governance involving SKL, which has made SKL a central player in the management of healthcare and in practice has given them an authority-like role. However, since SKL is not an authority, the organization is not subject to the Administrative Act or the form of government, which means that the possibilities for accountability are not the same as if SKL were an authority. This means that neither the government, other authorities nor citizens can impose the same demands on SKL for objectivity and transparency as could be done on, for example, an authority such as the National Board of Health and Welfare. This is something that concerns us, because we believe it is important that we, as citizens, should always be able to demand responsibility. Since SKL has now in practice been given an authority-like assignment, it is important that accountability is possible but also that full transparency is available. This is, in the end, therefore, a matter of compliance with both the form of government and the administrative law. It is extremely important that citizens have transparency so that they can examine and demand responsibility from those to whom political power has been delegated. One of the concerns we see, like the Swedish National Audit Office, is that SKL's role is somewhat unclear, mainly in relation to the National Board of Health and Welfare. Madam President, I would like In addition, the Government itself mentions in this letter that it considers that there is reason to reflect on whether there has been an unclear division of roles, not least because it has been about the fact that SKL has had large amounts to handle and also a comprehensive administration. We also share the Swedish National Audit Office's view that the Government needs to evaluate the cooperation with SKL in order to take a fundamental position on the forms of cooperation. In addition, we share the Swedish National Audit Office's view that it would be reasonable for the Riksdag to be informed about the scope and development of the funds allocated to SKL, since it is often a matter of large sums that they have been given responsibility to manage. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-37	Madam President, I would like Landstingen and the regions are the heads of health care in Sweden. It is largely financed by income tax collected by the principals. The role of the state is, among other things, to pursue an economic policy that provides the conditions for more people in work and thus secures the income of the health authorities. The State also governs through legislation and subsequent supervision. In recent years, the state has tried to manage through specially-destined grants and agreements with the medical authorities, represented by the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, SKL. This has led to uncertainties as to the responsibilities between SKL in particular and state authorities, especially the National Board of Health and Welfare, which is responsible for a great deal in the healthcare sector. The Swedish National Audit Office is a very important public authority that reviews how the state manages its commitments. In its final report on the state's governance in the area of health care, the Swedish National Audit Office has, after eleven interim reports, pointed out several areas where the division of responsibilities is unclear. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, SKL, basically have different roles but that the government's governance has confused the roles. The Swedish National Audit Office is of the opinion that the government should primarily use the central administrative authority, the National Board of Health and Welfare, to implement its policy. The Swedish National Audit Office has recommended the Government to clarify roles and tasks, which the Government does not consider necessary. I agree with what my representatives in the speaker's chair have said, but I regret that the government is not listening to the National Audit Office. I support the reservation in the M, SD, C and KD report.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-43	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats welcome the review made by the Swedish National Audit Office of the government's governance of health care. As several speakers have pointed out, Sweden has, in an international comparison, high-quality healthcare, which is accessible to all. The model we have with county councils/regions and municipalities as principals gives residents the opportunity to influence the design of care from a local perspective through democratic decisions. It has also been shown that decentralised decision-making has freed up creativity and led to many good, economically effective solutions in the organisation and design of care. This, in turn, has benefited the citizens, who have received good care. At the same time, Madam President, it is important to ensure that all citizens – regardless of where you live and who you are – receive a high-quality modern healthcare that is provided with great security. It is the role of the state to ensure that care is provided on equal terms and that it is of the same high quality everywhere and for everyone. Therefore, it is good that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how the government's efforts have promoted the efficiency and quality of healthcare in order for us to achieve the goals of good health care. As regards the observations and conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office, we Social Democrats support the responses that the Government has given in its letter and that we are debating here today. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the government has abandoned the principle that state grants should primarily be given as general grants. In its letter, the Government replied that the majority of state grants to county councils and municipalities are general and that the targeted grants account for a smaller proportion. The contributions agreed by the Government with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council aim to stimulate efforts to develop healthcare, and the Government believes that some form of national governance will continue to be necessary to guarantee equal care. Agreements facilitate a long-term approach based on a common understanding of equivalence in quality and security, which is important because local self-government means that there will be differences. The means provided by the agreements are intended to support, stimulate and improve initially. If it is considered that the funds are needed permanently, they should be given as general grants to county councils and municipalities. Madam President, I would like A joint motion by M, KD and C points out that the government is targeting too much of the contributions rather than making them general. It is interesting to note, however, that these parties' views on whether state subsidies should be targeted or general differ quite significantly, as the proposals for the 2018 budget show. Regarding Sweden's Municipalities and County Council's role in the government's governance of health care, the Swedish National Audit Office writes that SKL has been given an authority-like role and that the government has not taken sufficient account of the fact that it can in turn lead to less opportunities to demand responsibility and that access to important databases is at risk. The government, in turn, believes that SKL is an important player in governance but that there is reason to reflect on whether there have been ambiguities in the division of roles. It also agrees that there may be uncertainty about the databases, but at the same time believes that there is a great value in the fact that the principals themselves manage registers that are of great importance to their activities. The Government also agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's view that the Swedish Parliament should be informed about the funds to SKL, although it may be difficult to give a true picture of how the funds are distributed and operate at an aggregate level. We Social Democrats agree with this, as we agree with the Government's view that the state will still need to conclude agreements with municipalities and county councils and their common interest organisation SKL in the future. To determine exactly what such cooperation should always look like, in principle, we believe, could lead to an unfortunate lock-up. The starting points are what needs there are, and it can vary from one time to another. There must of course be opportunities for the county councils concerned to influence the design in each current initiative and agreement in order to get the best possible results. Madam President, I would like As regards the Swedish National Audit Office's view that the National Board of Health and Welfare has a more evasive role, it may be true that the agency has not taken a sufficient role as advisor to the health authorities. However, given the current focus of the work of the National Board of Health and Welfare, and in the light of the initiatives taken in recent years, it can probably be said that the National Board of Health and Welfare is very active in its supporting function towards the principals. We therefore see, like the government, no reason to further clarify the role of the National Board of Health and Welfare. The Swedish National Audit Office also highlights the concern with the difficulties of having an impact on national knowledge support in county councils and municipalities. The previous speaker has also highlighted this, and that is a major concern. It is an important issue for a more equal health care that the principals take on board the knowledge support provided at national level, and we Social Democrats welcome the measures taken to promote needs-oriented knowledge support that is highly relevant and responsive. Examples of this are the regulation on government governance with knowledge regarding healthcare and social services and the report on increased compliance with national health care knowledge support put on the government table. There are also examples of a number of initiatives taken at regional, local and SKL level to work together on structures to receive knowledge support. I also think that something can be added. Emma Henriksson expressed herself in rather condescending and elegant words that the health care system ignores or does not want to acquire this type of support. I don't think it's that simple, but I think it's much more complicated. In addition to the fact that we have a very pressured situation in healthcare with great difficulties in recruiting and retaining staff – one is too few, quite simply – I think it is important to add that the work of digitising care should be supported and accelerated. It is essential for healthcare to have access to good and accessible decision support in order to benefit from the knowledge support. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-59	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say something about the last thing Anna-Lena Sörenson mentioned. It is absolutely not my intention to be ralignant to the health care staff; I know that they work extremely hard and make great efforts to deliver good care in the meetings they have with each individual patient. However, we can nevertheless see that the guidelines are not actually being complied with. The governance that we, who have the highest political responsibility in our country, use affects what conditions you get out in healthcare to have a good meeting with the patient – and for the patient to have a meeting with the care at all. My question to Anna-Lena Sörenson is, Madam President: how do you think it works with the governance we have now? About a week ago there were reports that it is now only one county council – a single one – that is capable of providing the children who need first contact with child and adolescent psychiatry with such contact within 30 days. So you have to wait a month for an emergency visit. The low level of ambition can only be achieved by a county council. Only three years ago, 16 county councils made it, or they managed at least to give 90 percent of all those who needed it their first emergency visit to child and youth psychiatry within 30 days. Now most people have to wait a lot longer. I received a letter from a father who said that his children this day had received the first visit. They had waited three years. How does that control work? You removed the targeted, clear mission – the result is that the number of county councils that manage this ambition after three years of Social Democratic governance has gone from 16 to 1.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-63	Madam President, I would like Emma Henriksson asked if we are satisfied with the situation. Of course we're not. Good access to healthcare is essential in order to have confidence in the system that we have. This system is fundamentally good but needs to be maintained – not least, this concerns our trust. We believe that the situation is due to a lack of competent staff in health care. We know that there is a great lack of certain types of specialist doctors, not least in general medicine. We also have a shortage of specialist nurses. It is a stressful situation in healthcare – we find it difficult to keep staff and recruit staff. This is why the Government spends many billions in the 2018 budget to improve the situation of the health care staff and to open up primary care, make it more accessible and get a more close care, so that you can meet the patients more closely. With regard to the situation of a BUP, or rather the whole area of mental health for children and young people, it is a failure. It is a failure for which we all share responsibility – you in the previous government, municipalities and county councils and we too. I have been involved in health policy since the 1990s, and this has been an eternal issue ever since. The resources we spend on BUP never seem to be enough. There is some fundamental system error that I think it is good if we can all take responsibility for. I think it's about seeing the kids early. We need to prevent mental illness. We must be able to look after kindergartens and schools, take care of those who need simpler measures and sort out those who need to go to the highly specialised care, as the BUP actually is. We all need to take responsibility for this.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-69	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have taken this on board. Our budget does not only provide more resources for the issues that are our priorities in the direction of the country, but we have also identified, in the area by area, important reforms to change the conditions. We know from experience that money is not enough. Money is often a prerequisite, but money is not enough – there must also be an idea of how to improve the business. That is why we propose that responsibility for health be shared among children and young people. Today, responsibility is divided between pupil health, primary care and child and youth psychiatry. We need to find another way to think. That is why – in order to increase equivalence – we propose that there should be a state responsibility for advanced care. That's why we introduced the cue billion. That is why we put in place a comprehensive strategy on how to treat people who suffer from cancer. In the area by area, we are proposing not only more funds but also better conditions for the health authorities to use the funds we invest. In several areas, during our eight years in the government, we were also able to show that it was effective, including in terms of queues. We know that one of the things that makes trust in health care in our country is that people feel that they do not get care when they need it. That is why I come back to the question: are you satisfied? And if you are not satisfied, as you said in your previous reply, what do you do about it? Do you take on board all the facts that are presented that queues are increasing and that confidence in health care is falling? Redo and do the right thing. Restore what we know works! We see that the effect of removing it is that it works worse.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-76	Madam President, I would like I think we agree that money cannot do this. On the other hand, money can help, for example in the form of hiring more staff in health care. More hands are needed in healthcare to also allow for changes. For example, we know that lack of care places in our hospitals allows many people to spend all their time finding care places instead of being able to reflect and develop and change what is needed. There is a need for change – I believe that we also agree on this. Many investigations are waiting to lead to proposals and eventually help change in health care. We have already seen suggestions from Anna Nergårdh, for example, on how this can be done. Emma Henriksson boasts that the efforts made by the previous government on the queue billions solved all the problems. However, this is not the case – it was also money. I rather believe that this led to the cementing of the structures and systems that we have in healthcare today, which we know are not working. We must make demands on health care when it comes to changing and changing the structures. This too, however, costs money and requires resources, which must be provided. We don't do this overnight. The culture is very hard out in the healthcare business – we see, for example, how difficult it is to have an impact on knowledge support. I think this will take time, but I think we are on the right track. I wish we could agree that we should lay out a road map to bring about these changes in healthcare so that we do not have the accessibility problems and the problems of not taking in knowledge support and receiving care that is accessible and good for everyone.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-82	Madam President, I would like If you want to change and improve, efficiency and quality management are of course one of the most important things. This applies not least to those of us who sit here as legislators and who have the privilege of seeing it a little more in an overall perspective for the patient in the common welfare systems that we have. This is one of ten review reports that we have received from the Swedish National Audit Office. It is of course good to be able to get this type of review report to see what we can reconsider and improve. It is somewhat surprising that the government leans back and settles down. I note that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson and the Government see some of the challenges, but when the answer is that the product is finished and left without action, one thing is said and done another. I was therefore going to focus on the challenges that are very clear to all of us: the growing care queues and patients who end up between systems instead of getting help and support from the existing patient law. I would also like to focus on the issue of patient safety, which we consider to be extremely important. An example from southern Sweden applies to women who have received ovarian cancer and who do not get part of the proven experience and surgery recommended in the national knowledge support. Instead, they learn from experiences that we know do not have the same high level of patient safety as others. The government has leaned back and said that it leaves this without action. My question to the government is: what is the strategy and recommendation of the government to get to grips with this which is so important, in terms of both quality and efficiency? It's about doing a little more right from the start. If this national audit report is not good enough, what reports are good enough?
i-9c502676a1e481d4-88	Madam President, I would like I can't help thinking about how many national audit reports the previous government took on board and made a workshop out of. It cannot be that all the national audit reports of the previous government had no bearing on the work of the government. I think this is something of a game for the galleries. But I think that what we are discussing is so serious that we need to do this. No one is satisfied with the situation in health care. If we are to maintain the high quality of health care, its accessibility and confidence, it is very important that we work with great seriosity and seriousness to change health care, make it more efficient and use the resources we have in the best way. Not least, it is important that we make healthcare attractive enough for people to want to work in it, research it and make it even better. The fact that women in southern Sweden are not allowed to take part in highly specialised care is a huge problem. Måns Rosén has also pointed out this in his investigation, which forms the basis for a legislative referral. It states that in Sweden we need to concentrate the highly specialised care so that we get skilled doctors and nurses who can take care of these cases and deliver care of the highest and most modern quality. That is what is included in this package, and I think we all need to sit down, reason and agree that here we are going to. It also says that on the other hand, we need to have a more close and effective care for the needs that are close to people – the old people and children – and much of psychiatry. It also includes, of course, preventive care to avoid ill-health, which in the long term will provide more resources for highly specialised care. That is how I think we need to work, and I think the government does too.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-93	Madam President, I would like It is good to note that the government sees the challenges. But what the Riksdag needs, if we are to listen to something about the need for both efficiency and quality, is to take on national leadership in order to comply with the Health Act in a completely different way than so far. Let's stand there again. There are thoughts and ideas and there are investigations, and we know them. We set up several of the investigations that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is now talking about. We've waited and waited. Then there have been national audit reports. Yeah, but we're gonna leave them without any action. We've seen the investigations, but when do you get to the workshop? When does it come to the point that it is time to do things too? The government has now been in office for three years. The investigations have been in place, and the consultation bodies have made their point. It's time to act. I took one example, women with ovarian cancer in southern Sweden. There you can see the challenge, but you still haven't acted. Another example is the number of organ donors in Sweden, which need to increase. There has been an investigation on the government table for many years, but the government has chosen not to act. The Swedish National Audit Office report is about governance and leadership. We know the government wants to do things, because we hear a lot of words in here. But when will the government govern, lead and use the proven experience and all the knowledge that the government says exists? They're not going to work! The role of the government is also to ensure that the state authorities implement the parliamentary decisions that we take based on knowledge and proven experience in order to have an increased patient focus. When will the government do this, and what is the strategy to move from words to action?
i-9c502676a1e481d4-99	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Widegren constantly comes back to this that the government does nothing. The government has now presented two referrals to the Council, one based on Anna Nergårdh's investigation and one based on Måns Rosén's investigation. What do the Moderates think of these? When will that be good enough for Cecilia Widegren? What are we going to do, and how much are we going to speed up legislation and development in an area that is extremely complex? We have the model in Sweden that it is county councils, regions and municipalities that are principals and that have the great responsibility to ensure that people get a good and equal health care. Now I haven't heard for a while what the Moderates think about the headmanship. The KD as well as the Liberals are clear on this issue. You will try to form an alliance with the Center, which has a completely different opinion on this and usually give a brand speech here from the speaker's chair about how important it is to municipal independence. What do the Moderates think about this? Is it not in the model we have chosen that we have to make demands for this to work?
i-9c502676a1e481d4-102	Madam President, I would like Listeners, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working purposefully to build the long-term sustainable and solidarity-based society.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-103	The audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office covers a period of approximately ten years until 2016. This means that the review covers eight years of alliance rule and two years of red-green rule or, if you like, nine years of alliance budget and one year of red-green budget because the first red-green budget was not adopted by Parliament, which instead chose the alliance parties' budget. The budget is undoubtedly the most important governance document that the government has to adopt in terms of governance. The review is therefore mainly concerned with the way in which the previous government governs. The criticism directed by the Swedish National Audit Office against the Government is therefore not related to the current government, but primarily to the former government. This does not make criticism less important because all governments need to develop governance systems. All of us, who are elected at different levels of society, are, of course, the extended arm of the electorate and have the task of trying, as far as possible, to implement what we have been given as our mandate to implement. This applies whether we are municipal politicians, regional politicians, MPs or ministers. The mandate given to us by the electorate is obviously slightly different depending on which party we represent, but we all have a mandate in some form. Therefore, criticism of governance may be a little strange, because without governance it will be difficult to implement the mandate. Perhaps I overinterpret the Swedish National Audit Office a little when I take their criticism that way. The Swedish National Audit Office is probably not really critical of governance in itself, but more of how it is carried out. In concrete terms, this debate is mainly about the extent to which governance should be channelled through an authority or through collaboration with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. I have been elected for 29 years, first in the municipality at home in Dalarna and then here in the Riksdag, and I think that during these years I have seen a pretty clear drift away from one-way steering towards, or to, cooperation as a governance form. I think it has been clear that we have gone in the direction that collaborative solutions have been the way that we are trying to steer at all levels, including in the business world. It has probably meant a partial reduction in political influence and an increased influence on something that could be called bureaucracy at all levels. At least it's a feeling that I've gotten. Perhaps, therefore, the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism should be seen as an invitation to politicians to regain a little bit of the power that may have moved to a more unclear structure of bureaucrats. The Environmental Party agrees with the Government's assessment that collaboration with SKL is an important part of the government's governance in the area of health care and that the division of roles between the National Board of Health and Welfare and SKL works. That's how far I thought I'd try to stick to my script. However, I would like to comment on some of what has been said here. I wonder if the opposition has read the report and the committee's statute because it uses such large words as the government has abdicated and has not listened to the National Audit Office. I am trying to compare the reservation with the committee's position, and I note that the committee's position responds to the reservations raised in relation to the Swedish National Audit Office's criticisms. Somehow it's a little bit to break open doors. After all, the majority of the committee agrees with the view that there is a value in obtaining the accounts requested in a few indents of the reservation. We also think that this is important; we have no different opinion there. As far as the role of SKL is concerned, I think that the committee answers quite clearly that SKL should not have an authority-like role, but, as in all other contexts, the government needs to have a party to discuss with. That, of course, is a practical solution. It is also to show respect for those against whom the state has to act. If municipalities and county councils have a joint representative, who after all SKL is, this is the one to cooperate with. It may not be appropriate to draw up cooperation agreements with each region, even if there has been history. I noted that the Center Party referred to local self-determination and its own funding as an important factor. I think that this is something that the government must take into account, so here the Green Party and the Center Party share some of the same view. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-115	Madam President, I would like Who's gonna do what and why? Today we are discussing the Swedish National Audit Office's excellent report, but we have some different approaches. There are major differences in health and access to healthcare in Sweden. The differences that exist in the population also reflect the care we receive. For the Left Party, the issue of equal health and care is entirely superior. The inequality we see in Sweden today is not acceptable. There are regional differences, but there are also socio-economic differences, gender differences and age differences that are completely unjustified. Many care places are empty in Sweden due to staff shortages and wrong priorities. More closed care places also mean more patient injuries. In this context, I would like to mention the long sex of children with cancer, and the major problems that this entails for them, in specifically two regions, the Västra Götaland region and Stockholm County Council. It's not defensible. The care centres must respond to the needs. They can only be opened if the staff comes back. Staff will return if they have better conditions, better working hours, better salaries and more opportunities to be involved in their work. That's my entrance. Who, then, will stand for the national prisoners? The fact that there are major systemic errors in health care in terms of governance is something we agree on, and we need to change this in the long term. The differences between county councils are too great in terms of content, structure and care. We need clearer national governance without detailed governance. The health care system must not look too different around Sweden, because the difference affects individual patients, whether they are regional differences or social status. There are a number of interesting measurements showing that low social status gives less opportunities. Municipal self-government is a starting point in the Swedish system. The design of the Health Care Act as a framework law is intended to allow the county councils to design care according to local needs, which is good. At the same time, equivalence is a portal clause in the Health Act. I believe that, regardless of the majority, too little account has been taken of the large regional differences and the differences that affect people because of class, gender, etc. This is a joint responsibility that no one can swear free of. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that on several occasions the Government has tried to supplement the framework legislation and the decentralised healthcare organisation with various governance efforts to increase national equivalence. This was also done during the time of the alliance government, as I can see for myself since I was in SKL in 2006– 2014. It was exactly the same system back then. I couldn't see you lifting a finger to change it, or maybe I was blind and tone deaf. SKL is the party that has long been a couple horse to the state when funds are to be allocated. But SKL is no authority. The role of the National Board of Health and Welfare should have been strengthened a long time ago. Now things are happening, which is good. The National Board of Health and Welfare will have a better platform. We agree with what the Swedish National Audit Office has said, but emphasise that the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions refer to a period that extends back some ten years and up to 2016, with emphasis on 2015. So it is the policy of the former alliance government that is being examined more than the present government, which has been developed together with the Left Party. That's interesting. Sometimes it may sound like everything went wrong when the government took office and negotiated the budget with the Left Party. In that case, the case must have been extreme in the year to which the report relates. But it's almost a choice, so it's a matter of touching your toes. We share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that there will be a need for national control of healthcare, for example towards greater equivalence, given the division of responsibilities that exists today between the state and the health authorities. This has also been put forward by the government. Here, the National Board of Health and Welfare plays a major role. At the same time, municipal self-government means that there will be differences as county councils have the responsibility to prioritise, adapt and develop their activities according to regional needs. However, these differences must not mean that patients are less likely to receive treatment and survival. That is the case now, and that has been the case for a long time, which is a joint responsibility. The Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted interesting observations and conclusions in its report, and we share several of the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments. But it takes more and more time for us to be able to work on a better structure that benefits patients. Then the Swedish National Audit Office's excellent reports are not enough. We must have more on our feet and make major changes, and it will take time. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-9c502676a1e481d4-132	Madam President, I would like The Liberals have taken the Swedish National Audit Office's review very seriously. It contains many wise and important observations. We find that there is a great sensitivity in the government's response to this. As far as I can see, this sensitivity is present in all parties. It is important that we take advantage of it also over the next election, because we do not know who is in power then. The fact that the letter is added to the file does not mean that the whole thought is closed, on the contrary. Now it is the Social Affairs Committee's report that applies. We have taken advantage of both what the Swedish National Audit Office has said in its review and what the government has said. It is a complicated area because of the municipal self-determination we have in our country. This limits government control in favour of local initiatives and initiatives. The state can rule by law, but they will be negotiated with the municipal authorities to get something that works. That's why some propositions have to wait. As several have said, the state also rules with general grants. I find that there is a great deal of consensus in that it should be the large part but that sometimes targeted initiatives are also needed. In order for these to function well, in view of the autonomy of municipalities and county councils, consideration must be given to how this money can be used in the best possible way. That's where SKL comes in, because of course it's better if you can negotiate with a party instead of maybe 20 or 290. Then we wouldn't get anywhere. SKL is not an authority. However, SKL has a great responsibility by gathering the views of its members and bringing them to the negotiating table to enable us in national agreements to succeed in our efforts so that the money really makes sense. There are good examples. I'm thinking about the pharmaceutical field. The national strategy there has been successful and continues to be successful, although we have a long way to go before the optimal use of medicines. This will continue. It is clear that we must be clear about the roles and clear also with the responsibility of the National Board of Health and Welfare. For quite a number of years now, the National Board of Health and Welfare has received a great many government assignments. It has taken resources from its own initiatives that the National Board of Health and Welfare has wanted to take as the knowledge and experience-sharing authority it is. This is something that I think we should all think about. It has not been included in the National Audit Office's report, but it is an important thing for the Government Office and also for us in the Riksdag to have discussions with the National Board of Health and Welfare about what they really think is most important to do. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
