i-5168d5493412ced7-19	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for the interpellation. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me whether I believe that the conditions for municipalities to provide effective social services will be adversely affected by a profit ceiling for companies carrying out social services tasks, and what measures I am prepared to take in my area of responsibility. The question is prompted by the Government's announcement that it intends to submit a proposal for a limitation of profits in schools and care to the Riksdag. The Government will continue to take into account the comments received and present a proposal that will continue to give freedom of choice, but at the same time increase the amount of tax revenue intended for the welfare of the company. The healthcare sector will not be covered by the proposal but will be further examined. The reason why the government intends to move forward with the proposal is simple: V inst as the main incentive does not belong in the welfare sector. The current regulation aims to increase public resources to welfare. I believe that it is reasonable to require that private operators providing tax-funded welfare services be able to demonstrate that public funds are used in the business in the manner in which they are intended. At the same time as the prize hunt is to be stopped, we want to safeguard freedom of choice and diversity in welfare. A common starting point for government work is citizens' expectations that publicly funded welfare services are of good and equivalent quality throughout the country and that the resources allocated will benefit citizens, regardless of the provider. The statutory responsibility of municipalities means that they are heads of social services that are handed over to private operators. Responsibility means that municipalities must always exercise some form of control in order to fulfil their obligations and be constantly prepared to provide services if operators disappear. The government has made it clear that individual actors will continue to be able to operate well. I do not agree with Ann ‐ Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's view that a profit cap will break well-functioning operations. Those who carry out serious welfare activities and who regularly reinvest in the business will be able to operate in the future.
i-5168d5493412ced7-27	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The ability to perform public services has played a crucial role. New opportunities have emerged to meet individuals' needs for support and assistance as they grow older as new performers have arrived. Women who have previously worked in the public or as mothers have seen the problems, thought about how to do instead and have mortgaged houses and other things to start their businesses. Near my home in Skåne is a retirement home that a woman has started. When she renovated and expanded, she used two female architects based on her own experiences. They asked around among their mothers and fathers, grandparents, neighbors, and friends how they viewed the matter. The result was a building that did not look like the buildings for retirement homes that were designed in Sweden in the 1970s and that were constructed in one and the same form. This is something else. It has become a well thought-out building, where the sun may reflect itself in the facade of the house. It has become a garden of senses where you see colors and changes and can take in impressions, where there are things that allow you to stand as well as sit and lie down. You can come out on the porch during hot days of the year when the sun shines. And there are windows that go from floor to ceiling. This can of course be done in municipal operations as well. But that's where you're behind. That's just the way it is. There are good examples, but they are not very many. For me, these are innovations for the little man. This is something the government talks about when it comes to industry and entrepreneurship. But for this sector, it seems that opportunities should be withdrawn. Suppose that we were later in time and that the government proposal would have been passed; if so, this woman would not be able to do what she has done. That goes for other women too. We are doing nothing but talking about a lack of capital. It is very difficult for entrepreneurs in general to get bank loans and especially for women. We have also talked about this. Here it is about good activities for the people you are for. At the same time, it is a system that could grow and become what the Government addresses, i.e. an opportunity to use the good examples around Sweden so that it can be possible for everyone. But now there is a proposal on the table that simply stops this, which slows it down so that people can shut it down. Another example is Linus. He has had help and support within the municipality. The schedule for the family has been in a year. So before January you should talk about what your life should look like until December. There is no flexibility at all. Linus had the opportunity to come to a group home. All of a sudden there has been flexibility. Linus and the family have a contact that you can call, such as if a wedding is at hand, so that the family can leave. It's been really complicated before. It has built up such a bureaucracy that it has hit the family. The first day Linus came to the group home he got massages, which he had not been able to get before. There wouldn't have been time for that. The family tells us that they cried when the accommodation rang and asked, "Is it okay that we give Linus massage every morning?" We can see that he responds to it. 中 Linus can't speak. He can't move. I think we should take advantage of these good examples. I would like to hear why the Government is so keen to use the proposal that is on the table instead of using the good examples as a starting point for what we are to build in our country.
i-5168d5493412ced7-39	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my colleague, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for a very important and urgent interpellation. I can only regret that this government has decided to attack all the fine and fantastic welfare companies in Sweden. In the next interpellation debate, Mikael Damberg will respond to an interpellation from Penilla Gunther about increased entrepreneurship. I guess it just shows how divided this government is. The government spends a lot of time and effort to remove freedom of choice, to sabotage for the welfare companies and – the reason I have signed up for the debate – to show mistrust of the employees of the private welfare companies. For me, it is incomprehensible that anyone can claim that an employee in a private welfare company would do a worse job than if you were employed in a municipality. In fact, I have never met an employee in any private welfare company who says: I do a worse job because I work in a private welfare company. Madam President, I would like Those who work in private welfare companies actually thrive better than you do if you work in the public sector. Sickness rates are dramatically lower in small private welfare companies than they are in the public sector. I think the Government underestimates the power of the opinion formation that you use. You're blacking out a whole business. You're blacking out female entrepreneurs. You are blacking out the employees of private companies. During the last six months I have travelled around my constituency, Gävleborg, and visited private welfare companies. On Monday I visited a free school in Bollnäs. A few weeks earlier they had had a meeting with all private welfare companies in Bollnäs. They had calculated how many people work in private welfare companies in Bollnäs. It is, Madam President, 1 200 employees. They work in assistance companies, in the hospital, in the private health centre and in free school. These employees are doing a fantastic job in the companies in which they are employed. It would, of course, be nice if the Minister for Children, the Elderly and Equal Opportunities showed appreciation for those companies and all employees in those companies and if she respected all those who have chosen to use the services of these companies. They have thus chosen to hire the private assistance company, to report their child to the free school, to list themselves on the private health centre. The answer claims that profit as the main incentive does not belong in the welfare sector. We are certainly in agreement and certainly in agreement with the private welfare companies. The only problem is that the proposal you have put forward would mean that Lust & Lära free school could never have started. The five teachers who formed that preschool nine years ago would not have been able to start the business with the proposal that you have put forward. It is likely that they will not be able to survive either. Your proposal would allow Lust & Lära to make a profit of SEK 115,000 per year. With the turnover that Lust & Lära has and with the margins that a company must have, it's the same as closing the Lust & L honor free school. It's the same as you shut down the private assistance company. If you don't want companies in this sector, say so and be honest. Say, we're socialists. We don't want private welfare companies. It would be honest with those who use the services, with the valuable employees in the companies and with the female entrepreneurs themselves.
i-5168d5493412ced7-51	Madam President, I would like This is an emotional debate. I have never said in this House or anywhere else that I am against private alternatives. Because I'm not. I really believe that ideas-based public and private alternatives have a lot to offer those who are entitled to the services and who need them. What we are discussing here is the limitation of profits and whether you invest in these people and in these staff. I am also a Minister for Gender Equality and I have followed fairly closely what women's wages look like in the labour market. This is particularly true of those parts of the labour market where many women work. Unfortunately, where many women work, whether the employer is private or public, women have lower wages than men. Unfortunately, this also applies to tax-funded activities. I'm in charge of care for the elderly in the government. I would very much have liked the privatisation that has taken place there to have increased the pressure on women's wages, but it has not. When you go through various studies you can see that there are no significant differences in conditions. I regret that the situation of women in the labour market is worse where many women work. This is the case in elderly care, in commerce and in restaurants – many competitive activities in the labour market. There are many reasons for having private alternatives in different sectors, but unfortunately we have not seen women's conditions in private businesses improve so far. I hope for another development. It would be great to have a contest about those terms, but it has not happened. We have committed 2 billion to care for the elderly in order to hire more people. A follow-up shows that elderly care has been able to hire more and have a little smaller staff groups. The staff groups are still incredibly large in care for the elderly. Working time has been better and so on. But we cannot see any major differences between private and public performers. I find it strange that we cannot talk about limiting profits when, at the same time, we have to use other tax resources to strengthen staff in, for example, elderly care.
i-5168d5493412ced7-58	Madam President, I would like I'll continue where I stopped talking about Linus living in this group home. The group home was started by a mother – speaking of investments. She started her business in Jämtland and has since built up three accommodations in three different places in the country. This is where our discussion differs. This mother could not have done this with your proposal. We are talking about operational capital that is to be limited, the capital that is to be built on. I want women to be able to start a good business for themselves, for themselves, for others and for those for whom it is for, the users. It's emotional. I get very emotional when I see the benefits of this and what fantastic opportunities there are in these places. I want my mother to be able to come to a place where I would like to live when I get older. I also want my child who cannot move to have the opportunity to be cared for by people who are happy, stay in the workplace and do not want to change it – people who love their work. I guess that's the drive we're supposed to be after. We can see it in many places, and that's what we're supposed to be doing. Let's not talk about profits that are not profits but operational capital. Otherwise, what Lars Beckman says is that there is something else that you want to achieve. You want to stop this. Everyone should enter the same template, into the old system that grinds on in the mills of bureaucracy. We don't want that. We want it to change. We want to build something for the future. We want these people to have the opportunities they deserve. There are more examples. Lars Beckman spoke of a preschool that would receive 115,000 crowns over. Landstingen is a part of Sweden that requires a number of crowns and the ring for those who run operations to have an airbag. It is no wonder that you have to have money behind you for unforeseen events and for things to be done. If you don't have that money, the business can't work. This is a bit like Emil and the sugar drink: How in the dog should they manage to run activities that you think are good, but that you don't really think is good? I'm really angry about this discussion. A woman who worked in another county council met a guy who had an accident, a guy who liked to paddle a canoe. He was crippled and very depressed. Then she did something unusual that she would not do in everyday life. She brought the guy to the canoe club, where they said, "Gud, it's so good to see you!" Like we missed you. We need your skills. The guy had suicidal thoughts and other things. He no longer wanted to live in view of what had happened to him. But he got a new joy from visiting the canoe association and from what she did for him. After she started rehabilitation and visited the canoe association, she was called to her boss. Then she thought: Wow, let's start a new business that works in a different way. But no. The boss said, "What if everyone did what you did?" What would that look like? It's all this old stuff we're gonna leave. We will start with something new where we see opportunities and innovations, which you are talking about. The equal government, where are you?
i-5168d5493412ced7-67	Madam President, I would like I want to go where Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson left off: Where is the feminist government? Where is the feminist government that protects female entrepreneurship in Sweden? Where is the feminist government that protects the women who currently work in private welfare companies with low sick leave, Madam President? I am absolutely sure that the Government is well aware that the rate of sick leave in the public sector is significantly higher than in private welfare companies. This is what the social problem is about – not that there are satisfied customers in welfare companies. Nor is it a question of young people who are currently sitting in the gallery having the right to choose a school or of Ann ‐ Charlotte Hammar Johnsson having the right to choose elderly care for their parents. This cannot be a social problem. The social problem must be how we improve welfare and activities. What if the government spent as much time improving municipal school and care for the elderly as blacking out private welfare companies? I think the Government should take the Minister for Enterprise and go to Bollnäs. I think you should go to the private welfare companies, look them in the eye and say: You are engaged in a profit hunt. This is not the reality. In reality, the employees of the private welfare companies are doing a fantastic job, and in reality these welfare companies are improving the business, just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson said. They're passionate about making things better. I think you should stop with your black painting. Otherwise, you should be honest and say that you Social Democrats do not want freedom of choice, whether for those who want to choose free schools or for those who want to choose elderly care. Then tell them that those who will choose personal assistant should choose the municipality! Freedom of choice means choosing the municipality. I do not share that view, and I think you should scrap this rhetoric and campaign.
i-5168d5493412ced7-75	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to have a debate when the whole point of departure is arguments that have not been put forward, at least not by me. The interpellation is addressed to me. I visit a lot of municipalities. I also visit many retirement homes every week, usually several and at least one. It's about both private and municipal. The differences for the users and for the staff have a lot to do with leadership. It may also, of course, depend on what the premises look like. This can play a major role. Most often, however, as I see it, it depends on how you think about the users, what the chief ideology looks like and how big the upper boss is responsible for. To what extent is it ensured that older ones can meet and talk to each other? Do they get to meet new people and have the needs met that are of course about physical needs but not least also about the existential ones? I am increasingly faced with this. One can see in measurements that a very large proportion of elderly and relatives are relatively satisfied with Swedish elderly care. But when I visit nursing homes, whether it's private or public, the elderly often say to me: Do you know what, Minister, it's great that you're here to visit us. We are happy to talk to you, but take care of the staff! The staff are rushing and running. They are plagued by the fact that they have to keep us waiting sometimes. They're having a rough time. This is said in both private and municipal retirement homes, and this is also shown in the statistics. This is a major problem and the sector needs to be developed. I'm a social democrat and I'm in favour of a high tax charge. That is why I am very keen that the tax money be used for the elderly and their needs. The well-being of the staff is also a social responsibility. They should feel that their job is sought after, that they are proud of their job, that others also want to work at their workplace and that they can develop what they do. This is a social issue. That is why the government has managed very large amounts of money during its term of office. I have mentioned that the funds have gone to care for the elderly. It has also been about general state grants to municipalities and county councils. We will continue to do this and also increase the funding, because we must meet these major challenges. But then it cannot be defended that tax money is being raised to unreasonable profits. Again, I am in favour of private alternatives and competing with each other for the best support for people who need it. However, we must take responsibility for society when it comes to the use of the tax money that people in Sweden are working hard for. This applies not least to those who work in the care of the elderly with many times quite bad conditions. Unfortunately, they are often at the same level regardless of whether it is private or public. It is not reasonable to take in large amounts of tax revenue and, at the same time, to raise huge profits from the same tax resource. It will be difficult to explain this to the citizens, and we also know that most people in Sweden think that this is not reasonable. I am pleased that there are many private options in activities for which I am responsible. For example, LSS, personal assistance, is two-thirds privatised. We also know that there are major problems there with the funds being used for other things than for the benefit of the users.
i-5168d5493412ced7-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I share the view that it has to do with leadership, at least part of it. Before people leave the gallery, I want to give them a homework: Look at math class what the difference is between operational capital and profits! There's a big difference. You will learn something new. Sick leave is a major problem, and it is twice as large in the public sector. Measurements in the elderly have shown that they are dependent, as the Minister knows. The question is how to solve this to find out how things actually are. I know women in the public sector are running like a squirrel wheel. For the activities that we have tried to describe here today, we could provide a list to the government with suggestions on how to work in other ways. You don't have to run around in a squirrel wheel. You can work in a smarter way. This does not mean that you work more efficiently, in the sense that you make savings, but you work smartly, which can be done in different ways. Finally, what I want to say in this debate is that I want everyone to be able to have it as Linus. I want more women who have seen things and can do something to be involved in creating good values in new ways within elderly care, health care and free schools. I want more mothers – and of course even fathers – who see and can take part in a development so that it will be good for our children and young people. I want women's creativity to have a good content outside the framework of bureaucracy and for this to benefit people. Why doesn't the government want to do that? Why is it so important to say that she has not developed this? She is responsible for the proposal because she is part of the government.
i-5168d5493412ced7-91	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation! It'll move on. Through my responsibility for social services throughout the sector, such as the Minister for Equal Opportunities, the Minister for the Elderly and the Minister for Children and the Minister for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I argue that the important thing for the people for whom I have a responsibility is that they receive the best care. I'm glad there are different kinds of performers. However, I cannot defend the fact that we see major shortcomings, sometimes in care and quite often in the situation of staff, when, at the same time, someone is raising large amounts of tax to profit. Most Swedes do not think this is a good idea either. I am anxious that we have a diversity and a variety of performers. Above all, I am concerned about the users and the staff, not primarily about the doers.
i-5168d5493412ced7-94	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has asked me if I can give an explanation for, and a picture of, the actors to be given funding on the basis of what strategy to meet the need for more and growing companies across the country. The government is pursuing a policy for more and growing companies. A diversity of companies and entrepreneurs is important for the competitiveness, innovation and sustainability of the entire business community. The Government's budget proposal for 2018 contains a number of initiatives that bring companies and entrepreneurs to the benefit of the Swedish business community. Sweden is and should be a country with a good business environment that provides the conditions for companies to create, grow and export. One in a series of business promotion efforts by the government is to enable support to business promotion operators, as Penilla Gunthers's question refers to. This is done within the framework of the Swedish Agency for Growth's mission to promote sustainable business development and sustainable regional growth throughout the country. The Swedish Agency for Growth has the opportunity to grant operating grants to business promotion organisations, and the Government has since 2007 handed over responsibility for operating grants and their size to the Swedish Agency for Growth. This was done to ensure the most effective and legally secure distribution of aid, as the Authority has the necessary competence to carry out such assessments. As of 2017, the Swedish Agency for Growth will distribute operating grants through thematic calls. Since 2017, the Agency has also awarded the operating grants for a longer period of three years, something that has been a strong request from stakeholders such as Coompanion and Nyföretagscentrum, which Penilla Gunther raises in her interpellation. The Swedish Agency for Growth currently offers the opportunity for operating grants to organisations that can help strengthen business work with design, strengthen business production skills, promote innovation offices, incubators and science parks, offer business advice for start-ups, promote students' entrepreneurship, promote cooperative development and disseminate knowledge about entrepreneurship, innovation and business development. In addition to the Swedish Agency for Growth's operating grants, the Swedish Agriculture Agency (Agriculture Agency) also announces, within the framework of the rural programme, funds for business advice with the aim of strengthening, developing and creating businesses in rural areas. The operating grants contribute to the work of continuing to strengthen the breeding ground for strong Swedish companies. The Government believes that a diversity of companies and entrepreneurs is crucial for Sweden's competitiveness, employment and innovation and equips Sweden for the future.
i-5168d5493412ced7-100	Madam President, I would like Good morning! I thank the Government for its answer. I have brought the budget area with me in book form, because it was really the basis for me choosing to set this intersection. In the past, it has been quite clear what the various EWCs have got. We have previously had an interpellation debate about the lack of continued funding for, for example, the Snille flashes and the whole range of organisations that were present. We have a variety of such organisations that aim to provide business advice and start-ups within different groups. We have, for example, UF in school, Drivhuset at colleges and universities, Coompanion for cooperative development, New Entrepreneur Centre for Business Start-up in general and a number of other actors. The question that has bothered me and to which I would like the Government's answer is: Where have all these actors gone? Even if a matter is left to an authority, it should still be possible to know what these actors are getting. Is it the case that the responsible authority, in this case the Swedish Agency for Growth, does not continue with its operating appropriations, even though the appropriations have come in bulk from the Government and the Ministry? It is also the case that we see clear steering towards Almi as the sole saluting player in this area, which many are opposed to. Almi definitely does not accept people who want to start work integration social enterprises. They don't have the skills to do that. They want strong players that they know can have a supporting business idea right away. They do not want to devote extra counselling hours to those types of people who come and want advice. Cooperative advice can definitely nothing about either, and Coompanion will of course take care of it around the country. Winnet has had his funds redistributed to be a thumbnote, put to the point. All of a sudden there is no money, except in regional growth funds. Then each regional player will choose to give funds to Winnet and other types of organisations that I mentioned just now. If, for various reasons, one chooses not to do so, these activities will de facto be discontinued. There is no way to push them forward. Then it must be very clear what it is that makes the government not want to show up so actively that these organisations in different ways and with their different target groups continue to have a role to play. We can read in the budget for this expenditure area that the proportion of people in Sweden who know what it takes to set up and run companies was 54% last year. Then I say, who himself has worked on this: What does the Minister want to do about this? If we get better advice, it will also be better companies.
i-5168d5493412ced7-106	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for the discussion. I think you have to be careful to think about how we want to run this business. I have based on the same governance model as the previous government. The system means that the Swedish Agency for Growth is responsible for allocating resources and making assessments of how to work strategically with the promotion issues. It was a model introduced by the bourgeois government that this government has not changed. This means that it is the Swedish Agency for Growth that now, with longer periods of time, actually up to three years, allocates funds to these organisations. It has been something that they have asked for and that we think is very good, because it creates more predictability in the system. It's not classified information. The Board of Growth is very clear about this. One could surely have written a list of who has received funds for the next three years. That's not a problem. But it can create the picture that it is the government that controls precisely how much money the NGOs receive. In our model, which was introduced by the previous government, that is not the way it is done. I think that one should be clear to those who read a budget bill about who makes the decisions on the allocation of funds, and this is done by the Swedish Agency for Growth on the basis of its assessment of both how it has worked and what needs there are. I think this model is good. If the Christian Democrats or the Alliance wants to change that model, that's fine. But then you can be open with it and say: No, we shouldn't have it that way. Then one would have thought that the Christian Democrats wrote in their budget motion how much you wanted to give to the respective organisation. But I didn't read that in your budget bill either. If you think that the Swedish Agency for Growth should have that responsibility and believe that this authority has a legally secure process for the distribution of these funds, I think you should stand up for that model. Is business promotion and information an important activity? Yes, it is. Is it good that Almi leaves it to Coompanion to inform and support companies in the social economy, for example? Yes, I think it's good, because Almi doesn't really have that expertise and isn't experts at it. I am pleased that Almi will pass on the possible corporate structures to Coompanion, which has the specific responsibility for and the unique knowledge of corporate structures in social enterprise. That's how we want them to work – they interact with each other and don't go into each other's specialties and responsibilities, because there are several different business promoters with different efforts. If I may raise the issue a little, I can say that what we are seeing right now is an enormous start-up. I saw the latest figures from October. I don't know if Penilla Gunther's seen them. Start-ups vary very much from month to month, so you shouldn't overwhelm one month's statistics. It's gone down and up. But the fact is that the latest statistics show that 6,049 new companies had started in October. That is the highest number since 2004 and an increase of 18%. 19 out of 21 counties see a sharp increase in start-ups. It has to do with information and support for entrepreneurs, but ultimately it has to do with the economic cycle and the growth policy we have in Sweden. This year we are expecting a 3 - percent growth that is largely based on investments that this government is prioritising. We have a positive development. We must follow the question of how we support start-ups and growing companies. I would be happy to continue such a discussion. But I do not want to change the model that it is the Swedish Agency for Growth that allocates and distributes funds.
i-5168d5493412ced7-112	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised by the attitude of the Government on this issue. It's not about that if you're not satisfied, you should change the model. What I want to achieve is the importance that these organisations have around the country. I find it difficult to see that Almi, a state-owned company, will distribute funds to either the New Entrepreneur Centre or other advisory organisations. However, it cannot be possible to do so. If you now want a structure, as the Government says, with the Swedish Agency for Growth as the authority, then they should really distribute the funds. We obviously agree that it is a model that should work, but it should not go through Almi. A clear example is the mentoring programme of the New Entrepreneur Centre. It will all of a sudden be transferred to Almi despite the fact that the New Entrepreneur Centre has been running it successfully for several years. Almi will also in some way beneficent, about social, donate to the New Entrepreneur Centre. I think it's totally horrible. We will have a model where everyone sees what is happening and what is happening with the funds that are set aside for different organisations for business promotion. What I want to get at here is that it's not clear enough. We should be aware that if there are reportedly about 100 million – I repeat the figure, 100 million – to the organisation The whole of Sweden will live, it has not gone through any particular mill and malt when it comes to fairness for business promotion. I would like to see an account of what makes you choose to spend so many millions on this type of organisation when you hardly spend a few million on the New Entrepreneur Centre, which still exists throughout the country. I met with representatives of W inside yesterday. They were at the meeting of the Industry Committee and preferred their activities. They have great confidence in the country, absolutely, but also abroad. They have a Baltic Sea cooperation, the Center of Excellence, and so on, and have cooperation with the UN. But here in Sweden it is disturbingly impossible to be able to get part of the regional growth funds. This means that they will have to close down activities quite soon in the regions due to a lack of funds. Then it is not really true that it is only the Swedish Agency for Growth that should somehow manage the figure with funds that have been allocated to them, but it is run at different levels. If we look at Almis's activities and talk about how the distribution has been made, for example, with loans, it is not least in the budget that 31 % of the loans have gone to women and 69% have gone to men. If we also talk about women's entrepreneurship and put diversity concepts into this, it is even more important that we have a number of actors who can meet the needs of different people when it comes to business start-ups.
i-5168d5493412ced7-119	Madam President, I would like There are so many questions in one and the same discussion. I'll try to sort out some of them. The first is that Almi has a special assignment to work with under-represented groups with loans, for example, and women are specifically identified there. Almi is one of the few actors who account for gender distribution. It is a requirement on our part to be able over time to follow that things are getting better and that women's entrepreneurship is taken seriously. It is a very clear governance issue from the government. We think it is important that you report it and therefore over time can follow that you succeed in your mission to work with under-represented groups. Another under-represented group is people with foreign background. They may also sometimes find it difficult to obtain loans or funding on grounds of discrimination from other actors. State actors can play an important role in this. Nevertheless, I am a little surprised that there will be some kind of attack on the whole of Sweden to live and the regional policy approach that the government has. It is one of the biggest and most important issues of our time to ensure that both service and business can work throughout the country. Experience from the election results in France with Le Pen's success, with Brexit and with Trumps's election victory shows how important it is to keep a society together and the whole country in development and growth. There, the government is making major efforts in the budget again, not only for the whole of Sweden, which is an organisation that receives support, but above all for the Norrland Fund, which receives an enormous amount of SEK 200 million for increased lending to entrepreneurs in the five Norrlandslänen. I was very surprised when I read your draft budget which you are proposing to withdraw that support. It is one of the most important growth-generating measures we can do on the part of society. We know that private commercial banks are not as present throughout Sweden and in rural areas in our country. Then Almi, as a heavy government player or the Norrland Fund, can play a very big role. This government has decided to make that choice. As far as gender equality is concerned, it is correct that we have not saved anything on the money for gender equality. What we have done is to move that money to the regional level. It is a choice we and not least the Swedish Agency for Growth have made, and we have supported it. Regional responsibility for growth must be at regional level. Not everything can be done from Stockholm's perspective. If you are going to work with the issues seriously and want to influence business development throughout Sweden in close cooperation with the actors that exist, the regional actor with development responsibility should work with gender equality, and then there is responsibility at regional level. You can say that it is wrong and that you should remove the issues of gender equality from regional development responsibility and say: Gender equality is not a priority for you, it should only be at national level. I think we're getting less impact from it. We have less equality in the work that is done on the heavy issues of regional development responsibility if the issues are not there. This means that in some contexts you are a self-evident and hugely heavy player regionally and thus a natural partner. In other areas, it is not as heavy as the player. There may be other actors and other structures that work with the issues, and then it becomes a little different across the country. It is based on working with the structures that provide the most bang for the money and the most gender equality work overall. For this government, equal entrepreneurship is a very important issue. We will continue to work on it. But we will not apologize for also working with regional development throughout the country. It is one of the biggest growth issues of our time to ensure that growth, development and job growth take place throughout the country.
i-5168d5493412ced7-130	Madam President, I would like I can only inform the Government that the Christian Democrats have in their budget put special funds precisely for regional development and, not least, research into the fact that we have similar structures in the so-called exclusion areas a, which are in the cities and larger agglomerations, as in rural and sparsely populated areas. The current government has certainly not taken hold of this. If we're talking about gender equality, it's something I've been working on all my life. That is why I became a Christian Democrat and started working politically at all. It therefore becomes even more incomprehensible to me that, in some cases, the responsibility for promoting gender equality in business start-up and business promotion is left to the very regional level if the regional level does not meet what the government considers important. If you don't take advantage of W inside or others who clearly work with women's entrepreneurship, it becomes a concern. We also have a government player like Almi who does not achieve higher results in lending than 21%. I do not think these are good enough results. We should agree that it must be improved at all levels. Then it is completely impossible when it comes to an organisation that the whole of Sweden should live. I like that organization and I don't mind it. But it is unreasonable not to put it in the same context as the other organisations, which also work across the country and want to promote regional growth. Why are these organisations not dealt with in a similar way? That is the basis for the whole interpellation debate. I do not see how the government has thought and what structure and what plan it has for the area.
i-5168d5493412ced7-135	Madam President, I would like Perhaps we can come back to this issue several times, because it is important. This government does an incredible amount more for regional development than the previous government did. This is de facto in the budgetary context, where it is a matter of prioritising the funds that go to municipalities and county councils to give development power throughout the country. This also applies to the exchange of investments in broadband where we have doubled the support for expansion and are making greater investments in infrastructure for the coming planning period – much larger than before. In addition, we are, for example, making targeted investments in financing specifically for companies in the five Norrland counties. I am very surprised that the Christian Democrats oppose this initiative – the biggest investment in many decades on regional development and business promotion in the five Norrland counties. I think these are very important questions. We will continue to drive them. Perhaps it was not easy for the Christian Democrats or the Center Party to get through this type of issue with a moderate-led government in the past. It's quite possible, because the Moderates were very Stockholm-fixed. We will continue to pursue regional development and it can be guaranteed that a feminist government will continue to pursue gender equality issues. We have completely different images of how successful the Christian Democrats are in their gender equality work. These are structural issues where we have to work on a broad front, and we will continue to do so. I am proud that we have state actors who report how uneven the distribution is and that there is an opportunity over time to look at both the state organisations and private actors and put pressure on them to become better at lending and gender equality work. We will continue to pursue this in this government.
i-5168d5493412ced7-138	Madam President, I would like Jan R Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take in order to ensure that Sveaskog complies better with its ownership directives on promoting rural entrepreneurship – this is because Sveaskog has made certain land purchases in Kalmar County. Initially, I want to make it clear that Sveaskog does not have any owner instructions governing its operations or questions regarding the purchase and sale of land. Sveaskog's mission, however, was clarified by the Riksdag in 2010, see proposal 2009/ 10:169. This shows, among other things, that Sveaskog's operations must be based on a commercial basis and generate market returns. In addition, it is stated in the commission that Sveaskog, through the sale of land on market terms, should allow for leases and purchases for individual forestry, especially in sparsely populated areas. The sale of land shall take place until 10 per cent of the area the company had in 2002, at the time the company was formed, is disposed of. In total, Sveaskog has divested approximately 8.4 per cent of the area. Sales are now only in southern Norrland, Västerbotten and Norrbotten. In the rest of the country, including Sm Åland, Sveaskog has divested 10 percent and thus fulfilled the assignment. Sveaskog acquires ongoing properties that can help to strengthen and streamline the structure of forest holdings on a commercial basis and adapt it to demand and customer deliveries. This also contributes over time to improving profitability according to the owner's objective. I fully share the view that it is important for rural companies in Sweden to have good conditions and to be able to develop. Therefore, the government is now making historic investments for more jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. Efforts are proposed to make it more attractive to live, live and work in Sweden's rural areas, ranging from targeted investments in green industries to increasing services in rural areas. On the basis of Jan R Andersson's question, it is therefore important to emphasise that Sveaskog contributes in a very significant way to a vibrant rural environment and the promotion of rural businesses through the company's all timber suppliers, hired forest entrepreneurs and the promotion of nature tourism around the country.
i-5168d5493412ced7-143	Madam President, I would like Sveaskog's actions are important because they are one of the major forest owners in this country. It also affects the perception of how the state manages its ownership, especially in rural areas. It is also an important issue because through the forest we have one of our most important export raw materials, a view that I am sure the Minister for Economic Affairs will share. Without the forest, we will find it difficult to stand in the future. It means a lot of revenue. This is also the result of an ownership structure that has had a diversity and many individual forest owners who have managed this asset, sometimes for generations. Forests are a major rural resource today. It should also include the parameter that individual forest ownership is not just about producing for an industry to obtain raw materials, but also about creating rural areas and slowing down restructuring from country to city. Where you own and manage your own forest, you stay. We can see the difference: where there are large state owners, there is a greater exodus than where there is a larger proportion of individual forestry. In short, according to its articles of association, Sveaskog should do three things. They're going to do other things too, but these are the three things we're focusing on here today. The first is to sell land, the second is to benefit rural businesses and the third is to facilitate the rational management of forest properties. The first part I think the Minister for Economic Affairs has answered. As far as the Småland section is concerned, I understand that the target of 10% of sales has been achieved, and there are other data. But the other two tasks remain. It is therefore a question of favouring rural businesses and facilitating the rational management of forest buildings. In these parts I do not think that Sveaskog is doing everything they can. The answer given by the Minister for Economic Affairs does not really breathe the seriousness that I think the question requires. It is, of course, difficult for the Minister for Economic Affairs to understand the two cases I raise. But I can say briefly and without being subjective in any way that these properties do not benefit rural businesses. They also do not favour the rational management of individual forest properties. What is also being done in these cases is to drive up the prices of forests for individuals who want to manage the forest. Instead of individuals close to housing managers of the land, one gets a state forest company that manages the forest. I believe that an individual close management of forests is better than large-scale government management. Rational management is also important. We must constantly rationalise and improve in all industries in Sweden in order to be better. Forests must also be able to manage rationally. If you do not contribute to this through a state forest company, you will of course create problems. I have drawn attention to two cases, and there is also a third, in which I have not been so familiar. But since I have learned from my colleagues and friends back home in Kalmar County that Sveaskog is acting in this way, one can of course suspect that they are acting in a similar way in other parts of the country. That's not good. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Economic Affairs has any interest in reviewing the administration. Although this is a responsibility and a governance shared by the Ministry of Industry and the Riksdag, there are good opportunities for a minister to review how to regulate these parts. The government also has the right to raise proposals that can come to Parliament so that we can find a solution to the issue. In this way we can make better use of the gold chest we have in Swedish forests.
i-5168d5493412ced7-152	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue. The forest is an important natural resource that Sweden has. In fact, it is also the largest net export from our country. It creates large export revenues to Sweden, it creates industry in several stages and it also creates jobs throughout the country. Forests are therefore one of the most important industries in our country. Sveaskog is an important player and Sweden's largest forest owner. It is also important for Sveaskog to rationally manage their forest holdings. It plays an important role in the systems of the entire forest industry and in the ecosystem. Sveaskog currently has over 800 employees across the country, and most live in rural areas. They have 1,400 forest entrepreneurs for whom they create jobs and who in turn create 5,400 jobs in logging and forest management across the country. Sveaskog thus has 1 400 forest entrepreneurs and a total of over 6 000 direct or indirect employees throughout the country, so I would say that they play a very important role for those who live and run businesses in rural areas. In addition, Sveaskog has agreements with about 100 tourism entrepreneurs that create additional jobs in a growing tourism tourism tourism industry and other activities. This is therefore a large and important company. What's a little special and that I want to talk about before I get back to the issue is that Sveaskog delivers timber regardless of the economic situation and price situation. It has a very important function for the Swedish forest industry, because then you ensure that sawmills get a steady timber flow all the time so that they can plan their operations, deliver to their customers and thus also survive. Without a long-term supplier when it comes to timber deliveries, there would be major ups and downs, and we know how not least sawmills have been under financial pressure over time, so this is an incredibly important infrastructure for a functioning forest industry in Sweden. Private forest owners also play an important role for Sweden and for rural development, but their felling is more driven by prices and perhaps generational changes that are not always ongoing. I therefore believe that Sveaskog has a very important role to play in being a heavy player that delivers regardless of timber prices and thus gives a long-term perspective. Of course, the 1 400 forest contractors are also dependent on a steady rate of felling, otherwise it would go up and down all the time in that sector too, and I do not think that would be good. I believe that when we own such a large and important company as Sveaskog, we in the state must be clear about the governance of the company. How is it to be controlled? What are our expectations of the company? When the previous government amended Sveaskog's articles of association in 2010, no changes were made to this part of the articles of association. Nor have I had any reason to do so during my three years as a minister. Sveaskog continues with its programme for the 10 percent, but especially in northern Sweden where this has not been achieved. But there is no ban on Sveaskog saying that they must not buy land too. This may be important for Sveaskog to be able to conduct rational forestry and manage its flows. I think it would affect the countryside if Sveaskog were to be prevented from sometimes also buying forest land. Then prices would decrease on valuable forests around Sweden. So I think it is important that Sveaskog can also buy land on occasions to rationally carry out its forestry and operations, because we also have a yield requirement for Sveaskog that they will meet.
i-5168d5493412ced7-161	Madam President, I would like I share in all essential things what the Minister for Economic Affairs says. It is clear that a company like Sveaskog must be allowed to buy land in order to maintain its operation and function. My image of Sveaskog is not that one has deliberately made a mistake, but my image is that it is a good company that runs its business in a commercial and functional way, and therefore one is eager to keep the company just well run. That is why buying-in is sometimes made which, I think, may not be entirely in line with the directives that we in Parliament have given. It has nothing to do with the company being mismanaged, but on the contrary, perhaps it is well-managed and that it has a great ambition within the company. But it must be noted that the ambition that Sveaskog will sell forests in parts of Sweden may be speeded up. The last two annual reports show that Sveaskog's holdings of forest land have increased. It shows something other than that the directives we have given are being complied with in all respects. Right now there are good conditions to sell forest land because the prices of wood are quite high. When the Minister for Economic Affairs says that governance is clear, I hope that this means that the Minister for Economic Affairs is also prepared to look at whether there are problems. I have taken a positive view from the Minister for Economic Affairs that I share my view of the importance of this company. If you share this view, you should also look at the function.
i-5168d5493412ced7-165	Then I think that this discussion in general on how to create local conditions is important. As a Smålander I know what it has looked like in Småland where the land has been cultivated for many generations and manages its forest property in a wise way. This is why this goes a little contrary to what the Minister for Economic Affairs says about the major investments made in rural areas. Today, I believe that many forest owners are nervous about future legislation that risks transferring the advice over their own land in some cases to environmental organisations that will be able to decide whether or not to harvest. Today, we have efficient forestry that takes great care of the environment, but I believe that many forest owners would be intimidated by a situation in which you, together with the authorities, are not allowed to decide when to harvest your land. I believe that this would have a very dramatic and negative impact on our competitiveness in the world as well, and that the export engine that the forest industry has been would be severely damaged by this. Let me also say a few words about the rural initiative mentioned by the Minister for Economic Affairs. It is good in some respects, but at the same time we can see that there is no strong growth in many parts of the country, especially in those parts where the forest is growing. That's a problem. I think we should look at how Sveaskog can continue to dispose of land. Over a few years they have had a target to divest approximately 10 percent and have well reached 8.4 percent. So there's still a lot left to sell. I also think that one should look at how to increase the disposal of forests from Sveaskog so that you can gain greater local ownership, because one of the foundations of how we can develop and retain the rural population is, I think, that you actually have the opportunity to own and manage your own property, especially in the forest.
i-5168d5493412ced7-170	Madam President, I would like It is good that we are broadening the discussion on regional development a little, because it is an important priority of the government. I can only note that this government is doing an incredible amount more than the last one, not least when it comes to government jobs. We are now moving state authorities from Stockholm to the rest of the country. The E-Health Agency was one of the first authorities to be relocated, and it now ends up in Kalmar County. I think this is important for the legitimacy of the state. It is also a clear violation of the tradition that the previous government had where most of it was centralised to Stockholm. Now we have a different focus on politics, and I think we should be proud of that. I also hope that this discussion can lead to the Moderates taking a greater interest in rural development, because it has not been a characteristic of the Moderates. In any case, it has not been a priority for the Moderates in the years that I have been in Parliament. I very much hope that it can be in the future so that we can have a greater consensus that these investments in rural areas are important. As far as Sveaskog is concerned, I have no work in progress on amended directives. I think that Sveaskog is a well-run company that has an important natural resource to manage in a market way but also in a sustainable way. The company has very high ambitions in terms of sustainable forestry, and I am also very proud of that. I think it is important that the forestry industries as a whole show that they take sustainability issues and, not least, biodiversity seriously in order to also preserve the legitimacy of our successful forestry policy in Sweden. Sveaskog is an important company, and I have no intention of amending the directives on this. I can only say that Sveaskog does not currently have any specific ownership instructions for regulating the purchase or sale of land. It is important what we say about the company and what expectations there are of it. On the other hand, Sveaskog is a very important regional and local player. I know how important the company thinks it is with local cooperation and to find good collaborations with different actors. They act in large parts of Sweden where the forest is located and want a long-term relationship both with their employees and entrepreneurs and with industry in general. I know that Sveaskog strives for good relations. Their doing so also means that they sometimes need to be able to buy land in order to become rational in their own business. Should we send some kind of signal from the Riksdag that Sveaskog could never buy land to rationalise its forestry and process, we would send double signals about how to control the companies. I also think it would be detrimental for rural development if Sveaskog were not to buy land around Sweden from time to time, because then market prices would fall. Nor would it be good for those forest owners who invested perhaps 80 or 100 years ago in their forest and have managed it and want to be paid when it is to be sold. I think it is important that Sveaskog exists as an actor, but I really hope and believe that Sveaskog can prove over time that it is a local and regional partner that is an example in forestry policy but also a long-term supplier of forest products.
i-5168d5493412ced7-178	Madam President, I would like I do not think, in essence, that we differ significantly in our view of Sveaskog. It's an important player. I also know that it is an actor that is appreciated by many timber buyers. As the Minister for Economic Affairs has said, Sveaskog needs to remain. The Minister for Industry listed jobs earlier. I think those jobs would have been there even if Sveaskog hadn't been there. Perhaps they had been even more local. It might have had a larger and more viable countryside if these companies had been even more local than they are when they are procured by Sveaskog. Let me also say that I do not believe that many forest owners in Kalmar County care very much that they have received an e-health authority in Kalmar. I don't think it affects the rural areas of Kalmar very much. Of course it's good to share your jobs. But for those living in the countryside it is often very far even to Kalmar. Let me also say, as a small counter-image of what the Minister for Economic Affairs says, that it was in fact the first time in a very long time that government jobs increased in the country. This was done because we strengthened society as a whole in the form of training measures, in the form of insurance funds, in the form of police officers and so on. Just investing in moving jobs to major cities in the country, I don't think much is helping to maintain the countryside. But, as I said, my hope is that you take these issues so seriously that we can get a Sveaskog that helps to help the countryside. It's a matter of reparations, which are important. They are as important for Sveaskog as for individual foresters in order to achieve rational forestry. That is really what is at the heart of the export success of the forest today. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will share this.
i-5168d5493412ced7-183	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the interpellation debate. I think we should talk even more about the forest in the Swedish Parliament. For it is so important for job growth, for the opportunity to live and live in the whole country and for the whole kingdom in the form that this is the largest net export from our country. Sveaskog is a very important player in this, and the state will manage this treasure very well. That is why I always welcome a discussion on the state companies, especially on the role of Sveaskog in the future. However, I have to say that I am a little surprised that in this House, precisely from the Member of Parliament who is now having a debate with me, I hear questions about the E-Health Agency: Was it important to move it to Kalmar? I think you should be happy that the state has a greater responsibility for the whole country. We can show that everything does not have to happen in Stockholm. I think it's an incredibly important signal. One can also reverse the perspective and consider what the E-Health Agency can mean for rural development. This means great opportunities for better service when we work digitally across the country and can do it smarter in the future. The fact that Kalmar is now receiving lead in relation to the E-Health Agency I see as a very important signal. I can also say something in the light of optimism. The small enterprise survey was presented a few months ago. It turned out that Kalmar County was at the top of the list in terms of optimism among small businesses. A lot of people want to grow. It says something about the fact that the business community is currently looking positive on both job growth and future prospects in Sweden and also in Kalmar County.
