i-8b579d555a752dd6-0	Madam President, I would like A great cloud of xenophobia, intolerance and anti-Semitism is rising up in the sky. There are very unpleasant currents coming up to the surface. In country after country, Jews are subjected to persecution, harassment and violence. We have seen horrendous terrorist attacks, where attacks on our open society go hand in hand with attacks on Jews. And we are far from spared in Sweden, which has become even more evident in recent weeks. In Sweden, Jews live under increasingly harsh anti-Semitic pressure. In Sweden, Jews are used as scolding words, and fear spreads on our streets. In Malmö, 200 people chanted on December 8th that we will shoot the Jews. The evening after, December 9, masked men threw molotov cocktails at a building at the synagogue in Gothenburg, where Jewish youths had a feast. The Christian Democrats have asked for this debate. It is an urgent debate on how to push back the ugly face of anti-Semitism. I expect strong rejections in this debate but also concrete political proposals. It is not just words that are required. Action is required. I also expect parties in the Swedish Parliament to accept their responsibility to keep their own doors clean. Cooperation and support for anti-Semitic organisations gives legitimacy to and fertilises anti-Semitism, which is totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like Anti-Semitism is despicable. We recognize it, we hate it and we will always fight it.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-5	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats and Andreas Carlson for this urgent debate. It is good that we can have it so soon after these events occurred. We have seen a series of recent anti-Semitic attacks and attacks in Sweden, mentioned earlier, for example, a demonstration in Malmö just over a week ago where it was chanted that Jews should be killed. The following Saturday it was the synagogue in Gothenburg that was subjected to an arson attempt. Some day later, remnants of combustible material were found at the Jewish chapel in Malmö, also there traces of an attack. These attacks are despicable and totally unacceptable. Jews have lived in Sweden for hundreds of years. They are part of Sweden. Let it therefore be clear, once and for all and unambiguously said: Anyone who attacks Jews in Sweden, it attacks Sweden. The police in Malmö and Gothenburg are now working fully to identify the perpetrators and prosecute them. They have acted quickly and resolutely, and in Gothenburg they were able to make arrests at night. Now there are two people in custody suspected of serious arson, a crime that gives at least six years in prison and, in fact, up to life imprisonment. They refuse to commit crimes and, of course, we should not anticipate or interfere in the investigation. But for us it is important that law enforcement authorities have the resources and tools they need to investigate this type of crime. Hate against Jews is something that occurs in all three violent extreme political environments. There is, of course, in the Nazi circles, headed by the NMR, where anti-Semitism is a fundamental part of ideology. We know that their activity has increased in recent years, with demonstrations and manifestations. Anti-Semitism also exists in Islamic circles and environments, and we know that Jews have been the target of Islamic terrorist acts in Europe. But anti-Semitism is also found in some left-wing radical circles, where criticism of Israel and support for Palestine can turn into hatred of Jews. We must be crystal clear about this: we must be equally strong in condemning anti-Semitism, no matter where it comes from. We will react strongly when it comes from the right, from Nazi circles on the streets or from the right-wing trolls on the net. We will react equally strongly when it comes from the Muslim side, and in this respect let me add that my view is that Sweden has been given sanctuary, so it is also our rules that apply. Then I demand that we contribute to relaxation and conflict resolution – not to increased tensions between different groups. The level of conflict in the Middle East cannot be brought here. You have to contribute to relaxation. We will react equally strongly if it comes from left-wing radicals. Criticism against Israel is one thing; it must be brought forward, for it is justified in many respects. But no one can hold Swedish Jews responsible for the policy of Israel. It's a completely preposterous thought. We must therefore be equally strong in our condemnation of anti-Semitism, no matter where it comes from. There's no room here for any excuses or any ifs or buts. All that matters here is plain language. Madam President, I would like We have done a lot to increase security and combat violent extremism in these years. We have good cooperation with the Jewish congregations and organizations, and this will continue. Among other things, we have contributed to concrete safety-enhancing measures. What exactly do I not want to go into, but we will increase that grant from next year by another SEK 22 million. It's the Department of Culture that handles that money. From the Justice Department's side, of course, I would like to mention the major reinforcement of the police force that we are now doing with an additional EUR 2 billion from next year, which is the largest resource addition to the police in 20 years. We shall also see the fight against this type of crime as part of our anti-terrorism strategy. We have criminalised terrorist travel, we have extended the criminalisation of terrorist financing, we have banned the reception of terrorist training, and soon we will also have in place a criminalisation of participation and association with terrorist organisations. We have greatly strengthened the Swedish Security Service during these years, and from the turn of the year an additional SEK 23 million will be available to improve Säpo's capacity. We must also have access to more secret means of coercion, such as more telephone tapping and the possibility of secret data reading, in order to detect and map violent extreme circles. In addition, at the turn of the year, at the Council on Crime Prevention, a permanent national centre against violent extremism is being formed. This centre will have a leading role in prevention and will be able to provide concrete support to those actors working locally to combat, for example, the recruitment of young people into violent radical environments. All this we do, Madam President. I know that there will certainly be reason to consider further measures. But the message from here must be crystal clear: Jews have the right to feel safe in Sweden, and we all have a duty to do everything we can to ensure this.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-22	Madam President, I would like I would also like to begin by thanking the Christian Democrats and Andreas Carlson for the initiative for this debate on anti-Semitism, although I wish we did not need it. But fa ktum is that anti-Semitism has once again gained new ground in Sweden. The situation of the nation's Jews is unreasonable. No one should have to feel fear or worry about carrying the David Star in town, visiting the synagogue or other Jewish meeting places. It is a disgrace to our democratic society that we cannot guarantee people's safety in Sweden. Me and other Moderates participated in this weekend's Kippa walk in Malmö to show our solidarity with Malmö and Sweden's vulnerable Jews. The attacks of recent weeks are abominable, while the violent Jewish hatred is not a new phenomenon. The destruction of 6 million Jews – the most extensive genocide humanity has seen – is, of course, the most extreme expression of this. But anti-Semitism is also a real social threat even today. These may be activities that need to be cancelled because safety cannot be guaranteed or Jewish preschools that need bulletproof glass for the children to be safe. Madam President, I would like Jews, like everyone else in Sweden, have the right to live their lives without fear and fear. It's basically about freedom. There are three things I would like to highlight in particular in the debate here today. The first is the importance of standing up to those who want to challenge our democratic society. The second is that knowledge of anti-Semitism must be increased. The third is the role of the judiciary. Today, hatred of Jews comes from many different directions – extremism, terrorism, racism, Islamism, Nazism and anti-Semitism. Just as the threat to Jews increased after the conflict in the Gaza Strip at the end of 2008, Israel – the Palestine conflict risks further increasing vulnerability. Then, just as now, synagogues and places that should be sacred places for all people, regardless of religion, were desecrated and desecrated. When actions like these are committed, it is an indication that society is not doing well. We all have a responsibility to defend our democracy and not to be silent but to dare to speak out and take away the debate when opinions are spread that run counter to our fundamental values. Not least on these issues, strong and clear opposition is required in which we raise our voices and show what values we stand for. Freedom of expression does not mean freedom from being criticized for its undemocratic views. Madam President, I would like The anti-Semitism attacks in France and Copenhagen in 2015 show that anti-Semitism is a threat that must be taken seriously. We need to be better at spreading knowledge of anti-Semitism and the prejudices on which anti-Semitism is based. If there is no knowledge of the legislation on hate crime and these crimes are deemed to be serious, it can lead to those who are victims of hate crime choosing not to report. Increased knowledge of hate crimes is required in those who are victims of crime, but also in those who violate others in words and with actions. It is important to work proactively to stand up for our fundamental rights and freedoms, and to start early work on values. The school has an important task in involving young people in discussions on attitudes and democratic values. Many people have also come to Sweden from countries where anti-Semitism is more, much more, widespread than it is in our country. The Migration Agency, which for many people is the first government contact in Sweden, should inform about hate crimes and that it is criminal in Sweden to express oneself in certain ways. Madam President, I would like Only 4 percent of the anti-Semitic hate crimes reported in 2015 were cleared up. These are crimes aimed at harming and hurting other people and crimes that threaten our democratic society. In Sweden, everyone's equal value is fundamental, and everyone, regardless of religion or ethnicity, must be guaranteed their security and security. It is therefore shameful that we cannot guarantee the safety of our fellow citizens in our country. Major efforts have been made on the security of Jewish meeting places, but they must also be evaluated, and the security situation must be continuously monitored. The police must have sufficient conditions and resources to protect vulnerable Jews. The rule of law must now prove to those who commit hate crimes that we will do everything to ensure that Jews are safe in Sweden. Threats, threats of violence or violence should not be able to silence or prevent people from living their lives as they wish. Those who chanted their Jewish hatred in Malmö and those who attacked the synagogue in Gothenburg will be held responsible. The state of law, our state, Sweden, must stand strong against anti-Semitism.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-33	Madam President, I would like I would also like to start by expressing my warm thanks to the Christian Democrats for the initiative for this important debate. We have announced intifada from Malmö. We want our freedom back, and we're gonna shoot the Jews. So it sounded, according to Swedish Radio's report, in Malmö when 200 participants gathered during a demonstration at Möllevångstorget on Friday 8 December, in Sweden 2017. It's a grotesque statement. These are echoes from a time when man displayed his very worst aspects. These are expressions that do not belong in a democratic rule of law. That same weekend it continued with further violations and further threats and violence against the Jewish population. On Saturday, the day after the demonstration in Malmö, a number of people threw Molotov cocktails at the synagogue in Gothenburg, where about 20 young people had gathered to have a party. It could have ended up much worse than it did. On Monday, combustible material was found outside the Jewish congregation premises in Malmö. It seems to be getting worse and worse. This is what the chairman of the Jewish congregation in Malmö expressed himself in an interview in southern Sweden, referring to the threats and violence suffered by the 20 000 Jews living in Sweden every day. And the signals are clear. More and more Jews are feeling anxiety and fear. They avoid wearing a david star or otherwise expressing their religious affiliation. Teachers are afraid to tell that they are Jews and testify to hatred among the students. In Malmö, the nest of anti-Semitism, this is commonplace. The reactions after last weekend have been then, with sharp condemnation from the political side. That's good. Nevertheless, it must be recalled that the problem is far from new. The attacks on the Jewish population have been going on for a long time. Synagogues have been vandalized. Threats and violence against individuals occur. It's all gone in waves. It's been strong, and it's gone. But it's been going on for a very long time. Anti-Semitism has flourished in Sweden for a long time much because of the irresponsible migration policy that left- and right-wing governments have conducted for decades. This policy has helped us to have parallel societies with different norms and values than those that characterise Swedish society in general. Anyone who does not see the link between the increasing anti-Semitism and mass immigration from the Middle East should live in a fairly isolated world. In fact, ten years ago the Living History Forum published a number of reports which pointed to the link between population growth from the Middle East and the increasing anti-Semitism. In the study Antisemitic attitudes and performances in Sweden from 2006, 39 percent of those surveyed who defined themselves as Muslims showed a systematic anti-Semitic attitude. It was almost eight times more than the population in general. In another 2009 attitude survey, this time conducted among 4,700 high - school youths, 55 percent of Muslim students had a negative attitude toward Jews. And this is not only limited to Sweden. Reports and studies from Norway and Denmark, for example, show the same pattern. This is, of course, an expression of all the conflicts that exist in the Middle East and North Africa. They're being taken to the new country. Then we have an obligation to indicate that here we are making a difference between the thing and the person. Here we cannot put the state of Israel on the same footing as what it does and the Jewish people. Despite the fact that the signals have now existed for a long time, the political establishment – you other political parties in this House – has chosen to put your heads in the sand. As soon as there is talk of the causes of increasing anti-Semitism, you have chosen to shift the focus to let it be about Islamophobia or racism. It's like political blindfolds are an obligatorium for all of you. You have not dealt with the parallel structures. Instead, you have pointed fingers at those who have described reality. Every time anti-Semitism flares up, you condemn and talk about action. Credibility is not your strong suit. Worst thing is on the left. Here, a one-sided and unbiased Palestinian policy has diluted prejudice against the state of Israel and thus indirectly against the Jewish population. Councillors have marched in protests against Israel where anti-Semitic slogans have hailed. Red flags have waved where demonstrations have degenerated. There is much talk of condemnation and the need to act. But where are you now, you antiracists who are otherwise always so loud? And where in Sweden are church bells ringing to show sympathy for the vulnerable Jewish population?
i-8b579d555a752dd6-42	Madam President, I would like I would also like to begin by thanking the Christian Democrats for the initiative for this current debate on anti-Semitism. The issue is indeed highly topical and requires us to work hard for a change in society. Earlier this autumn, in connection with the book fair, the Nazis marched not far from the synagogue in Gothenburg. Now, the last time, a demonstration broke out against Trumps's decision to move the US Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, to the fact that crowds were hating the Malmö Jews, just as if they had any responsibility for Israel's politics or Trumps's actions. Attacks have since also taken place against synagogues and chapels. This is despicable. Equally despicable is what is constantly going on but which does not give the same headlines, which have to do with Jews who do not dare to wear or display religious symbols for fear of threats or violence. It is incredibly painful that we have not come any further. The existence of anti-Semitism both in neo-Nazi circles and among critics of the policy of the state of Israel is a social failure. The fact that persons are considered to be responsible for the actions of States or groups solely because they have the same faith or origin is totally unreasonable. Malmö's Jews are just as little responsible for Israeli politics as Malmö's Muslims are responsible for Saudi Arabia's. I would like to quote my party colleague Bassem Nasr, Palestinian friend and anti-racist, who has long criticised the widespread anti-Semitism. On a manifestation against anti-Semitism in connection with the Kippa walk in Malmö this weekend he said: When you set yourself up as an anti-racist, you commit it. Then you have to raise your voice every time racism shows its ugly face... no matter which group stands for hatred. The only anti-racism worthy of its name is the consistent one. It is therefore self-evident for me to fight anti-Semitism within the Palestinian movement. At the moment, civil society is making many good efforts. This is welcome, and this work must be strengthened. We're gonna turn the megaphones out of the grip of the hate preachers. We will direct the light of knowledge to anti-Semitic conspiracy theories. We're not going to let the anti-Semitic internet play in the heat. It must be clear, the democratic right to fight for a free Palestine is never, ever, compatible with anti-Semitism. ..................................................... Hatred and threats must never be accepted. It is important that the terrible statements that were scanned during the demonstration in Malmö and subsequent acts are followed up and that the guilty are prosecuted if possible. In addition, work on standards, education and attitudes is very important. I am very pleased that this is a priority for the government in all areas. In November 2016, the Government decided on a national plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime in Sweden. The plan covers all forms of racism, including anti-Semitism. On 9 November this year, the government also commissioned the Crime Prevention Council to conduct an in-depth study of anti-Semitic hate crimes. In the study, Brå will highlight the nature of anti-Semitic hate crime, with a focus on perpetrators, in order to gain improved knowledge in order to strengthen preventive work. In addition, the 2018 budget provides a new support scheme for security-enhancing measures for civil society's ability to continue to disseminate knowledge, mobilise and strengthen human rights capacity and safeguard democracy. The Government has commissioned the law of the Court of Appeal Johan Sjöö to submit proposals for a regulation for the allocation of state grants for security-enhancing measures. The assignment will be reported on January 12, 2018, i.e. very soon. This broadens the support that already exists for security-enhancing measures among faiths to a wider circle, so that non-confessional activities that are under threat are also eligible for support. This applies, for example, to activities run by non - denominational Jewish associations. Special funds are made available to support the safety work of schools that have a particular threat to them. Special funds are also added to enable remembrance trips to the Holocaust's memorial sites. It is very important that work on these issues is continued and intensified. There is no room for hatred and division in Sweden. Cohesion and understanding are the way forward.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-56	Madam President, I would like Racism is one of the most stupid things you can do. For some reason you find it reasonable to feel pride in something you have in no way accomplished yourself and at the same time disrespected or even hate people you have never met. All racism is reprehensible – a poison that weakens the social body, hinders positive development and destroys us all. Of course, it is especially serious for the victim. Antisemitism is a particularly harmful form, since it attacks from two sides. Generally, racism is based on an alleged inferiority of the victim. This is also the case with anti-Semitism, but at the same time myths and conspiracy theories about political and economic power that Jews are alleged to have and allegedly used in an evil way are spreading. History has also, through catastrophic times, demonstrated the terrible consequences of this cryptographic racism – or precisely anti-Semitism. We have reached a breaking point in Sweden where we must now put an end to unacceptable developments. We cannot have a reality where people are persecuted, threatened, and subjected to crime because of their religion or origin — sometimes serious crimes. Swedish anti-Semitism is hardly new. Through the centuries it has taken different forms, and in the 19th century nationalist and anti-Jewish organizations were formed. In 1915 the National League of Sweden was formed, where nationalist, Nazi and anti-Semitic ideas were developed and in which a platform for such ideas was built. It is easy to embellish history when we look at it afterwards, but it was in no way obvious in the Swedish debate that Jews and others who fled for their lives from Nazi ravages would have a sanctuary in Sweden. The opinion to welcome fleeing Jews in Sweden was hardly overwhelmingly positive. It was felt that integration would be too difficult, and the resistance to receiving these people on the run was often motivated by the view that there was a risk of anti-Semitic outbreaks in Sweden – as if it were any consolation for those who needed to flee. There were, of course, those who fought hard for the right of asylum and against the anti-Semitic currents that existed, and there were heroes like Raoul Wallenberg and Folke Bernadotte, but we must understand that there was a not insignificant anti-Semitism that was considered more or less roomy in our country. Since the Second World War, Swedish anti-Semitism has been smoldering. Sometimes it has flared up in temporary thrusts, but it has still felt as if it had been kept in check. It may now be something that is about to happen, and against it we must put our foot down with all the power available. One cannot talk about the increasing anti-Semitic expression without understanding that migration to Sweden from countries where anti-Semitism is more widespread has been affected. We must have openness to the outside world. We will welcome those who are forced to flee, and we can benefit enormously from all those who want to build a new life in Sweden. We in politics must do more to make society inclusive, but those who want to establish themselves here must also make an effort to understand how Swedish society works. You can't express anti-Semitic views without being seen as a nutcase. Coming from a culture where such opinions are common is no excuse. Understand it or not, but keeping contempt for Jews, or for that matter other communities, will have a price that is not worth paying. The price is social but – not to forget – also criminal. To incite Jews and other ethnic groups and to call for violence against them is highly illegal and provides imprisonment for both ordinary and serious crimes. For crimes for which prisons are presumed, the prosecutor can also demand expulsion for those who are not Swedish citizens. On behalf of the Center Party, we are prepared to tighten the penalties for this to be as clear as it needs to be. The Center Party has also pushed for not a single penny of taxpayers' money to go to organisations that spread violent and anti-democratic messages. This became part of the terrorist agreement concluded between the Alliance and the government parties. Of course, this does not prevent all lunatics from organising themselves, but at least they do not get the help of taxpayers to do so. We also do well to review the legislation, which originally came into being to limit the room for manoeuvre of totalitarian movements, and how it can be modernised and adapted to the reality we are living today. Madam President, I would like In this dark threat that we are debating today, a number of lights are also lit. Such lights are the initiatives now being taken to show support for the vulnerable and to speak out to those who expose them. Last week, I and many others took part in the Kippa walk from Raoul Wallenberg Square to the Riksdag House for a cross-party manifestation against hatred, threats and violence against Sweden's Jews. Not all but most parties were represented. Last Saturday there was a kippa hike in Malmö where many people participated. I know that many more similar manifestations are planned, and I know that many of Sweden's most important leaders and opinion leaders participate. In this weekend's newspapers it was possible to read how Christians, Muslims and Jews join forces and condemn hatred, threats and violence. Madam President, I would like It's time to stand down. It's time to speak up forcefully. I think it was Martin Luther King who said:.It is not the evil of evil people that is dangerous, but the silence of good people. ..................................................... When we see and hear expressions of unacceptable views, we must speak out. We must be careful about everything we lend ourselves to when we are involved in debates and other activities. We must take responsibility, and we must make demands when setting up and participating in various organisations' events. As legislators and elected representatives, we Members of Parliament must set a good example, and from some quarters I believe that there is a need for a real boost.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, the Christian Democrats, for this important debate! Madam President, I would like Jewish culture is an inalienable part of Sweden, of us. In many European countries, the country's Jewish minority has been driven out or destroyed, either as part of Nazi Germany's barbaric crimes against humanity in the form of the Russian pogroms or in other events in history. Sweden, unlike Denmark or Norway for example, has a Jewish national minority that was not sent to the Holocaust camp in Germany or forced to flee for their lives. It's important. In 1999, the Jewish group in Sweden gained the status of a national minority. The language and culture of national minorities are part of our common Swedish cultural heritage. It is a direct reflection of our ability to defend a society of coexistence and inclusion. Madam President, I would like In order to banish anti-Semitism from our future, we need to see how it is part of our history and our present. Therefore, we must also understand that anti-Semitism has a very special place and function as a gear in the racist engine. For more than a thousand years, Jews have been the constant second in Europe. By this I mean that the Jewish group in Europe has been excluded and separated from the majority communities and communities based solely on prejudice and hatred of the Jewish. What began as an anti-Semitism with religious protagonists during the Middle Ages in particular then developed into an anti-Semitism with racial biologic protagonists during the 19th century in particular. Therefore, anti-Semitism is also part of Swedish history. We see it in how Jews have been denied the same rights as others in the country until the mid 1800s. We see it in the Jewish pass and in the betrayal of the Jewish refugees, who were for far too long denied refuge in Sweden from the terror of the Holocaust. It is part of Swedish history that must be made visible and recognised. But anti-Semitism is also part of our present, and that is why we are here today. We see it with painful clarity in recent weeks' attacks on synagogues in Gothenburg and Malmö, and we see it when the Nazis march on the crystal night and Yom Kippur. Unfortunately, we also see examples of Jews being excluded from being part of Swedish here in the Swedish parliament. In an interview in DN, Speaker Björn Söder of the Swedish Democrats discussed who is Swedish and mentioned Jews and Sami as examples of groups that may be Swedish citizens but who, in his opinion, are not Swedes if they have not been assimilated. Other more everyday examples of how anti-Semitic thought figures have been created and supported can be found in media reporting and description of reality. It may be a very gross violation, as when Trumps's decision to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem in an article on SVT's website was explained by the fact that a Jewish lobby or influential Jewish donors had been behind the decision, or when Swedish Radio followed up the terrible attack on a synagogue in Copenhagen by asking what responsibility the Jews had for attacking them. Madam President, I would like Antisemitism has been different in different times. Jews have been accused of everything from betraying Jesus to being behind the Russian revolution, of economic domination, of being responsible for the Nine eleven, and of sending Muslims to Europe. Anti-Semitism takes the form that suits its time and context. In Europe, anti-Semitism is growing today in countries such as right-wing Hungary, where there is hardly a single refugee, and in Sweden, where now a lot of new Swedes have roots in countries with state-sanctioned anti-Semitism. We must therefore realise that anti-Semitism exists and has existed as a central gear in the racist engine, which can be activated in different ways by both the right and the left and by religious fundamentalists in different times and places. And what we know with certainty is that class divisions, injustice and inequality give those who want to use the racist engine for their own purposes the very best conditions. Our mission, Madam President, is to ensure that the racist machinery does not have a place in our future. Instead, our future must be driven by justice, equality, community and coexistence. And that means, Madam President, that we can never, never have forbearance or patience with anti-Semitism. This means that we must realise that anti-Semitism is about something else and much greater than a reaction to Israel – the Palestine conflict. It must be absolutely obvious that Jews in Sweden or in other parts of the world cannot be held accountable for the policy pursued by the Israeli Government. As part of the Left, I would like to emphasise in particular that it is a confusion which I and the Left Party do not accept. In my next speech, Madam President, I will talk more about what we need to do to achieve a better future together.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-91	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much to the Christian Democrats, who have taken this very important initiative for this debate today! Last week we were chanted in Arabic in Malmö. We're going to shoot the Jews. In Gothenburg, masked people with burning objects attacked a youth party in the synagogue. In Stockholm they shouted that Jews are monkeys and pigs. The Express told us a few years ago how students in Malmö formed speech choirs outside the classroom and shouted fucking Jew, fucking Jew at their teacher. At Jewish preschool in the same city, children play behind bulletproof glass. The Jewish congregations spend much of the budget on protecting their members. Especially after the terrorist attacks across Europe, many are afraid to visit their institutions and demonstrate their Jewish identity. The Jewish hatred is nothing new in Sweden. It's always been here. I have even suffered it myself, even though I have no Jewish background. In my 20 years of commitment to anti-Semitism, I have seen this hatred at close range. I've been attacked by masked syndicalists, who afterwards sent me press releases saying I'm a Zionist. I've arranged meetings where Palestinian activists have knocked down both LUF ombudsmen and Holocaust survivors. I've had to lead my 83-year-old grandmother away under the protection of police horses while the forces of law and order wrestled down stone-throwing extremists. Madam President, I would like There is broad support against anti-Semitism, the anti-Semitism that comes from the far right. This showed not least disgust with the Nazi march in Gothenburg last autumn. But when it comes to anti-Semitism from the left and, above all, from the Muslim and Islamist sides, politicians have not been as clear. But our society must maintain a zero tolerance to all anti-Semitism, not just that of the right-wing radical. In the Arab world, there has been systematic brainwashing for decades. Every generation has been taught from childhood that the Jews are wicked and dirty. Somar Al Naher was born in Syria. She described this in a very concrete and strong way in Expressen the other day: My childhood in the capital city of Damascus was marked by hatred and fear of Israel and Jews. At an early age, we children were taught never to be associated with Jewish culture. Jewish names, symbols, languages, all that breathed Jewishness were viewed as part of a Zionist world order. ..................................................... Further on, are the schools bad? It's the Jews' fault. Is health care in Syria bad? It's the Jews' fault. Is the money not enough? It's the Jews' fault. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Many people who have come to Sweden have lived in an anti-Semitic social climate throughout their childhood. That doesn't mean they're all anti-Semites. In fact, many hate their regimes, and that is why they have fled. They've seen through the propaganda. But it's far from everyone. Antisemitism can be countered back. But under current conditions of growing segregation, political abstinence and the lack of long-term broad work against radicalisation, Sweden will not be able to counter back anti-Semitism. The Swedish government and large parts of the left have for a long time stuck their heads in the sand. In addition, hateful moods have been set on fire against Jews. Probably the biggest demonstration organised by the Social Democrats in Malmö since the turn of the millennium was a protest meeting against Israeli tennis players. After the terrorist attack in Paris against a Jewish theatre and a kosheria, our Foreign Minister linked this in a SVT interview with the Palestinians' frustration over their situation. One has not had the ability to keep two thoughts in the head at the same time: that anti-Semitism can be found in groups that are themselves vulnerable and in need of help. This inability to call a shovel a shovel is a scandal and has been a contributing reason why Swedish Jews today ask themselves if Sweden really wants them here. Madam President, I would like After recent events, the Prime Minister has made a good statement. But so far, it's just words. We do not see any action on how to protect the security of Jews or how to combat anti-Semitic views in the longer term of those groups who have fled here because of war and vulnerability. In my second speech, I will return to the more concrete efforts needed to combat anti-Semitism. A number of the speakers here have said that Jews cannot be held accountable for Israel's policy. Israel has not decided to move the US Embassy to Jerusalem. It's an American decision by an American president. This is not an Israeli decision at all.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-107	Madam President, I would like The recent attacks and threats against Jews in Sweden are extremely serious. They are a threat to our entire democracy, our whole society, our freedom and our openness. But no one can be surprised. We know for a long time that Jewish congregations around Sweden have armored glass, security controls, guards and security cameras to protect themselves. The Jews are a national minority in Sweden, a self-evident group that has been in our country for hundreds of years, and it is a shame that this is the reality in which they are forced to live. In Malmö, the Jewish rabbi cannot go out on the street without the risk of being mocked, threatened or beaten. In many places people avoid wearing Jewish symbols publicly, and in recent years threats have increased. Let me quote Jakob Ringart, from the Holocaust Memorial in Parliament a few years ago: Have you all forgotten already? I was there. I can never forget. ..................................................... This was one of his last appearances before he passed away in 2014. Ringart was one of the survivors of the Holocaust who told of the terrible deed of Nazism. When the survivors are silenced, we must pass on the memory. We must resist injustice, intolerance, anti-Semitism and persecution wherever it is reminded. Ringart said the only place a Jew can feel safe is Israel. But there, too, Jews are constantly being shot at and condemned by the outside world. When the ugly face of anti-Semitism turns out, it is the existence of Israel and the Jews that is being called into question. We cannot stand indifferent to that. Nothing is as dangerous for democracy and human rights as indifference. Indifference eats us and our democratic society from within. It is indifference that creates room for evil, and evil always lurks on us. Let us not forget the legitimacy given to anti-Semitism and anti-Semites under a false flag of Israeli criticism. Let us not forget that Members of this House have participated in demonstrations in which anti-Semitism has flowed. Let me give a few examples: Ilmar Reepalu wanted Jews in Malmö to apologize for Israel's policy a few years ago. Hillevi Larsson received a prize with a map where the state of Israel was wiped out, and Marita Marita posed in the European Parliament with a picture depicting Marwan Marwan. Barghouti is a imprisoned Palestinian terrorist, convicted of multiple murders and attempted murder of civilian Israelis. In the Swedish Democrats, economic-political spokesperson Oscar Sjöstedt made a gross and distasteful joke about Jews. This is a disgrace. It fattens anti-Semitism and gives legitimacy to anti-Semitic forces. We can never accept the involvement of leading politicians in this. Racism against Jews is unique in that it is not just about prejudice, hatred and racism, but it is a way of understanding the world. Everywhere anti-Semitism can offer an explanation, and that is why it is extra disgusting. The Jewish minority in Sweden needs further protection. The safety of Jewish institutions cannot be a matter for the small Jewish congregations alone. Society must, financially but also personally, assume its responsibility for the security of Jewish institutions and Jews throughout Sweden. The Christian Democrats have proposed an extra effort with more funds to the religious communities for the protection of religious premises, We believe that synagogues and other Jewish buildings should be classified as protective objects. Madam President, I would like Safety must go hand in hand with education. Twenty years ago, the then government decided to distribute the book About This, please tell the country's high school students. The need for knowledge is now greater than ever, and new technologies provide new opportunities to spread this book again. Let's do it. It is high time to repeat this success. The Christian Democrats also think that Sweden needs a permanent exhibition about the Holocaust. It exists in many countries, and it should also be in Sweden. Anti-Semitic notions occur to a much greater extent in people with their roots in the Middle East and North Africa than in the rest of the population, as Fredrik Malm described in an excellent way. Questions about anti-Semitism must therefore become an integral part of the introduction to new arrivals. Anyone seeking protection in Sweden must understand that it is totally unacceptable to continue living out the conflicts they have left or fled from here. When a foreign citizen or asylum seeker is incited to racial discrimination, the question of expulsion should be examined to a greater extent than is currently being done. We also want to tighten the penalties for incitement to ethnic groups. These are some of the Christian Democrats' concrete proposals to increase the security of Jews in Sweden and get to the root of the problem. Anti-Semitism is despicable. We recognize it, we hate it and we will always fight it no matter where it comes from. We'll never shut up.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-124	Madam President, I would like There has been an interesting debate so far. In my first speech, I began by presenting the measures that we have taken – the security-enhancing measures, measures to strengthen the Security Service with both more money and with new legislation, the biggest effort on the police in 20 years. I would also have been able to add a review of the code of conduct and the law of order, which we are also about to develop in the aftermath of the Nazi march in Gothenburg. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question, Fredrik Malm. When we have discussed this, I have noted that the Liberals were, in fact, the only party that went against such a review of the law of incitement and of the law of order. I would just like to take this opportunity to ask whether this is still the case, or whether the Liberals are now also behind this line. It would be good to have some clarification on this. Crime prevention is part of this. But if we are to be able to deal with this issue in the long term, it is also about preventing crime and changing attitudes. You have to be clear from the start and work locally, and perhaps primarily aimed at young people about what attitudes we have. I remember very well when 20 years ago we started the big project around the Living History Forum. At that time I worked for Göran Persson, and I was an expert on these very issues. I remember very well the background, how we started this and how we reasoned at the time. It was a groundbreaking project, I must say. Andreas Carlson is absolutely right when he says it was a success. It was like that and it's like that. My view is that it has probably been extremely important in these years to make us better at preventing racism and anti-Semitism. I believe that this work now needs to be further intensified. As you know, we will invite you to a new international conference on the Holocaust in 2020, a conference to confirm and follow up the major conference that we held almost 20 years ago – in 2000. Until then, the years ahead offer a great opportunity to further strengthen our preventive measures. I think it is extremely important that Sweden takes advantage of the work we started 20 years ago and reinforces it further. Maybe right now it's more important than ever. I hear in the debate here that there are some who want to extend the conflicts, who want to create conflicts and who want to point the finger at other parties. I think we should refrain from this in this debate. I think most of us agree that there should be no blind spots here. We need to see the Nazi and the right-wing anti-Semitism. All parties must do so. Not only can one talk about one thing, but all parties must see it. At the same time, we must see Islamist anti-Semitism. So must all parties. We also need to see the problems that arise when criticism of Israel or Israel's policy in various cases – we are not talking about the move; we are talking, above all, about the old conflicts in terms of occupation and so on – turning into anti-Semitism. Then we must react equally strongly, no matter where this comes from. As I understand it, we have no fundamental differences of opinion on this. Let us therefore, Madam President, instead of pointing the finger at each other, seek conflict and exploit misunderstandings, try to seek a broad consensus in order to prevent and combat both racism and anti-Semitism.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-131	Madam President, I would like No matter where anti-Semitism comes from, it is forbidden in Sweden to incite, threaten and attack. Judehat from Middle Eastern immigrants is as reprehensible as Jewish hatred from Nazis in the Alme Valley. Not vigorously rejecting all anti-Semitic manifestations, no matter where they come from, is to stand on the wrong side of history. There is reason to worry that the government is not making a clear enough stand against the forces of darkness. The Green Party has repeatedly deviated from the zero tolerance that must apply to anti-democratic and undemocratic views and instead acted as passive spectators. I can take as an example the environmentalist Kamal al-al-Rifai, who last year invited preacher Salman al-al-Ouda to a gala in Malmö, despite the fact that al-al-Ouda represents both homophobic and anti-Semitic views. He is a pronounced Holocaust Denier who has called the Holocaust a myth of immense proportions. Nevertheless, there was no condemnation from the government. On this occasion, I had an interpellation debate with Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke when she said: It is not the government that tells associations and organisations who and who they invite. We don't want that kind of society, do we? I hope Members of Parliament will agree with me on this. This must also be seen in the light of the fact that the number of violent extremists in Sweden is no longer counted in the hundreds, but in the thousands. Then the fight must be intensified and the government must show that it is not passive on this issue but takes the lead. We must also be consistent in our opposition to ideologies, to religions and to movements that do not want to recognise the equal value of all people. Madam President, I would like Examples have also emerged where public funds have been paid out to an organisation that has invited so-called hate preachers, despite block-crossing agreements that public funds should not be used to finance the spread of anti-democratic and violent messages. One problem today is that it is not possible to recover public funds that are in danger of being used, directly or indirectly, to promote or support anti-democratic activities. Here the government should take an initiative for a change of law. It is well known that Saudi Arabia and Saudi Arabia provide financial support for Muslim activities, such as mosques, in various parts of the world. In 2011, Saudi money was reported to finance Gothenburg's new mosque, which cost SEK 67 million. Saudi Arabia has since the 1970s been a global missionary of Salafism, which is the most literal variant of Islam. Contributing money to mosque building is a way of spreading Salafism, which neither recognizes the rights of women, LGBT people, of people who follow the Shiite orientation of Islam, nor of people who believe that anti-Semitism is actually a terrible thing. Here is another example where we need to do more to stand up for our democratic values. Salafism's values do not belong in Sweden, and it is unfortunate that it is being spread with the support of considerable Saudi resources. It weakens the good Muslim forces who believe in the equal value of all people and in respect for other religions. We must therefore review how many Swedish religions receive foreign contributions and what amounts, purposes and conditions occur. It is not enough to stop at words and condemn these attacks. We as politicians and fellow human beings also have a responsibility to act for real, and we must agree on concrete measures to ensure everyone's safety in Sweden.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-139	Madam President, I would like For most of the postwar period, there have been good opportunities to share in personal accounts of the persecution of Jews during World War II. We who grew up and went to school in the 1970s and 1980s have strong memories of when survivors from the extermination camps visited us in the classrooms to tell us about all the abuses. It became intimate and personal, and the moving stories left a deep mark on all of us. But those who can tell about these events are getting fewer and fewer each year. This was one of the reasons for the offensive effort that, among others, the Minister of Justice spoke of, If you will tell me, which began in the late 1990s. With an extensive effort of enlightenment, a new generation would be able to share all these stories. Never forgetting was an important starting point. I believe that now is the time to move from words to action. A new information material is needed in schools that highlights anti-Semitism, not only during the Nazi regime in Germany, but also under the Communist regimes of the old Eastern states and the systematic anti-Semitism taking place in North Africa and the Middle East. At the same time, anti-Semitism cannot be concealed in general terms such as anti-racism, as we have heard here from certain speakers. Antisemitism is a unique phenomenon. It is a hatred based on collective guilt, and it should not be belittled or relativised. The Swedish Democrats have long proposed strong measures to strengthen knowledge of the values that are fundamental to Swedish society. Anyone who wants to become part of our country must learn the language, our customs, traditions and, above all, values. Anyone who wants to practice threats and violence against Jews, for example, does not have to do so in Sweden. The parallel society must be brought to an end. Here we must be resolute and present concrete proposals. But we must also, more forcefully than we have done so far, mark against both Nazis and left-wing radicals. Your Sweden is not our Sweden. We strongly reject it. Your anti-Semitism is as weak as the anti-Semitism of Islamists. The Swedish democrats also guard the civil courage. Every one of us who rejects anti-Semitism must very clearly mark and act on any such expression. The demands on principals and teachers to act must be tightened up. Any violation shall be notified. More anti-Semitic hate crimes need to be cleared up. The police's mission needs to be clarified. We also believe that public contributions to organisations that, for example, invite anti-Semitic speakers or organise demonstrations with anti-Semitic elements should be withdrawn. We are opposed to the funding of religious communities, and we are in favour of a review of liability issues in demonstrations. Synagogues must be monitored, and we are therefore prepared to resort to unconventional methods to ensure this. There are good examples in our neighbourhood, not least in Denmark. But the government must also shift its focus on the question of Palestine and examine itself. It is a heavy responsibility to convey a political message that does not fuel conflict and does not fuel anti-Semitic currents. Finally, the political establishment must realise that migration policy has had negative consequences to date. Then we're a good way to go.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-149	Madam President, I would like There is, of course, much that needs to be done in the future to combat all forms of racism, including anti-Semitism, in Sweden. As Morgan Johansson pointed out, the government has announced that an international conference will be held in 2020, 20 years after the Stockholm International Forum, on the Holocaust in honour of its victims. The Living History Forum is also tasked with carrying out a comprehensive educational effort on various forms of racism in history and today, which clearly includes anti-Semitism. The agency is now developing educational material on various forms of racism and carrying out further training of, among other things, school staff, police employees, the Public Employment Service and social services. Since last year, the Agency for Youth and Civil Society has received an increase in funds to significantly increase the distribution of state grants annually until 2020 to promote activities specifically against the various forms of racism. The Swedish Research Council also annually allocates specific funds to strengthen research in the field of racism from 2016 onwards, and the Swedish Media Council is tasked with carrying out the No Hate Speech Movement campaign in order to raise awareness of racism and similar forms of hostility on the internet among children and young people. It shall also aim to strengthen children's and young people's ability to use their freedom of expression and respect human rights and gender equality and stimulate critical thinking in the use of social media. All of this is of course incredibly important to strengthen the ability of society as a whole to resist hostile messages. I am also very pleased with the great commitment of the Minister for Culture and Democracy to anti-racism. Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke regularly consults the Jewish minority and has this issue very high on the agenda. She also participated in this weekend's Kippa walk in Malmö and argued that there should be zero tolerance to intolerance. In view of what Tobias Billström mentioned earlier in the debate, I take it as pure ignorance or ignorance that he did not mention that the criticised environmental party member was also disfellowshipped a short time after the invitation was made. Of course, we must act clearly against intolerant behaviour. This year, 2017, it is almost a hundred years since democracy was introduced in Sweden and women and men got equal and universal suffrage. Democracy, however, is not just about voting. It is also about the equal value of people, about being who you want to be without being persecuted and about believing in a god or a religion or not. During the 1930s and 1940s, the Jews of Europe were persecuted in the worst way history has shown. It was a systematic killing in what came to be called the Holocaust. Today, there are only a few survivors left. Since there are forces that want to change history and deny that the Holocaust has taken place, we democrats must continue to remind our children and others who come after us of history. It is the only way to ensure or work that something like this will never happen again.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-158	Madam President, I would like In my opening speech, I concluded by lifting our responsibilities as rulers. In this speech, I would like to give some examples of when that responsibility has not been taken on board. I'm sure there are times when this isn't easy. As political leaders, however, we must, in fact, show leadership precisely when it comes to marking against anti-Semitism. The parties should be open to people to get involved, and we need new people who are prepared to work for what we believe in together. With transparency there are also risks, and I think that all parties have been involved that people with very strange opinions for some reason wanted to get involved. I remember that we had a person who was proposed to stand on one of our lists, far down, certainly, but still, who later turned out to have a set of very strange ideas about the state of things and including the Holocaust. Fortunately, this was quickly discovered and that person was removed from the list and was also allowed to leave the party. That's how decent parties have to work. Some who, on the contrary, seem to have made it a political business idea to let the madmen of any kind take their place on their lists and give them democratic platforms for anti-democratic ideas are the Swedish Democrats. The list can be made long, but I think the measure must be considered to be heaped when a person who, by being elected on a Swedish Democratic mandate here in the Swedish Parliament, arranges a seminar inviting Karl-Olov-Arnstberg Arnstberg as keynote speaker – a person who is repeatedly hailed by the right-wing Nordfront for his work in highlighting the Jewish question. The chairman of the Swedish Democrats in Gothenburg signs revealed pseudonyms on the online forum such terrible things about Jews that I can't reproduce them here. That's the worst thing you can think of. It is the homage of vile crimes committed by the Nazis during World War II and expressed admiration for named Nazi war criminals. The Swedish democrats' economic-political spokesperson, Oscar Sjöstedt, was revealed on a video recording drawing very gross and horribly offensive jokes about Jews in concentration camps. The Speaker of the Swedish Democrats, Björn Söder, said in 2014 that for example Sami and Jews cannot be Swedish. Of course, in addition to the perhaps somewhat questionable view of being fit to decide this, it is quite wrong in substance. Jews have lived in Sweden since at least the 16th century. Skåne did not become Swedish until a hundred years later, perhaps one can add. The Swedish Democrats may be the worst in terms of the quality of these violations, but the Social Democrats play a high role in the league in terms of quantity. That many of the stories we hear about how Jews feel threatened come from Malmö is probably no coincidence. Malmö was led for many years by Social Democrat Ilmar Reepalu, who repeatedly in various statements showed that he did not take the concerns of the Jewish population seriously. In an infamous article in the British Telegraph, Reepalu first dismisses any attacks on Malmö Jews at all. He then explains that if any of these attacks, which do not happen, do occur, they do so because of Israel's actions. This acute difficulty in keeping two thoughts in your head at the same time affects other parts of the Social Democracy as well. In 2009, a demonstration was held against Israel, where the flags of Hizbollah and Hamas were numerous. There were also flags with swastikas. That event lent some of the workers' party the greatest support to the Social Democrats. The party leader Mona Sahlin was present, as well as heavyweights like Lars Stjernkvist and Wanja-Lundby-Lundby Wedin and many more. I am in no way saying that any of these agree with anti-Semitic views. But they have not taken on the responsibility that I believe political leaders must take in terms of the organisations, events and movements we support, directly or indirectly. This is why we need a new leadership for Sweden.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-169	Madam President, I would like No Jew in Sweden should have to hide the davids star under the sweater, opt out of the kippa or feel fear of gathering in the Jewish community, school or synagogue. No human being in our country should have to hide his faith, his culture or his disposition. In order to counter back anti-Semitism, it takes work on several levels. Firstly – and this is the most urgent – it is important to protect both Jews and Jewish places from hatred and terror. In the budget, the Left Party and the Government have increased security promotion measures and made the biggest effort on the police in 20 years. We see that the police also need more knowledge of both religion and festivals and symbolicly important places in order to identify crimes and to be able to give proper demonstration permits. Far too few hate crimes lead to prosecution, Madam President. The Left Party wants to give higher priority to hate crimes. And we want hate crimes to have their own code. We believe that the government should set up an investigation in order to identify deficiencies in the investigation work and propose measures to identify more suspected hate crimes and lead to prosecution and conviction. Secondly, we need to think carefully about legislation so that we can ensure that incitement and terror against ethnic groups are not possible. The escalation of Nazi activity in recent years shows that the Jewish is the target again, even here. It is no coincidence that the Nazis march near synagogues or at Jewish festivals. These are organizations such as the Nordic Resistance, which denies the Holocaust, believes in a Jewish world conspiracy and wants to overthrow democracy through revolution. People from this movement are convicted of bombing in Gothenburg and have repeatedly attacked Pride in recent years, forced the Jewish association in Umeå to close down and have committed terrorist attacks against refugee homes and political opponents. However, even groups with disgusting opinions have freedom of assembly, Madam President. And that is central to our democracy. However, there is reason to consider whether minor changes to the law on incitement to ethnic groups may be needed to get to the very organized threatening message that a collection of marching Nazis expresses when they gather under their banners. And that is what is now being done in the review of the code of conduct. Thirdly – this is probably the hardest and most careful work, prevention – we need to find strategies to create a society that does not allow the exclusion and simplification of nationalism and racism of who we are to set the tone for our future. Sweden has not always been a homogeneous and conflict-free society. On the contrary, the Swedish welfare model has been worn out by struggles and contradictions in the aspirations of workers, women, funkis and minority movements for freedom and justice to encompass more of us. This insight means that we in here must take political responsibility for how we describe the community in Sweden and how we create opportunities for people who live here to be part of it. As anti-Semitism has long been part of Europe's history, it has also led us to expensive and painful insights that coexistence and diversity are the only way forward if we want to prevent future crimes against humanity. Therefore, we need to develop methods that help us to strengthen that insight – in general and small. School is the place that all children, without exception, have in common and must be the obvious hub of that work.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-180	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to combat anti-Semitism if you do not have knowledge of the phenomenon, how it is expressed, where it thrives and so on. A Jewish friend once told me that if he goes out on the Internet, he usually encounters an anti-Semitism from extreme right-hand areas or various conspiracy-theoretic environments. But if he goes on a manifestation in the streets and squares, he often encounters an anti-Semitism from the left, in the form of counter-demonstrations and other things that degenerate. And if he goes to the synagogue, at a service, for example, or to the parish house to celebrate a bar mitzvah, the greatest risk of encountering anything would come from some sort of radical extreme jihadist or terrorist doing something. It's quite interesting. In order to combat anti-Semitism on a broad scale, measures are needed to improve integration, as well as measures to strengthen the role of the school in this, and more people become critical thinking and can see through the types of conspiracies and other things that are spread through social media. In this context, I think it is important that we have teachers who have the strength and courage to stand up for the values all the time when you have students in the class who in different ways are moving in the extreme, away from democratic values. However, many teachers testify that it is more difficult today to talk about, for example, the Holocaust, especially in some parts of Sweden. It also requires principals to back up their teachers in this, and to be clear to parents and others as to what applies. Madam President, I would like Moreover, it is important that all established parties break with that part of the Palestinian movement that is not seeking a two-state solution. It is totally unreasonable for leading politicians to take part in meetings where, firstly, it is impossible to understand what is being said, because everything is being shouted in Arabic, and, secondly, it is being involved in inciting an aggressive atmosphere that is often deteriorating. The worst thing we have seen is what happened in Malmö, when they vandalized and broke half the inner city because Israel would play tennis in Malmö. But there are many other examples of this. Some previous speakers have also raised a number of points. I'm so sorry. I have no intention of polemizing. I am simply clarifying what is a fact in Sweden. This is a big problem in the left, and it has been for a long time. A lot of people with left-wing backgrounds have been clear in the debate about the existence of those problems. It's a little strange. This does not mean that anti-Semitism would be greater within the left than elsewhere. Of course it's not like that. The problem, however, is that many in the left have extremely high tail movements in their anti-racist profile and claim to be more skilled than everyone else in seeing racist structures. But the very anti-Semitic structures seem to be blind to. Of course it's a concern. If we are to have a broad political front against anti-Semitism, we need a strong left.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-187	Madam President, I would like Anti-Semitism is unique because it has a deep foundation in Islamist extremism as well as left-wing extremism and right-wing extremism. When it comes to combating anti-Semitism that comes from Nazi circles, we all show our disgust for the disgusting ideology. There are government agencies tasked with informing about its crimes and every school teaches Nazism. While we continue to fight with all our might against Nazism, which seems to be on the way to organisational progress in Sweden, we must also combat anti-Semitism from left-wing extremists and Islamist extremists. In 2005, the Living History Forum conducted a study on anti-Semitic attitudes in Sweden. It was found that 39 percent of those who designate themselves as Muslims had a systematic anti-Semitic attitude compared to a total of 5 percent. We know that anti-Semitism is a deeply rooted ideology in many countries in the Middle East. We must take it very seriously and be clear about the values that apply in Sweden. A follow-up to the Living History Forum on anti-Semitic attitudes is needed. We need to get information and education about anti-Semitism already in new arrivals' introduction packages and introduction programs. Within the framework of the Zikaron Association, third generation survivors travel around the country to tell about the horrors that struck their grandparents during the Holocaust. In schools in remote areas, it is not uncommon for access to be denied because security cannot be guaranteed. This is totally unacceptable. Teaching about the Holocaust must be mandatory for everyone. In Expressen, Somar Al Naher describes how her childhood in Damascus was characterized by anti-Semitism, how the Syrians – with her words – are brainwashed to hate Jews. She writes: Even at an early age, we children were taught never to be associated with Jewish culture. Jewish names, symbols, languages, all that breathed Jewishness were viewed as part of a Zionist world order. It was not something that I understood as a child, but I still learned to distinguish between the David Star and a.................................................................................................................................................................. Between evil Israel and good Syria. All the Jewish was done politically. ..................................................... This has consequences. It has consequences in Sweden now. It has the consequence that 200 people shout out an intifada and death threat against Jews from Malmö. It also has the consequence that there are people who heed their cries. We cannot explain away anti-Semitism in Sweden with either Benjamin Netanyahus or Donald Trumps's statements. In Sweden's Television, Trumps's decision to move the embassy was blamed on the Jewish lobby. Earlier this year, Emmanuel Macron was called Rothschildbankir. It is perhaps Sweden's most important media channel that reproduces the anti-Semitic conspiracy theories through shortcomings in the routine or the excuse used for the day. Anti-Semitism in Sweden stems from a long racist tradition that has been able to grow strong, and it must be brought to an end. We must uproot anti-Semitism. It should not have a place in Swedish society.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-201	Madam President, I would like I have reported on the law enforcement and prevention measures we have taken. This concerns the security-enhancing measures, the appropriation for the Security Service for increased control of violent extremism in various forms and the police efforts to build up hate crime groups that can work specifically against this type of crime. It is a review of the law and the law of order. I do not think I received an answer from Fredrik Malm about the attitude towards the hot and the law of order. Maria Ferm further developed preventive measures to intensify work on living history. The Living History Forum was established 20 years ago, and it has been successful, including with more remembrance trips to remember the Holocaust, so that more people can experience on site what the Holocaust was about. Then I notice in the debate that a couple of alliance representatives seem to be seeking conflict rather than consensus. I do not think that this debate benefits. One seems to be very eager to seek conflict also with the Social Democracy. I'm not picking up that glove. I have been active in the Social Democratic Party for over 30 years, so I know very well what values we stand for and what we have worked for in these years. On these issues, we have consistently promoted increased inter-group tension. On the question of Palestine, we have been crystal clear all these years. A two-state solution is needed, and we have worked on the ground with the organisations and parties involved in trying to achieve such a solution. We may have different views on Israel and the question of Palestine, but I think that this debate must be about anti-Semitism. It cannot prevent us from having different views on the issue in order to seek consensus on what needs to be done to reduce tensions and combat anti-Semitism. I do not think that this issue serves at the level of conflict that some of the parties want to show.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-207	Madam President, I would like It has been a good and thoughtful debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats for the initiative. I would like to say to Maria Ferm that in the debate on 17 May last year, Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke could not even condemn his party colleague who had invited Salman al-Ouda to Malmö, let alone his visit itself. Please read the minutes of 17 May! I just did it at rikslagen.se. Madam President, I would like I am angry, sad and disappointed when the Jewish congregation in Umeå has to close down because the police are unable to protect it. It is not the Jews'own responsibility to guarantee their safety. The most fundamental and fundamental duty of the state is to guarantee the safety of people. The rule of law has failed here. The costs of security cannot and should not be borne by individual congregations. Therefore, in the Moderates of our bu dget, we have a special investment of SEK 10 million annually to strengthen the faith communities' work with certainty. Much of the resources of the Jewish congregations should not have to go to security measures. Therefore, the Moderates want the state to take a greater share of this responsibility. It is the least we can do to improve the situation of the people of Jewish descent living in this country. Madam President, I would like We must stand strong together for those who are exposed to anti-Semitism. That should be the most important and clear message of the debate in this House today.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-213	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Center feels obliged to make the jump on the Swedish Democrats, not least because the Center itself is sitting in a very thin glass house on these issues. Let me leave that to you and thank the Christian Democrats for initiating this important debate. In the best of worlds it would probably also lead to concrete results, but given the experience of the inability of the other seven parties to deal with serious social problems, I have little hope that they will be mature either. We verige democrats will therefore continue our fight for our Swedish values to apply to everyone. We will continue to stand up for the most fundamental task of the rule of law to protect its citizens. This is very much true of the Jewish population. Jews in Sweden should not have to hide. Jews in Sweden should not feel the fear of walking in streets and squares. Synagogues should not have to be heavily guarded. Jewish schools and preschools should be open, just like all other schools and preschools. Jews shall dare to wear their David star. It is our duty to ensure this. Nevertheless, I hope somewhere that this debate will spread throughout society and that we will dare to stand up for our civil courage and say, speak up and react the next time we see anti-Semitism being reminded.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-218	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank all the participants for an important debate and for the great commitment and determination on these issues. We need to be clear and work consistently against all forms of racism. We need to devote resources to police work so that the crime committed can also be prosecuted so that guilty persons can be convicted. It also requires us to continue to strengthen preventive work, to ensure that we work towards intolerant attitudes in society and to carry out efforts to protect the Jewish minority, because there is a need for it. Safety-enhancing efforts will also be important in the future. Anti-Semitism is a poison in society, and we always need to work for openness and humanity to win over hate speech and restraint.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-221	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Christian Democrats very much for initiating this very important debate. It was good that we got this together so fast that we had to do this before Christmas and thus really show our positions. I believe that the key word for this in the debate and in many other places in society is spelled leadership. We suffer a little in Sweden because there has been a shift in the whole social model. We have moved from an authority society to a leadership society, but we have not been able to fully fill the new leadership society with leadership. To speak out clearly on issues such as those we are debating today is to show leadership. Political leadership is to take social problems seriously and propose wise policy proposals that solve the problems long-term and lasting and are consistent with the principles of the rule of law. They are not always the most opportune, but they are the ones that work and are sustainable in the long term. The opposite of political leadership is to try to use serious societal problems, such as anti-Semitism, to pursue their own political agenda that sometimes incite other groups. The opposite of political leadership is to let in the forces of hatred, more or less consciously, and perhaps count on their support. The opposite of political leadership is to look between your fingers with anti-democratic forces in order to win the sympathy and opinions of groups that you would not otherwise have met. In all this, we must be very careful to show leadership and set the good example that we, as legislators and Members, can set. With this, I would like to say hello to all my colleagues and to the President of the Council a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-227	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats for the debate. We have spoken today about the abominable and central gear of the racist engine of anti-Semitism. I have been glad that I have heard a unanimous condemnation. I hope that other days we can also talk about the other gears that are part of the engine. It is about Islamophobia, antiziganism and aphrophobia. We must understand that all these parts are part of exactly the same thing and that this engine should not have a place in our future. Nor should we generalise about Muslims or Roma and their rejection of things going on in the world. During the time that Fredrik Malm spoke, I came to think of something that I really too rarely tell. My grandfather was a resistance man in Denmark during the German occupation. He was a socialist and in many ways a brave man. But he was also anti-Semite. It led to a lifelong conflict with my father and with my entire family. This also led me to the realization that there is no anti-racism if it is not consistent. This makes me wonder a little when I hear Fredrik Malm's attacks on the left. This is what has led me to the party that I am in today. I would never accept an anti-racism that is not consistent. This means that I will continue to defend Jews' right to their faith and Muslim women's right to walk on a street without being mocked. This anti-racism I hope can be equally consistent for all of you in here. It's our responsibility.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-232	Madam President, I would like The phone rang at Hagge Geigert's house sometime in the 80's, but he wasn't home so the answering machine started. Then it sounded like this, we're gonna burn you, you fucking Jew bastard. God damn it, you disgusting little Jew bastard. The person who spoke in this was Anders Klarström. He was to establish the Swedish Democrats a few years later. This is quite interesting when we talk here about the importance of being united against anti-Semitism. My party has its roots in the voting rights movement. That's why we have a blue clint – Östergötland's landscape flower – as a party symbol. The Swedish democrats have their roots in the White Power movement. It's a completely different movement. It is a movement that has been on the wrong side of the border of democracy all these years. This is interesting, Madam President, because anti-Semitism runs like a red thread through the history of the party and until now. It is only a year since one was forced to exclude a person, who is also in the Riksdag, who thought that the Jews control the media and so on. If you are going to fight anti-Semitism, you have to understand that some people who claim that anti-Semitism is terrible in practice have no honest and sincere commitment to this. It's important to understand, I think. The Swedish Democrats use the fight against anti-Semitism as a way to distance themselves from their own Nazi past. This is the truth. I am very critical of the anti-Semitism that exists within the left, and I am at least as critical of the anti-Semitism that comes from right-wing radicals, in an extruding ultra-right that polarises our climate of discussion and makes this difficult. Combating anti-Semitism requires all democrats to show a common front against all forms of extremism.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-237	Madam President, I would like Right now the Jewish celebration of Hanukkah, the Festival of Light, is taking place. We know that an effort of goodness can brighten up in the darkness, stop evil and save a person's life. Whoever saves a life saves the whole world, according to the Talmud. In the Riksdag there is a memorial of Raoul Wallenberg. Every time I pass it, I am reminded of the heroic effort he made to save the lives of tens of thousands of Jews from the Holocaust. Raoul Wallenberg stood up for what was right, even though it brought great personal risks. When asked why he risked his life for his work, he replied: The civil courage of Wallenberg is impressive, and it has made him one of the most famous Swedes in the world. At the end of this debate, I would like to thank all those who have taken part. Let us be inspired by Wallenberg's selfless struggle for the Jews and for his fellow men. Let us fight anti-Semitism in Sweden with the same vigor and civil courage today, because anti-Semitism is abominable. We recognize it, we hate it and we will always fight it, no matter where it comes from. We'll never shut up. We have no other choice.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-240	Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to thank the Christian Democrats and Andreas Carlson for this initiative. It was a good thing that we were able to conduct the debate so quickly after the appalling events that are the background to the debate. Perhaps we are in a way at a political stage right now. It is over 70 years since World War II ended and all phases of the Holocaust were revealed and rolled up. Fewer and fewer people can now testify to what happened, and fewer and fewer people have seen with their own eyes what can happen when the forces of evil are unleashed in a country as happened in Germany, Italy and other countries in Europe at that time. I sat an afternoon just over a month ago with one of the people who can still testify to this, Fried Fried. She is now over 90 years old but is still extremely active. It's an amazing person. But as these people gradually disappear, it becomes even more important that we, who are now active, are able to carry on that particular struggle. It may be that after the war we were largely vaccinated against the forces of this evil and that this was always as a reminder. But now it may be such a situation where this vaccine starts to release. It will then be even more important for us to be clear in our condemnations of anti-Semitism and other racism, no matter where it comes from, and that we understand that democracy must be defended by every generation and that, to a large extent, it is now our turn to do just that.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-245	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me what the government's position is on Eastern relations and whether I intend to work for it to come into being, whether I, like the Council of Finance Ministers of the City of Stockholm, consider Eastern connections to be a state matter and how the government intends to use the remainder of the 2 billion earmarked for Eastern connections. On 31 August 2017, the Finnish Transport Administration submitted its proposal for a new national traffic law-crossing plan for the period 2018 – 2029 to the Government. The Swedish Transport Administration has proposed that Eastern connections be made with a so-called organised closure. The Swedish Transport Administration referred to the ongoing negotiations in the framework of the Swedish negotiation and that the object could thus get renewed topicality. As is well known, Sweden's hearing on 4 September 2017 announced that there were no conditions for a principle agreement on regional financing with the municipalities concerned and therefore suspended the negotiations. Eastern connections, however, are included in Trafikverket's plan proposal as part of our project – accessibility, environmental and capacity deficiencies in the transport system, which is a so-called identified deficiency, a concept that Trafikverket uses to alert the Government that it is likely to need to be addressed in connection with future revisions of national plans. If the Government shares the Swedish Transport Administration's assessment of identified deficiencies in its forthcoming decision, the Swedish Transport Administration will prioritise the development of in-depth data so that there will be more knowledge about the deficiencies and possible measures at the next planning round. Should the financial framework for named investments be increased by 10 percent, the Swedish Transport Administration proposes that SEK 2 billion be allocated to the Eastern Connection. The Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan has now been widely referred and is prepared in the usual way within the Government Office. What the final plan will look like, the government will decide on in the spring of 2018, and I therefore cannot today comment on individual objects.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-249	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Responsible policy requires a well-thought-out view of society and a long-term route to build Sweden stronger. Unfortunately, the government's traffic policy creates uncertainty when it should create predictability. Low cards lie, usually is an important decis to create trust. Unfortunately, this term began with the government's active breach of this when the construction of the Stockholm bypass was stopped, at a cost of over SEK 100 million for taxpayers and subsequent criticism from the Constitutional Committee against the management of the then Minister of State. Now we see that the same thing risks being repeated when the red-green-green rule in the City of Stockholm has said no to an eastern connection and that the Swedish Transport Agency is therefore lifting it out of the proposal for the next national plan, despite the fact that the alliance government allocated 2 billion for the road and only a quarter has been used. Stockholm is growing and so are traffic problems as a result. Over the past few weeks, a debate has been held on environmental zones. We Moderates see the need to change car traffic. But it is remarkable and somewhat double-sided that with the introduction of environmental zones, the government wants to limit car traffic in our cities and, at the same time, opposes the construction of a complete ring road around the city that could move traffic out of town. Sustainability and mobility need not be mutually exclusive, Madam President. A ring trail is a step towards a changed car ride with a long-term sustainability splash. The government said he didn't want to comment on individual items, and I can respect that. But let me ask the question: what is the Government's principle approach to ring roads around our cities as a way of reducing car traffic inside the city? We have seen many reports showing the potential to reduce congestion, traffic jams and thus also emissions in our cities, thanks, for example, to an eastern connection and a ring road around Stockholm. In other words, what is the Government's principle approach to ringways in general and to a ring road around Stockholm? And what is the government's position regarding the reasonableness of a single municipality, or rather a few parties in a municipality, having a veto right against a project that the whole of the rest of the region thinks is crucial for the development of the capital and where many other parts of the country also make the assessment that a ring road around Stockholm would put an end to the traffic attack that many people experience when they are going to cross Stockholm today?
i-8b579d555a752dd6-257	Madam President, I would like I will honestly say that I find the last statement by Jessica Rosencrantz very surprising. It's a serious question of local self-government in Sweden – when the democratically elected majority in Stockholm makes their decisions – to say: Is it reasonable that they have that view? In Sweden we have had municipal self-government for a long time, and we think it is obvious that municipalities should be able to have that view. That was a surprising statement. Then I got three new questions, but I'm going to stick to the questions that the interpellation concerns. I note that we are discussing the proposal of the Finnish Transport Administration. The government has not taken a stand. Jessica Rosencrantz repeatedly makes a connection in her speech between the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal and the government's proposal that is not valid. The proposal from Trafikverket is the Authority's assessment, and it is in the process of being consulted. The referral period has just ended, and at the moment we are preparing the question in the Government Office. There is no doubt, however, that, unlike when we had a moderate government, this government has a slightly more pleasant situation when it comes to looking at which projects are included in national plans. Because we have 100 billion more. We have more resources at our disposal for important infrastructure investments than the bourgeois government had, because then it chose to spend money on tax cuts instead of investments. We have more money for railway maintenance, and we have more money for investments – 100 billion more. When you then decide which priorities should be most valid in the Stockholm region, I think an important part is what there is regional involvement around. I have been careful when I have travelled around the country to see if the regions can gather around what are their main priorities. There you can see that there is a bit of sprawling in the metropolitan area. It is of course worrying because I think it will be useful for the Stockholmers if politicians can agree across the block. In this case, I would really like the Moderates to talk about a priority cross-connection between Södertörn and East or about the order of priority. For the government, there is no doubt. We spend 100 billion more on important infrastructure investments. We will listen to the referrals and, above all, we will take a position and make a proposal in time for spring 2018.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-263	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have the greatest respect for local self-government. I see how the reasoning goes with the local government in Stockholm City. It is very much a matter of thinking that this road is a state commitment, and then the question falls to the Government if he believes that the Eastern Connection and a ring road around Stockholm is a priority object. It is true that it is the Trafikverket's proposal that we have on the table, but we are all aware of and Trafikverket itself says that the reason that Eastern Connection has been removed from their proposal is that there is no local support for running the project at all or even co-financing it to any extent. At the same time, we see that the government's own colleagues in Nacka, Värmdö and many other municipalities in the region think that this is an important project. But my question, as I said, also becomes principled. I know that the Government does not usually comment on individual items, but it's a lot about putting cards down. Now the government beats its chest for having more money in the plan. I think that's very nice. This is usually the case as the years pass: more money is spent. The Moderates spend overall more money than the government. But if there is so much money to be spent on infrastructure, I wonder: Is not Eastern connectivity a priority object, even though it is in the current national plan? That's what you have to come back to. We have seen that Trafikverket has lifted out the object dealing with a new railway link between Gothenburg and Borås. This was also included in the Government's directive to the Finnish Transport Administration. This is no longer the case for cards, which has caused a great deal of outrage in that region. This happened despite the fact that the alliance government had set aside money for that project – to build a new railway there. Now we see that the 2 billion for Eastern connections are at risk of being lifted because the government's colleagues in the City of Stockholm no longer fully support this. Then my question is whether one can trust that the government in the coming plan will leave the objects in this plan. Then I shall ask about the principled approach, even if it is a tingling question: Does the Government think there is a reasonableness in trying to move car traffic out of our inner cities? Or will the government's only response to solving environmental problems in our cities be environmental zones, that is to say, banning cars from going there but not providing an alternative by leading traffic around the city? The latter is the policy of the Moderates. We believe that we can also go by car in the future, preferably with sustainable fuels and more electricity and biofuels. You can also move traffic from the city centre, from congestion and queues, to a ring road around the city. Let me ask the question again: Does the Government think that there is a principled advantage in building a ring road around the capital of Sweden? It is, in fact, the only capital in Europe that does not yet have an adequate ring road.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-271	Madam President, I would like It is also a capital city in Europe that has been lagging behind investment in key infrastructure and has missed the chance to make major investments, not least in metro and public transport systems, for a very long time. That is regrettable. Investments had to be made here for a long time. But when the Moderates rule in regions or in the realm, they refrain from investing in the necessary common infrastructure. Low card is a self-imposed saying. I note that this was not the case when the moderate government chose to remove Norrbotniabanan from what was then the Transport Agency's proposal. It will always be the case that the government has the opportunity to both lift in and lift out projects that will eventually be in a national plan. But I strive for predictability. It is a strength if we can have it in Sweden when it comes to large infrastructure projects. Eastern connections are special in this context. There were 2 billion people set aside here. The project as such costs 21 billion. It is important to know what sums we are actually talking about in this context. And I think it is important if we can agree regionally on the priorities that exist. Then it gets a little odd. The first study on Eastern Connection completed the Moderates in spring 2006. It was a bourgeois government in the kingdom for eight years. It took until 2013 before the Moderates raised the questions in what was called the Stockholm hearing. For seven years, neither did the Moderates lift a finger to highlight the priority of Eastern connection. Here are moderate wish lists, like a string of pearls, with important infrastructure investments. I'll have an interpellation debate on the South East Link later in the day. I can imagine that there will be other moderate Members of Parliament who have their wishful projects. But at the end of the day, everything is to be contained within a framework. There we have 100 billion more than there was during the time that the Moderates ruled the kingdom. I feel confident that during the consultation period we have received wise points of view. I appreciate regions where there is agreement and which are capable of prioritising important national projects. I think it is important that we manage to find good funding for the projects to be implemented. No one is more satisfied than me if they can also help us to manage accessibility, climate change, to strengthen competitiveness and to implement new technologies – it is important for the government. That must be the starting point when we are now investing in new ones. But, as I said, this is the Trafikverket proposal. We'll prepare it. I note that Moderates throughout the country have many views on many of the proposals. It will be exciting to see how to get the calculation together. I'm a little more careful about promising projects in different parts of the country. I want to ensure that we manage responsible funding. We are not going to leave behind large budget deficits in public finances. Otherwise, it is something that is usually a moderate tradition.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-278	Madam President, I would like Now it is not a new wish list, it is a genuine question of how the objects already in the current national plan will be managed. Of course, it is very gratifying that we have more money for infrastructure, both the government and the Moderates. The Moderates, as I said, spend more money overall than the government on infrastructure over the next twelve years. Then the question is, what are we going to do with that money? I see a worrying trend on the part of the government: that road investments are consistently described as something that will have to stand back in the coming plan. There we reply moderates that we match every penny the government spends on rail investments, but we also make greater efforts to ensure that the road network works. Unfortunately, this government has a tradition of opposing important road projects in the country. That is why they started their term of office by stopping Bypass Stockholm. It was because the Riksdag acted that we got started once more. Then the Government will have to overlook the fact that there is some concern in this House that important road areas are at risk of having to stand back. Do you think that the car will also be needed in the future, and at the same time do you want to protect greater sustainability? In that case it is believed that it is better that traffic goes around the city than through the city, with emissions and queues as a result. I note that we are probably not going to get a sharp answer from the Government today more than that: yes, there is a possibility of objects being lifted out. Then we must simply hope that in the next plan of the government there is room for important road investments. We must be able to invest in rail and road at the same time. It is necessary if the whole of Sweden is to stay together and function and if the city as well as rural areas are to be able to see jobs grow and growth increase. A ring road around the Helsinki Metropolitan Area is an important part of increasing sustainability and accessibility.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-284	Madam President, I would like I share the view that it is important that we make responsible investments in both urban and rural areas. This is an important part to consider in this context. Moderate representatives tend to highlight infrastructure projects in the metropolitan area. But I am keen to be able to put forward proposals that cover the needs that exist throughout the country – which meet the tourism industry in Västerbotten and Jämtland, which meets the needs of the forest industry in northern Sweden or at home in my Småland, which meets the needs down in Skåne of good connections with the continent and which meets the importance of shipping throughout the country. That's the government's responsibility. It is clear that I can understand that Jessica Rosencrantz, based on her constituency, wants to highlight important road investments in the Stockholm region. But I would like to see a more common order of priorities in the region as to which of the most important projects, perhaps even the most important road projects, if I am to be so clear. I do not even think that I have come alive when I have met regional representatives of the Moderates or other parties. It is important to manage a regional collection – it is done in many parts of the country. It is also important that we take joint responsibility for funding. Then 2 billion for a 21 billion project is not really a ready-made funding. I think Jessica Rosencrantz and I can agree on that. That's why I'm gonna keep listening. I'm going to make some comments. I intend to weigh the different national interests against each other. I would point out that the card is not there. It should not, because it is the government that finally establishes the national plan. This has been the case when we have had moderate governments. This has been the case when we have had socially-led governments. The government must have the opportunity to make those balances. I think there are a lot of Jessica Rosencrantz's party colleagues who appreciate that stance, because there are some projects that the Finnish Transport Agency has not included that we from the government might think should be given a higher priority.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-288	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me a number of questions about the event surrounding the Swedish Transport Agency's outsourcing of IT operations. The first question is about what measures I intend to take to improve the clearly inadequate procedures within the Agency, according to Jessica Rosencrantz. Of course, like Jessica Rosencrantz, I am anxious to avoid new events similar to those that occurred at the Swedish Transport Agency. Already a week after I took office as Minister of State, the Government decided on a mission to the Swedish Transport Agency to identify the tasks that were handled incorrectly in connection with the procurement of IT operations and to assess the damage that has arisen as a result. The mission also includes assessing the current situation and the possible need for further measures to ensure that the handling of data worthy of protection will be carried out in an appropriate manner in the future. I note that since 1 October, the IT operations of the Swedish Transport Agency have been handled by Swedish safety-tested personnel. The Government has also decided to allow an investigator to review the entire course of events from the beginning of the process of procurement of IT operations by the Swedish Transport Agency. This is, as you know, a process that began already during the time of the bourgeois government. Both of these investigations shall be reported by 31 January 2018. The Government will then consider whether further measures are justified. Another important measure has been to replace the Board of Directors of the Agency. The Board is responsible for the functioning of internal governance and control. I have personally pointed out to the Swedish Transport Agency's new management how important it is for me and the government that the authority quickly resolves any shortcomings in internal procedures. To follow up the agency's work on this is high on the agenda in the Government Office's ongoing dialogue with the Swedish Transport Agency. A well-functioning board is, of course, also central to the provision of information between the agency and the government, which Jessica Rosencrantz's second question is about. As regards the issue of internal transmission of information, the examination previously announced by the Prime Minister has been ongoing since August. The purpose of the screening has been to give us a picture of the course of events and information channels in connection with the events surrounding the Swedish Transport Agency. The results of the events are presented in the Government Office's response to the KU. One measure to be taken within the Government Office is to draw further attention in policy documents to the need for information transmission. There has also been a need for attention and continued attention within the Government Office to be paid to the need for information transfer between departments. In answer to the third question, which concerns my confidence in the Director-General of the Transport Agency, I can confirm that I have confidence in Director-General Jonas Bjelfvenstam. Just like Jessica Rosencrantz, I was reached in September by media information that the Transport Agency's then acting IT Director was not safety-tested. I immediately called Jonas Bjelfvenstam, who assured me that the agency had organized the work so that worthy of protection was handled in a legal and safe way. Since 1 October, the Swedish Transport Agency has a regular – safety-tested – IT Director. The last question concerns the financial consequences for the Swedish Transport Agency. It is not correct that the events surrounding IT operation procurement have led to increased costs. In relation to when the Swedish Transport Agency's IT operations were managed by the Finnish Transport Agency, the costs have decreased. However, the new agreement with IBM, which means that Swedish personnel will handle the IT operation, is more expensive than the original agreement with IBM. The outsourcing of the IT operation did not provide the cost savings initially envisaged by the Swedish Transport Agency.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-297	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. When the IT leak at Transportstyrelsen was revealed this summer, it quickly became clear that this is one of the greatest security scandals of modern times and ultimately a matter of national and individual security. As a relatively new minister, Tomas Eneroth himself was not a minister when the security scandal and the government's inadequate handling were revealed. All the more important is the Government's responsibility for dealing with the successions. As Minister of State, they are ultimately responsible for the work of the authorities that fall under the Ministry and thus also the Swedish Transport Agency. Good governance is important for confidence in our authorities to remain strong. The government must be able to ensure that criminal offences are not committed on our authorities and that tax money goes to the right things. It is therefore important to get to the bottom of how one of the greatest security scandals of our time could be allowed to happen. Millions of Swedes' personal data in the driving licence register as well as sensitive data on Swedish bridges, roads and ports have been open to data experts in other countries. These computer experts have never been screened. Other sensitive information that may have been disclosed are data from the Military Vehicle Register, the identity of secret agents, the addresses of combat pilots, the secret police records and the secret communication networks of the authorities. The scandal surrounding the Swedish Transport Agency has exposed a system error in Swedish government. If we do not act forcefully now, trust may be damaged for a long time to come. The Swedish people have strong faith in our Swedish authorities, but politics must protect and secure it. Unfortunately, the scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency has done the opposite. The Government's investigation into the Swedish Transport Agency, which was established in early August, is in itself welcome. But the government had long had the information that became known to the public this summer. Setting up an investigation only after the information has become known in the media indicates a management that is reactive rather than proactive. Did the government realize the seriousness of the situation? Unfortunately, I do not think so, because it was media tasks that forced the government to act. The investigations are expected to be reported on 31 January, but if the government had acted directly, I and the Government would have been able to discuss the investigation's proposals today. Now this has to wait until a later date, and that is unfortunate on such an important issue. We all hoped that the government had learned a lesson from what happened, but in the autumn we have been reached with further media information that the new Director General of the Transport Agency, then substitute, employed in February a non-safety-tested person as the IT Director. This is what the Government says that he himself learned through the media in September. Unfortunately, it strengthens the image that the government does not have the situation under control or has fully recognised the seriousness of the event – or of cyber security as a priority issue. How is it possible that such recruitment could be done at all? How is it possible, moreover, that the government once again says it has not had knowledge and that it is once again the media that have forced a reaction from the government?
i-8b579d555a752dd6-305	Madam President, I would like I must say that I can appreciate the newly awakened interest in national security of the Moderates. When the Moderates were in government position, the resources for Swedish security were reduced. Our defence capabilities were reduced, general conscription was abolished and a culture was developed that allowed for increased outsourcing in government agencies. So it is a welcome sobering on the part of moderates that they care about national security as much as Jessica Rosencrantz now says. Responsibility for the dismantling of Swedish defence preparedness and security thinking that took place during the alliance government rests heavily on the Moderates, not least on the then Minister of Finance of the Moderates. As regards regulatory letters to the Swedish Transport Agency, I note that the alliance government in the years 2011 – 2014 wrote four regulatory letters. No mention is made of the issue of safety and safety in outsourcing. It wasn't until 2015, to see where we would have changed the government! At that time, we had another government, which wrote in the regulatory letter: So there was now a government consciousness, which was lacking during the reign of the Alliance. So it makes a difference who rules. Therefore, the question almost goes back to the Moderates and Jessica Rosencrantz. We've acted. I set up as soon as I knew an investigation. The board had to leave. We have ensured that in January we will have a thorough review by the Justice Council Thomas Bull. It will be interesting reading, because there, Thomas Bull will also have to go through on what grounds it decided on outsourcing the business and what the dialogue with the then Government Office looked like. The question I ask myself after hearing Jessica Rosencrantz's introduction is: Should I interpret it as meaning that the Moderates now do not want to outsource in government activities? Do the Moderates think it's better that we let the authorities run the business than that we spend it on private companies? As far as information security is concerned, it would be a welcome message from the Moderates. I'm a little interested in hearing if this is a new direction on the part of the Moderates. We will continue to ensure that we have the right handling at the Swedish Transport Agency and other authorities. The investigations we have set up will take place on 31 January and, with the background I have, I will follow particularly closely the KU's thorough examination of this. I think it is extremely interesting, because it may show us what challenges we have in terms of the dialogue between the Government Office and the authorities. It has been important to me from the first day when I took office that there is a proper review that ensures that there are security-rated staff who will deal not least with IT issues in the future. I feel safe in this. I am curious to know whether the Moderates have now changed their views on outsourcing, privatisation and deregulation.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-312	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. As usual, the Government tries to turn its eyes to history and to blame itself – sometimes correctly, sometimes wrongly. But that's a nice rhetorical point to make, if nothing else. The truth is that many parties have a historic responsibility for the fact that, for example, defence appropriations or other things have not been high enough. But we also see a changed world situation, which hopefully all parties take on board. This question is about something quite different. Here it is a matter of a Director General knowingly violating Swedish law, also feeling pressured by the Ministry to act quickly and that the Government has simply not ensured that all necessary information about what is going on in the agency is available. We are discussing conscious violations of the law that have taken place during this government's time. In the wake of one of the greatest security scandals of modern times, many questions remain. This weekend we were reached with new information that the Government Office's own internal review of the IT scandal has been completed. In it, the Government Office is given back homework for its handling. But the government does not want to share the conclusions. Nor can we fully discuss that review today. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Secretary of State apparently has time before Christmas to comment on the investigation of one of the greatest security scandals of our time, not of the conclusions or of who or who has done the review. It is serious that the government continues to duck and dark when all the cards should have been put on the table long ago. The Prime Minister has previously promised a fully transparent process. Now we see the opposite. Now I'm curious. What can the Government say today about the review of the Government Office and why it does not want to be more transparent with its conclusions? Finally, I have a broader question. What does the new Government think about his representative, like the whole government, deliberately keeping Parliament and the Transport Committee in darkness as to the real cause of the Director-General's resignation, despite questions from committee members? Should the Riksdag and the opposition have been informed, according to the Government? If something similar happens again, can we trust the new government's words?
i-8b579d555a752dd6-319	Madam President, I would like I note that Jessica Rosencrantz does not stick to the issues on which the interpellation is concerned, but adds a number of new issues. I'll stick to the interpellation. However, I note that the latter issue is essentially not a matter for the government but for the KU. After a long time in Parliament, I have respect for the Constitutional Committee. It is the committee that has to look at the actions and responsibilities of ministers of state, including the former government, for the fact that there was a situation in which a Director-General clearly broke the law and was subsequently dismissed. In that sense, it is an exceptional and unusual event. I think everyone realises the importance of avoiding something similar happening in Sweden. Therefore, this is not just a question of a review of the Swedish Transport Agency's procedures. There are probably general conclusions that all of us politically responsible can draw from how authorities should keep track of processes, how outsourcing should ensure that one listens to all the different aspects, that one should not have excessive hopes that outsourcing and privatisation of activities lead to economic benefits. On the contrary, we can see that it does not always do so because we have to adjust and adjust the calculation afterwards, just as in the case we are currently discussing. It's too early to draw any conclusions. I myself want to read the review by the Justice Council, an investigation that has been ordered and will be reported on 31 January. I would also like to read the Swedish Transport Agency's own review of their tasks. That's what I think you should do. I think that you should get facts before making confident statements. I think that you should read the reviews that exist before you draw conclusions. Here the Moderates have failed miserably. Based on media data, before the KU review even began, it was decided to go to Parliament with the sharpest instrument that Parliament has, namely the motion of censure. This happened in a way that I believe the political scientists will consider to be both rash and irresponsible in retrospect. If we are to safeguard the constitutional tradition we have had in Sweden, there must be a system in which we calmly take the facts to us, examine, question and then draw parliamentary conclusions. We cannot allow a media agenda to determine what are important political events in Sweden. Therefore, on this issue – where I have started all the processes that exist, changed the board, appointed investigators, ensured that I get regular and continuous information – I will be keen to read the special review the government has ordered and also the agency's own review. I'm not thinking about media tasks running out and having thoughts and ideas about what should be published or not. We are talking here about security-grade information. It may also be in the interest of society that information on the location of security-rated information risks should not be made public. Let us be aware that we have a common responsibility to ensure that the right information comes to the attention of the public at the right time. In that part, I thought I'd wait for the investigations that exist. I note that Jessica Rosencrantz does not answer questions about the fact that the alliance-led government did not at any time in the regulatory letters that existed for the Transport Agency talked about information security, even though it pointed out to the Transport Agency that it would outsource its IT activities. I do not take up the story to dig into it, but a little dressy would it still be to assume a certain responsibility for the senseless outsourcing that the moderated government engaged in.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-327	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. As the Government knows very well but chooses not to mention there are clear legal requirements and regulatory requirements on how data should be handled in such contexts. What happened in this case was that the Director-General deliberately violated those laws and rules. Unfortunately, one cannot protect oneself against this, but one can demand that a government act. Speaking of acting on media data, that's exactly what the government has been doing this whole year. No information was received from Parliament, the Transport Committee or other relevant opposition parties about the national security scandal that had occurred until the media start digging and the government calls for a press conference in the middle of the summer. Then you've suddenly woken up and realized that someone's caught us. Unfortunately, it is not responsible behaviour, the Government. I also welcome the forthcoming KU review that we will be receiving. There is a lot of excitement that can be revealed about who knew what and what responsibility different people should have taken in the process. But there is nothing to prevent this government from being transparent at the same time when you do an audit yourself. The management of the Government Office and the Government will be given back homework in the security scandal. Why can the government not be transparent with that review too, so that we can jointly take responsibility for resolving one of the greatest security scandals of modern times? It is a pity that the government covered up what was going on at the Swedish Transport Agency for a long time, not only for the media but also for other parties in the Riksdag who want to take responsibility and who should be informed when something so serious happens. It is equally serious that the government keeps the cards so close to the body and does not want to be transparent in its own investigations.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-332	Madam President, I would like I am one of those who sometimes think that one should be careful to draw too big conclusions. As far as the greatest security scandal of the modern era is concerned, I myself think it is at least as big, or even bigger, concern that we for a long time, despite clear signals from the outside world, failed to renovate Sweden's defence. A moderate government gave priority to tax cuts before renovating the defence. When the alarm bells rang, Swedish military service was decommissioned by three votes margin in this House. Now we are restoring military service, we are upgrading the defence and we are introducing a regiment on Gotland. It's necessary, and it's good. As far as the KU review is concerned, I think it is interesting from a different point of view. It can hopefully show how to have better information also in a government office and information to the opposition. I would like to remind myself that one of the biggest deals we have had in a long time in Sweden is the so-called Nuon scandal, where apparently neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister for Finance were aware of or received information about what was the largest acquisition in modern times and still has repercussions on the Swedish economy. Then the responsible minister did not even want to appear in the KU. In terms of accountability, there are therefore some homework to do for bourgeois members of parliament and former members of the government – of course, even moderates. On this issue, I do not think we disagree on the substance. Everyone wants us to have clarity, transparency and insight into how information management has been. However, the information must be provided in a timely manner. In this case, we want it to be a good review, both of the agency's actions and of the KU's. In this case, I also believe that all parties and all politicians deserve a moment's reflection before drawing too far-reaching conclusions from media data.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-339	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me if I intend to take any steps to ensure that the Swedish Maritime Administration operates in harmony with the intentions of transferring transport from road and rail to sea. Helena Bonnier has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that competition between different modes of transport is fairer and more competitively neutral. The Government's ambition is to promote the transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping. Maritime transport plays an important role, not least for the Swedish export industries, in the national transport system. The government is working in several areas to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping. One example is that in the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government has proposed the introduction of a temporary so-called eco-bonus system in 2018 – 2020 in order to stimulate the transfer of goods from road to shipping. The Eco-bonus compensates for the additional costs associated with establishing maritime transport solutions as part of the transport chain. Another example is the introduction of the so-called tonnage tax system for Swedish shipping companies, which has contributed to the fact that we can now see clear examples of more Swedish registered ships. On 30 December 2016, the Swedish Maritime Administration presented the Government's mission to analyse the development potential of inland and coastal shipping. The conclusions and proposals for action are broad-based and involve a wide range of stakeholders. Different charges play an important role in the choice of transport arrangements. The Swedish Maritime Administration's assignment report is currently being prepared within the Government Office. The Swedish Maritime Administration is a business establishment and is mainly financed by fairway fees and pilotage fees. It is the Swedish Maritime Administration that largely determines the amount of fees. However, the Government considers it important that fairway charges contribute to environmental management. To set up an investigation, as Helena Bonnier suggests, to review the fairway charges, I see no reason to give ear at the moment. Work on developing a national freight transport strategy is underway internally in the Government Office. An important part of this work is to get goods transferred from road to shipping.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-345	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The basis for my question is the increase in fairway dues decided by the Swedish Maritime Administration for the second year in a row. Even when the first proposal for a new charging model was announced, the Committee on Transport and Tourism was critical. In our report, we stressed the importance of all these changes being made in consultation with users. That was not the case. According to the users, they were called to meetings just to be notified of these increases. Now a new increase has been decided, and according to all the relevant consultation bodies, it is not a good one either. It's also harmful. Even Traffic Analysis, which is the government's own body for examining such proposals, has expressed itself unequivocally: this is wrong. It runs counter to the government's intentions to move goods from road to rail and sea. We all know that with the limited resources we have to invest in roads, both expansion and maintenance, the maritime route is the best solution. The motorway of the sea is wide and has room for so many ships. It sometimes requires maintenance in the form of ice breaking, but otherwise it works as a dream. That's why we should listen more to the industry. In this case, I think the government has missed that point. In his reply, the Minister describes what things are being done to help shipping. However, this with fairway dues destroys both the intentions and the whole picture of the government's being maritime friendly. It also completely spoils the picture – if anyone should have such a picture – of the government as environmentally friendly because the biggest criticism of these charges is about the reverse environmental governance. Shipping companies that invest in environmental development, which have invested a lot of money to develop solutions that contribute to a cleaner environment, are punished with higher fees. The environmental bonus that was in the previous system is gone. Shipping companies that are the first in the world with electric ferries, for example between Helsingborg and Helsingör, suffer higher charges – much higher charges. That cannot be the purpose of government policy.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I note that the Government already notes that different charges play an important role in the choice of transport arrangements. That's where we're in complete agreement. We are also about the shipping industry in Sweden. But then in the answer comes a completely incomprehensible recoil: to investigate the real importance of fairway charges for the competitiveness neutrality of the modes of transport rail, road and sea transport is not necessary. This means that there is no and no need to have impact assessments of the impact of the new charges on the choice of mode of transport. This is as far from reality as you can get, because it is – just as the Government itself says – the charges that largely determine which mode of transport you choose. The Swedish Maritime Administration and the Swedish Transport Administration are two state-owned companies. They both have the main task of ensuring that transport routes in Sweden are provided for the transport of persons and goods. Then there are no more similarities. The Swedish Transport Administration is budgeted – i.e. with tax money – while the Swedish Maritime Administration is revenue-financed, i.e. toll-financed. That means there are two different worlds. This means that the Swedish Maritime Administration must in various ways finance its operations itself through fees from customers, who, however strange, are not able to influence the activities of the Swedish Maritime Administration. For example, you can have views on the different branches of the work and on the large pension liability of the Swedish Maritime Administration. Here, both the large and the small operators in the shipping industry, such as the small cargoes on Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren, contribute. According to the plan, the Swedish Maritime Administration will finance the rebuilding of the locks at Trollhätte Canal, at a cost of SEK 3 billion. Who will benefit from that investment? Would it not be good to first investigate how the new fees based on the Swedish Maritime Administration's operating costs will affect future shipping on Lake Vänern? There, freight prices are raised by at least 10% and costs by 70% for shipowners. What, then, is the result of the big investment? Would it perhaps be more profitable to give priority to reducing the cost of transport on our free roads, that is, water? For this reason, too, an investigation should be set up. The Swedish Maritime Administration is financed 70 per cent by fairway fees from merchant shipping. However, as an example, only 44 percent of this income goes to the maintenance of fairways. Here, of course, an analysis should be made of the real costs of maintenance, so that fairway charges are not used as cost stabilisers for other maritime activities. Such standards certainly do not burden either road or rail transport, where our tax money finances the whole business. Does the Government really not think that there may be reason to investigate the Swedish Maritime Administration's mission and funding with a view to achieving greater equality between shipping and other modes of transport and thus actually being able to implement what we all want, namely the necessary transfer of goods transport by sea?
i-8b579d555a752dd6-362	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that Swedish shipping is doing well. I was recently at a flagging ceremony in Donsö, and it was historic. Now we are flagging in; now the Swedish merchant fleet is increasing, thanks to the Social Democratically led government having adjusted the tonnage tax. This means that there is faith in the future and hope in Swedish shipping. Combine this with the fact that in the national plan we are making important investments for shipping, at least as proposed by the Finnish Transport Agency, and at the same time in the government are working on a freight transport strategy aimed at strengthening shipping; there is reason for the future. This is important, because it is clear that shipping is a key player for us to meet the challenges, not least when it comes to climate-smart transport. Then there is a concern about the financing of the operation. Fairway charges have not been increased since 2000, I think, i.e. for a very long time. For a long time it failed to finance the business properly. The bourgeois-led government made temporary contributions for a while, but basically it has not changed the form of funding. It is clear that this means that the Swedish Maritime Administration will face major economic challenges in the future. Then it is important to use both charges and other incentives to get a better functioning economy – we must be able to take responsibility – and at the same time a design of the fees that is good for Swedish shipping. Therefore, the eco-bonus, which we announce, is important, as is the review of the fees currently under way, where the work together with the industry, Fossil-free Sweden and other actors are looking at how fairway fees can be adjusted to achieve better accuracy. This is one of the reasons why I do not now want to set up a completely new investigation into the existence or otherwise of fairway charges. Let me make it clear, however, that it is important that there are conditions for making adjustments to the current fairway charges. There, among other things, Trafikanalys has a mission since before. I get a little worried when I hear Helena Bonnier. You could interpret it as Helena Bonnier advocating a model where everyone should only pay for the very part you use yourself. Icebreaker operations are taken as an example, and Helena Bonnier wonders in her interpellation why in southern Sweden you should pay for snow clearance of winter trails in northern Sweden. It is not only in northern Sweden we pay, but also in Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren. Does Helena Bonnier think that you should not take responsibility for this? This means, above all, that Helena Bonnier advocates a system where we will increase the fees relative to the basic industry, the base industry and others who use the harbour in Luleå or Piteå or other ports in the north where snow clearance or ice mining is needed. It is an interesting position on the part of the Moderates if you want to burden the base industry and northern Sweden with increased fees. I think it is important that we take responsibility for the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances. I think it is important that we jointly welcome the fact that Swedish shipping actually has faith in the future and hope, that the flag increase, that we delivered the tonnage tax – something the bourgeois government never managed to do – and that we can also now help shipping to develop even more climate-smart transport with eco-bonus. I am not saying no to adjustments in the future, and I am pleased that the work has such a dialogue. I myself have experienced a very good dialogue with Swedish shipping during the time I was a minister, and I am optimistic about being able to make good efforts in the future.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-371	Madam President, I would like It is true that the Swedish Maritime Administration is a key player in the issue of fairway charges. It is, as the Minister mentions in his reply, the Maritime Administration that determines these. But it's actually the government that's in charge. The Swedish Maritime Administration is just a tool in the hands of the government. The Government has every opportunity to ensure that the Swedish Maritime Administration operates in the direction that the Government wants it to operate, namely for goods to be moved from road to sea. I would also like to mention that fairway charges exist only in Sweden and Finland. In fact, Finland has reduced its share by 50%. It is good to think about this when talking about Swedish competitiveness – the competitiveness of both shipping and Swedish industry. The increase in fairway charges will be paid by customers. This is particularly evident with the new model, which makes fairway charges for passenger carriers based on the number of passengers on the ferry when calling. One might ask: How many shipping companies can afford this? How will it affect ticket prices, the hospitality industry and people's willingness to take the boat? This is not entirely clear, especially when it comes to Visby. There is competition from aviation, and Gotland's shipping companies have gone out and said that they are concerned about how the increase in fairway charges will affect their pricing, their customers and customers' willingness to make use of this type of service. When we talk about services, I would like to point out once again that the Swedish Maritime Administration is a service body, which exists for the benefit of customers. The Swedish Maritime Administration is for shipping, not the other way round, as you can think when you read the answer. It is not the fault of shipping that the Swedish Maritime Administration has pension debts, that it has done bad business, has bought a bankrupt helicopter company and has made new recruitments. You should be careful to tighten up your own business before you increase your fees. It is also desirable for the Government to set up an investigation into the future financing of the Swedish Maritime Administration and perhaps future incorporation of the Swedish Maritime Administration into the Swedish Transport Administration. This could lead to at least two positive things. All modes of transport would be treated fairly so as not to give with one hand and bring the other, which is the relationship between eco-bonus and increased fairway fees. The Eco bonus will only be available for three years, corresponding to 50 million per year, while the increase will be valid for the foreseeable future.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-377	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I suppose we have a little bit of different tasks, the government and I, I could imagine. According to the Swedish Maritime Administration's Swedish Maritime Administration, the fairway and pilotage fees increased by 8 and 5 per cent respectively in January 2017. In January 2018, Sjöfa rtsverket intends to increase fairway and pilotage fees by 9 and 5 per cent respectively. In January 2018, the Swedish Maritime Administration also intends to introduce a completely new charging model. Of course there have been increases during the journey. I would like to dwell on what this means for the opening-up of competition in maritime transport. As the Government has noted, I think there is reason to review what is really the core business of the Swedish Maritime Administration. It should be refined. Large-scale passenger transport is of great importance to the tourism industry. In Stockholm alone, it is an increase of over 5 billion a year, and this applies both to ferry traffic on the Baltic Sea and cruise traffic. This traffic will now also be subject to higher charges, which will have a direct impact on profitability and, of course, on shipowners' choice of ports. As far as cruise traffic is concerned, this can have huge consequences for Sweden. As we heard earlier, a completely different path is being taken in our neighbouring country, Finland. It reduces fairway charges to support maritime transport. Today we can already see that the international cruise ships finance a large part of the ice-breaking in northern Sweden through their fees, as was also the case with the Government. In fact, it is not competitively neutral. 16 per cent of fairway fees go to sea and air rescue, which is the largest investment in the mountain regions. Of course we should have this business, but the question is who will pay it. The funding in this case is completely misallocated. In a few lines of the big plan, the government stresses the importance of redeploying goods transport to shipping. It is a beautiful speech but is totally countered by the reality of the new directives coming into force on 1 January. Sweden has high ambitions and great commitments. It is important to reduce the environmental impact of all traffic. It is excellent and much-needed, but then one must be able to make a transfer from road to shipping. Maritime transport is by far the most environmentally friendly mode of transport per tonnage. The companies are constantly investing in improvements, with large and costly investments to meet the environmental objectives that we as a country and those that companies have undertaken. The use of LNG is one such example. Installing catalysts is another way of contributing to climate objectives. However, the new charges now being introduced seem to be in the opposite direction. Unfortunately, they mean that it is cheaper to let the catalysts rest and meet the minimum requirements. This is an example of how wrong it is with the increased fairway charges. Gotlandsbolaget, which is quite important at least in our neighbourhood, notes that the environmentally friendly ferries with many passengers and pilot ships with the new system suffer increases at all stages: emergency charges, passenger charges and reduced environmental bonuses. This makes me a little perplexed. How are we going to make it possible to have a living and environmentally friendly transport of goods and people on our roads?
i-8b579d555a752dd6-388	Madam President, I would like I think I see an excellent example of why the Moderates have given up large budget deficits every time they have been in government. After all, there is not a tax increase, a tax increase or any other revenue to the state that the Moderates do not eagerly oppose. There is also a need to take responsibility for the infrastructure we have in the country. Somewhere it is also necessary to take responsibility for the fact that we have a maritime service that can manage the operation and the service that this entails. Here Helena Bonnier has already said that she does not think that shipping should take responsibility for ice mining in northern Sweden, but she does not answer the question who should then pay it. Is it the base industry, the municipalities of Norrland or Luleå harbour? What will be the cost? Or should you blame yourself for that you happen to live in the northern part of Sweden, where it is a little more often? Does Helena Bonnier feel any form of national joint responsibility for us in all parts of the country to be able to work for shipping to develop? Another thing, which one would not really have to point out, is that the transports that begin their journey up in Luleå harbor, with ice mining, then maybe come past both Stockholm and other ports on the way south. These are coherent transport chains, which we have a shared responsibility to strengthen. This government does. That is why shipping is now developing. That is why the flag is now increasing, which it did not during the time the Moderates ruled. Then ships were flagged out instead. Then Helena Bonnier is wrong about the issue of fees. There has been an increase in fees now, 2017. The others are planned. The last increases were made in 2000, I think. This means that for a very long time they refrained from doing something that strengthened the economy. The moderate-led government made a temporary effort to sort out the economic situation. If shipping is to develop in the future, we must have more stable financing systems. I can only say that Swedish shipping is doing well today. Flagging's increasing. Thanks to the tonnage tax system, which we implemented, we now have hope and faith in the future. With the help of a climate bonus, we can now actually find a position where it will be profitable to invest in new drivelines. Yes, there are reasons for reviewing and adjusting the models that exist today. This has been initiated by the Swedish Maritime Administration itself, together with Trafikanalys and the industry. I feel that I have a good relationship with Swedish Shipping and with Blue Growth, which makes good efforts to create hope and confidence in the future in a industry that we believe is underused and could be used much more. Therefore, the good strategy will be a lot about how we can transfer more goods from road to rail and shipping. I will bring together representatives of all the ports of the country during the spring to discuss how we strengthen port capacity. However, unlike the Moderates, I take responsibility for the fact that these are national joint ventures, and we also take responsibility for the economy. We cannot leave behind a morasy either in public finances, in the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances or in other important parts that exist to maintain competitiveness, climate change and good infrastructure.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-394	Madam President, I would like I would remind the Minister that during the time that Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd had the minister's job, the Swedish Maritime Administration received 300 million a year over three years – the so-called maritime billion – precisely so that they would settle their debts and not have to raise any fairway fees. We cannot have a system where the Swedish Maritime Administration increases the user fee every time you need money. Then there will be an evil spiral that leads to fewer and fewer paying increasingly higher fees. The Minister is very unfair about the Moderates' relationship with infrastructure and different modes of transport. In fact, it was the Moderates who wrote the maritime strategy, but it happened so that it was the minister's predecessor who had to present the finished work. The Tonnage tax has been mangled since the 80s, and it has mainly been Social Democratic governments that have said no. There, it would be a bit dressy for the Minister to be a little more humble and not take full credit for the introduction of tonnage tax. It has basically been the Transport Committee that stood against the Ministry of Finance, regardless of the government. The Minister is very proud of the good relations with Swedish Shipping and the shipping companies, and he should be, but do not let the raised fairway fees be the small bit of manure in the middle of the cake. It makes the whole cake inedible. So take care of the fairway fees!
i-8b579d555a752dd6-398	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with what Boriana Åberg has said. This is obviously the attitude of the Moderates in terms of infrastructure and everything related to it in Sweden. There is no distinction whatsoever there. That is not really what I am talking about; I am talking about the conditions of competition and the conditions of competition between the different modes of transport. The Swedish Maritime Administration states that it does not consider itself to be able to analyse the financial impact of the proposed increases and the new system. ..................................................... I feel that this is somewhat irresponsible, and for that reason I maintain the need to investigate the actual main tasks of the Swedish Maritime Administration and how to manage this. The fact that it needs to be developed in consultation with the industries is also quite obvious. After all, it can be seen that the environmental impact of the new charges is negative. For this reason, I maintain that I would look forward to an investigation into what the Swedish Maritime Administration's tasks and main objectives should be and that this can be agreed upon.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-401	Madam President, I would like I must say that I really appreciate Boriana Åberg's illustration of the cake. I'm a little girl myself and I'm used to the fact that it's just the opposite: The best thing on the cheese cake is in the middle, and you don't eat the edges. Well, I think we all agree that there is a need for many different efforts to continue to strengthen shipping, and I think that we are all passionate and eager to be able to do so so that Sweden can once again become a proud maritime nation. Then I cannot help pointing out the fact that it was under the Social Democratic leadership that we managed to manage the tonnage tax. It was we who delivered that change. It is now that flagging is increasing to Swedish shipping, it is now that we are also developing the eco-bonus system, which hopefully will be able to stimulate climate-smart maritime transport, and it is now we have the opportunity to add 100 billion more to infrastructure, where some will certainly be able to land on important investments both in our ports and in others that also benefit shipping. Maritime transport is under-exploited and needs to be used to a greater extent. I note that I did not get a full response to the fundamentals of how geographical distribution and responsibility for icebreaker activities should be distributed according to the Moderates. Let us find an opportunity to come back to this, because it is an interesting question. It is precisely the icebreaker business that is facing some challenges in the future that I believe not least the members of the Transport Committee and I will continue to have good discussions on. With this, I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas and hope that there will not be too thick ice to worry about shipping in the future. I also hope that we can work together to strengthen Swedish shipping. Now the flag is increasing, and it actually gives some hope and faith in the future.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-406	Madam President, I would like Annicka Engblom has asked me whether I intend to honour the election promise of the Social Democrats and commission the Swedish Transport Administration to add the South East Link to the Trafikverket's plan of priority projects and, if I intend to honour the election promise and build the South East Link, how this will be financed. As can be seen from the interpellation, Annicka Engblom has recently asked me a similar question, and I have a similar answer today.
i-DH8xjGBHsK8QMJNAQfEYjy	Trafikverket's plan includes a change of track between Älmhult and Olofström with a start of construction during the period 2018 – 2020. Electrification and rehabilitation on the existing track between Älmhult and Olofström are listed among the objects proposed by Trafikverket if the framework for named investments is increased by 10 percent. However, an extension of the railway from Olofström to Blekinge coast track and Karlshamn is not included in Trafikverket's plan proposal. The Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan has now been widely referred and is prepared in the usual way within the Government Office. What the final plan will look like, the government will decide on in the spring of 2018, and I therefore cannot today comment on individual objects.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There is a reason why I have chosen to raise this issue also in the form of interpellation. I have been exercising for many years on the issue of the missing link, as it has come to be called by all of us who are interested in the question of the route between Älmhult and Olofström– 18 kilometres of railway that would facilitate both freight traffic and important companies operating in the southeastern part. I have also plagued the predecessors of the Government with a written question and received an indecent answer, as it was this time. Of course, I can understand the fact that we do not want to go ahead with events, but like this before Christmas, and when you made such clear promises for the 2014 elections, I still think that we can at least discuss the question of and the significance of this small stretch. Madam President, I would like During the last shivering weeks of the previous election movement, 2014, the then traffic policy spokesperson of the Social Democrats Anders Ygeman – later the resignation of the Minister of the Interior – was down in my area in Blekinge. He then made a clear promise that the South East Link would be built at a change of power. No one could be happier than me. Many happy reactions were also read about in Karlshamns Hamn AB's newspaper Destination Karlshamn. There you could see a smiling Ygeman together with the regional council, social democrat Christina Mattisson, and Suzanne Svensson, my social democratic colleague from Blekinge. Sara Rudolfsson, Social Democratic Commissioner, said that she interpreted the promises they received that the South East Link should be built as definitive and that it was more a question of when the expansion could get started. Madam President, I would like On this issue, there is total political agreement in Blekinge. There is also agreement across our county borders. Not only that: There is agreement with the business community both in my constituency, Blekinge, and in the constituency of the Government, Kronoberg. This is a railway section that includes Småland, Blekinge and really the whole of southeastern Sweden. For a long time, the south-eastern part of Sweden has not been committed to the extent that would be necessary, particularly in the case of rail and road. This must be borne by both the past and the present government. The Government has stated in previous interpellation debates that it has so much more money – 100 billion! Then 2 1⁄2 percent of these, i.e. the 2.5 billion that this railway nut would cost, can be taken down to Blekinge. Earlier in the interpellation debates, we have talked about taking political responsibility. I believe that the Government is obliged to answer whether he intends to take responsibility for his party's political promise in 2014.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-419	Madam President, I would like I'll take responsibility. At this point, I take responsibility above all for the fact that we have 100 billion more to spend on infrastructure than the then moderate-led government put on it. It chose to prioritise tax cuts instead of investing in things that build the country strong and large. Instead, housing is being built. Let's focus on infrastructure. Now we spend more resources on education. Now growth is increasing. Now we have the highest employment ever measured. It is a good and wise economic policy and a good investment policy that has turned Sweden's development around. I think it is important to remember this, because when we then put our foot down and make tough priorities about which infrastructure is important, it wants everyone to be able to cope with these priorities. What the Social Democrats have said before the elections is, of course, important starting points when the government is now to put its foot down and make its priorities, which, as is well known, will not happen until the spring. I note that Mrs Annicka's group leader in the Transport Committee was recently in this House and spoke in favour of an Eastern relationship. The former party secretary, Tomas Tobé, has also written about this. There is strong moderate pressure on bets everywhere, not least on road investments. On the other hand, only Annicka Engblom mentions the South-East Link, so I have to ask if the Moderates think that the South-East Link is important nationally. Is that a priority you want to include in the national plan? Regionally there is a strong consensus, as has been pointed out and spoken when I have met with regional actors, although I note that unfortunately, the Business Transport Council does not address the South East link in its consultation response. I think it is important that we do what we can to look at which are the most suitable objects in the future. For a long time, the South East Link has been discussed as an appropriate project to transfer more goods from road to rail and not least to strengthen connections in south-eastern Sweden. I now take in all the views of the consultative bodies and listen to the discussions, but I am also curious to hear how the opposition parties view the issue of the South East Link. I note that the South East Link is not so clearly highlighted at national level from, for example, the Moderates. In Trafikverket's plan there are now for the first time resources to maintain accessibility, punctuality and capacity. This is a good thing, and it is certainly an important step that the Finnish Transport Administration chooses to take. I will listen to the consultation bodies and then draw the right conclusions. I am curious to know whether Annicka Engblom's argumentation for the South East Link is a view shared by the entire Moderate Coalition Party.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-429	Madam President, I would like I think it was an interesting angle to try to reverse things. Who is the minister in this House? He's facing me. Who made this promise in 2014, so clear and explicit that it was understood so by everyone? Yes, it was the government's party. I cannot imagine that the former Minister of State and the former transport policy spokesperson Ygeman was wandering about and delirious without having any foundation or knowledge of what was thought of within the Social Democracy in the face of a possible change of power, but I take this as revenue because this was something that was envisaged. So has the Government. After all, the Government itself has exercised on this issue, 2009-2010, so we should agree on this. You, Tomas Eneroth, and your fellow-motionists have expressed you in much the way I have expressed myself in my motions, for example with my social-democratic colleagues. Here we are. You don't want to take responsibility for made promises. They try to use the rhetorical trick of turning it around by driving it down my throat, like I would stand here and be a minister – which I am happy to be, but in that case I am not until after 2018. Now that we seem to have a consensus on this issue, can the Government at least say that this is a very important investment? It would also relieve the South Main Line, and those of us who live south of Stockholm know exactly what this could mean. It is therefore about 2 1⁄2% of this 100 billion, and it is not, of course, just any interested party who would be willing to co-finance the South East Link if this were given priority by the government and put back in the traffic plan. It is about Volvo Cars, Region Skåne, Region Kronoberg, Region Kalmar, Södra Cell, AAK and the large ferry transport company DFDS Seaways. Not least, it is about Ikea, a company that is familiar to the Government. They are very interested that the transport that comes from the east could go by rail rather than by road. Of the 2 1⁄2 billion that this cop costs, these companies are prepared to meet the government with 950 million, almost half. There's a lot of pressure and a lot of demand. The promise has been made but not fulfilled. The interest is broad political and regional, and it is an interest that exists both in politics and in the business world. What on earth is stopping you from fulfilling the promise of the Government? Buy me the Christmas present now!
i-8b579d555a752dd6-437	Madam President, I would like It would have been tempting to present Christmas presents like this, but I am afraid that Annicka Engblom's party colleagues would immediately direct a KU-registration against me. That is what separates us: I cannot answer. I can't point out individual objects-- it would be perceived that I am ministering. This is what makes me respect not to speak about individual objects during this time, but rather to listen to the views. On the other hand, Annicka Engblom could answer the question whether the Moderates think the South East Link is an important national priority. That would be an important message for me, because I think it is a good thing that we in Sweden can agree widely across block borders on important infrastructure investments. I note that the Moderates in the Riksdag have mainly raised the issue of Eastern Connection in Stockholm and other Stockholm investments and not so often the issue of the South East Link. Regional anchoring is important. However, I note that Ikea does not refer to the South East Link in its referral. The Transport Council and Volvo Cars have not submitted any referrals. It is, of course, important that there is broad support for the priorities that the government will do in the future. And I think it is important that we continue to increase investment, not least in rail transport. I note that, in its proposal, the Finnish Transport Administration chooses to go forward with some of these investments, which is extremely appreciated for the region, as I understand the comments. I have my reasons as Minister of State not to comment on individual objects. On the other hand, I am well aware of the issue, have been involved in it and believe that it is important for us to be able, nationally, to make the priorities necessary for the right project to be part of what then becomes the national plan. I also know what my party thought before the elections. But my question goes back to Annicka Engblom: Is this the Moderate priority? Although with this government we now have 100 billion more than we had when Annicka Engblom's party was in charge of the country, not all projects are included in this. Have the Moderates done their homework and choose to prioritise investments in south-eastern Sweden, for example the South-East Link?
i-8b579d555a752dd6-445	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not falling for that rhetorical trick. It doesn't belong here. I think we can be more serious. Many people are interested in this issue in several counties. We are talking about Skåne and Kronoberg, in some parts also about Kalmar but above all about Blekinge. How am I supposed to interpret the answer? The government should nevertheless be prepared to py ts a in money if one showed a little greater interest in this case, when one has been so clear earlier in opposition. There should be some concern for all traffic situations in southern Sweden. Much is actually being built from Europe upwards, but it is not met with corresponding efforts from the north and south, that is to say in the Swedish part of the south-east, where we have an increased flow of goods from, above all, southern and eastern Europe. I had hoped that the Government could have been a little more positive this Christmas week and at least expressed its interest in this. Instead, he tries rhetorical tricks. I find that a bit boring. I am not such a politician who indulges in such excesses, but I think we should be doing real and practical politics in this House. I should therefore like to take this as meaning that I will see the time and hope that your election promise will still be fulfilled. But if it's to be implemented by 2018, I don't give much for it.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-449	Madam President, I would like It's all in the eye of the beholder. The government has made it clear that when the preparation in the Government Office is completed, we intend to make a proposal or actually a decision on a national plan. Then Annicka Engblom will see which projects are included. We now have 100 billion more at our disposal than during the time when Annicka Engblom's party comrades ruled this country, so we have more resources for infrastructure. I note that I do not get an answer as to whether for the Moderates national – Annicka Engblom is still a Member of Parliament – there is an interest in building the South East Link. So far, I have heard many moderate representatives talking and interpelling about objects in the Stockholm region but not so often about, for example, the South East Link, which from the point of view of freight transport and national strategy has its obvious advantages. I know this as a close regional representative with good information about the South East Link, and I believe that many in this House are aware of this. As regards the final balance, a great deal of work remains to be done. I want to be able to be thorough and go through all the referrals. I would like to see the reasons for the possible re-priorities of industry. Of course, I would also like to take responsibility for the serious and responsible financing of the efforts we are making. Although we have 100 billion more, the wish is certainly four or five times greater, so it will still be a tough priority. It is precisely because of this that I ask each region, but also every party, what are the main priorities. I note that the answer from Annicka Engblom did not appear in that part. Nevertheless, I wish Annicka a really merry Christmas and hope it will be a nice Christmas down in Blekinge. Have a good time!
i-8b579d555a752dd6-454	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson has asked me how the social perspective of economics/centralization of government activities/total defence has been weighed into directives and decisions prior to the decision being made. Anders Åkesson has also asked me if I share the interpellant's assessment that the decision leads to centralisation of state operations to Stockholm and that this increases the vulnerability of air traffic management operations. It is the State-owned company Swedavia AB that owns the airports concerned. Swedavia AB makes decisions on how the company's operations should be conducted. The agreement between Swedavia AB and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, which performs air traffic control for Swedavia AB, has been concluded following a decision by the respective board and after referral to the Swedish Armed Forces. I assume that the parties have taken into account the mandates and regulations applicable to each party's activities and that the various aspects that are affected have therefore been taken into account during the decision-making process. The agreement means that a facility will be built at Arlanda near Swedavia's operational central and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's area control facility and Arlanda Tower. Once the facility is completed, the operations in the respective towers will gradually and over a few years be transferred to the central hub. The agreement is deemed to provide opportunities for the development of both parties' activities. Redundance and regional aspects are important from an overall perspective. These are, in particular, the elements I will inform myself about in dialogue with the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-460	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Eneroth.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-462	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it is both a defiant and from many societal perspectives strange decision that the state companies under Eneroth's leadership have taken. It is defiant because, through Mr Shekarabi, Mr Shekarabi, Mr Eneroth's colleague, the Cooperation Government has made it very clear that the wind has now changed in terms of centralisation of the state. The state should be present throughout the country, and it is a priority for Prime Minister Stefan Löfven that this is the case. The decision of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia, under the authority of Minister Eneroth, means that some forty qualified jobs are now being lost and centralised to Stockholm from well-functioning operations in Kiruna with several locations. The case of centralised air traffic control thus becomes a parallel case to the Swedish Tax Agency's previous plans to close regional tax offices. That is a strange decision, Madam President. From a social point of view, the decision seems both unwise and probably impossible to make only in a short time once the total defence planning has gained momentum in this country. From the beginning, Visby would also be involved. But there the Swedish Armed Forces said no. Add to this that centralised air traffic management is easier to take out in a grey zone scenario. It can happen through a cyberattack, physical infiltration with sabotage or a terrorist attack. Government colleagues, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist and Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson, who has the emergency preparedness on his table, have every reason to be concerned about what is happening at the Ministry of Industry. The events of the night, when the world's busiest airport in Atlanta closed down due to power cuts, should give thought to centralising such important functions as air traffic control to one place in the country. Madam President, I would like From an economic point of view, which is the main reason for the state authorities arguing for the change, it seems in this context that it is small money in terms of the entire budget. Critics say that the reduction in staff is too optimistic. Central air traffic management would thus risk becoming a burden and not a saving.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-469	In what way have all the above-mentioned social perspectives of the economy/centralisation of state activities/total defence been weighed into directives and decisions prior to the decision being taken? Does the Government share my assessment that the decision leads to centralisation of state activities to Stockholm and that this also increases vulnerability to air traffic management activities? To my first question, the Government has answered: I assume that the parties have taken into account the tasks and regulations that apply to each party's activities. In addition, the Government intends to be particularly informed in dialogue. I repeat my questions because I believe that I have not received a reasonable answer to them.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-473	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Åkesson for a good question on a complex matter. We share the view that it is important for the whole of Sweden to be given good opportunities to live. Unlike when Sweden had a bourgeois government, we now relocate government agencies. This autumn, seven new agencies have been relocated. Government service offices are being built all over the country, and the nine tax offices that Anders Åkesson mentioned in the interpellation have been saved. It is important for Sweden to be able to live and for the state to be present everywhere. That is a clear common ambition. On the other hand, it is important that we have well-functioning regional airports that can, cost-effectively, maintain the service that aviation actually provides. I note that, in its budget option, the Centre Party is cutting aid to regional airports by SEK 85 million. I also note that Anders Åkesson, in his interpellation, does not address the issue of how remote management can actually increase accessibility to regional airports. I realise that it is a major challenge to assess the technical prerequisites for implementing a system that offers technical benefits and increased safety but which, of course, can also have disadvantages. Therefore, I have made sure that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, which delivers the order to Swedavia, has had a dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces objected to Visby but had nothing to recall regarding the location in the other places. The issue is not clear just because a state company and a work have signed an agreement. The question will be examined. The Swedish Transport Agency will make an operational approval, and this review is now ongoing. After the interpellation, I have called the Director General of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, Ann Persson Griva, to inform me more about the matter. It is important that we are at the forefront of technology in Sweden in the future, ensuring that we have good redundancy in air traffic management capacity and, not least, taking into account the safety policy aspects raised by Anders Åkesson. At the same time, it is important that we ensure that we have good service and availability throughout the country. These are my starting points. I'm not sure they differ so much from Anders Åkesson's and the Center Party's starting points. However, I believe that both our parties have a challenge in dealing with technological progress on the one hand, and the possibility of ensuring good service throughout the country on the other. I think it's possible to combine. But, as I said, we are in a situation where the Swedish Transport Agency has to review the agreement in order to be able to make a decision on a possible operating approval in the years ahead.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-485	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have a few comments. Unlike the alliance government, the Government has adopted the habit of saying in the most diverse contexts. In this case, it is a question of the government decentralising state activities. It is good that the government's colleagues are making an effort. This often happens after the Centre Party, through, for example, the Riksdag Tax Committee, has come across the crazy thing about centralising tax offices – but that is not what we were going to discuss. For me, this issue then becomes even more strange. When Prime Minister Eneroth's colleagues make an effort to ensure that the whole country lives, the Ministry of Economic Affairs allows the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia to centralise strategically important jobs from Kiruna, Östersund and several locations to Stockholm. It is true that the Center Party's budget reduces aid to regional airports by SEK 85 million. We do so because we do not want to impose a flight tax of over 1 billion on air traffic in Sweden. The government is introducing a compensation for the air tax to regional airports, which is incomprehensible in its description. We must take this into account in a later interpellation debate, but since the Center Party does not want to impose the cost that the government intends to impose, we do not think we need to compensate them for it either. So back to what the interpellation is all about. The Government says that it would also be a support for regional airports to introduce this centralised, developed or, as the Director General himself said today, digitised systems – there is a little bit of Swedish about it, because it is a centralisation to Arlanda. The regional airports, unlike Swedavia, have the possibility of buying air traffic control themselves. This has also been done by companies other than LFV and often at a significantly lower cost. The Kalmar airport is talking about savings of 25-30 per cent, and I can imagine that this is something similar for Växjö, where Eneroth may sometimes fly. Does the Government intend to impose the LFV regional air traffic services in a future? Is this what the Government expresses when he says that it is for their sake that one centralises to Arlanda? I would like an answer to that, and I think regional airports would like that as well. My question remains: In what way has the social perspective of economics/centralization of state activities/total defence been weighed into the decision that two state works under the wings of Minister Eneroth now make?
i-8b579d555a752dd6-494	Madam President, I would like It is not two government works under my wing; it is a government company and a government work. The government work I handle here is the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority, and I have called and had a dialogue with the Director General to make sure that the Swedish Armed Forces' views have been taken into account. I have also been informed of the consequences of such a rescheduling. As has been said, the Swedish Transport Agency is in a position to review since it is the Swedish Transport Agency that has the task of making decisions on operational approval for this. This was the case when in Sundsvall a remote control of Örnsköldsvik airport was centralised. If I have understood correctly, this operational function has essentially worked well. In response to Anders Åkesson's question as to whether I intend to proceed with the other airports, I say that I have absolutely no such intention. There is no such plan. Nor has the government made a decision, but it is the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia that have jointly concluded an agreement, which the Swedish Transport Agency now has to review for a possible operating approval and which I, as Minister, have informed me of. I note that it is during the time of this government that we have been able to move out state activities and new authorities throughout the country. State service offices are established on site by location. Even my own Växjö has for the first time been able to get a localized state work because it is now a second tone. Now we are able to challenge, and now we are able to lift government operations throughout the country. But it is clear that every time this happens and every time we discuss it, whether it is centralisation or decentralisation, we must always consider cost-effectiveness and other interests. How can we increase accessibility to regional airports, for example? This is one of the reasons why I am now more informed about this activity and that I imagine that, when they make an operating approval, the Swedish Transport Agency takes into account the various intentions that exist with the transfer of control to remote control. I follow the debate, and I note above all – which is perhaps the most important – that in this case the Armed Forces have nothing to recall. But I am absolutely convinced that both me and Anders Åkesson will come back in discussions on this issue, because it is important. It concerns an important part of Swedish aviation safety, and it concerns an important part of the implementation of new technologies.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-500	Madam President, I would like This is my final line, and then the Government has another line. So perhaps I can ask you a further question. Thank you for your promise not to force regional airports under state air traffic control! I think that they in particular are very grateful, because there is a fear of having to bear huge overhead costs when you finally have gotten out of it. It is good that the Government is putting the Transport Agency to review the whole thing, as I see it before entering into enforcement. It is quite correct that there is a trial with remote control, but it has been down twice since it has been run. It is of course so with remote-controlled technology that there is a vulnerability factor. There is reason to reflect on the night in Atlanta, the world's busiest airport, which, due to disconnected power supply, failed to function, and on the consequences of this. These are about the same consequences as if there were no air traffic control in operation. Finally, it is a good thing that government works are relocated, but to me, Madam President, it nevertheless seems a mystery that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia are involved in centralising strategic, important government services from a variety of locations in the country to Arlanda. Thank you for your answer, once again.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-506	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the commitment and for a good discussion! The only thing I would like to add is an emphasis on the fact that in this case the Swedish Armed Forces have a responsibility to review and make comments. They have done this on the basis of the information I have received regarding the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. They have had views on the establishment in Visby, but not on the other establishments. I very much share the view that it is important that every new technological change takes account of the risks it poses today. Whether we are talking about the night's power outage in Atlanta or other events, it is important that this is taken into account in the future. We need increased redundancy and security in order to meet the challenges we face, whether it be civil accidents, terrorist threats or risk or preparation for disaster and war. I appreciate the commitment. As Anders Åkesson and I have a debate left, I refrain from wishing Merry Christmas this time. I'll have to do that on the next occasion.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-510	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson has asked me what measures I intend to take to resolve the situation surrounding winter road maintenance in northern Sweden as soon as possible. Individual road keepers are free to choose for themselves how to arrange their winter road maintenance. To the extent that Trafikverket's procured contractors have the opportunity to offer also individual road keepers services with winter maintenance, it is quite possible and something that Trafikverket sees positively. There will then be a contractual relationship between the individual road carrier and the contractor. The fact that the winter road maintenance of our roads works is of great importance for both accessibility and road safety. The Finnish Transport Agency therefore imposes requirements on its contractors on how winter road maintenance is to be carried out and on which standard to achieve on the roads in winter time. The Finnish Transport Agency monitors the work of the contractors and ensures that what has been agreed, and for which the state also pays, is carried out. In recent years, the Finnish Transport Agency has developed new and modern methods and working methods to improve monitoring. However, the requirements for how and when the contractor will perform the winter road maintenance are the same as before. The Finnish Transport Agency is gradually introducing these new methods and methods of follow-up in connection with procurements of winter road maintenance. Prior to the introduction, Trafikverket has had dialogue with both the entrepreneurs and the National Association of Roads. The dialogue with the National Association of Roads has resulted in an action plan that includes a number of activities to proactively reduce the risk of individual road associations being adversely affected. For example, Trafikverket informs individual road managers about ongoing procurements and how it may affect any contracts that the individual road carrier has with the current contractor. The Finnish Transport Agency can also provide advice to the road associations. However, geographical conditions may sometimes lead to the need in some cases for more far-reaching measures to allow for the coordination of snow clearance measures. This may, for example, relate to measures to plan jointly for synchronised procurements. I assume that further dialogue will be required on the basis of the information that has been provided. It is important that all parties see their opportunity to contribute to the solution of the issue. I intend to continue to follow the matter.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-516	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. When I wrote this interpellation to the Minister for Infrastructure, the media reported that winter was in full swing, especially in northern Sweden. The fact that it is snowing heavily, especially in northern Sweden and along the country's east coast, and that this places great strain on social functions is not news. That is precisely why, Madam President, it is a little strange that the government has not reacted in the past when such obvious and serious shortcomings have been revealed in the way in which public road maintenance is conducted after the Government's own authority, the Finnish Transport Agency, has changed its procurement procedures for winter road maintenance. Already during winter 2016 – 2017 it was reported that the Swedish Transport Administration's new regulations on procured winter road maintenance mean that a large number of road associations, i.e. road confluences, in northern Sweden have no working snow clearance. Briefly, the concerns stem from the fact that a new regulatory framework means that entrepreneurs' punctuality is monitored via GPS and that any delays in the entrepreneur lead to a heavy penalty payment. The consequences of this have been that the contractors, who were able to take on side assignments along the road or under the hand of the state's winter road maintenance, now instead avoid snow clearance tasks for road owners other than the Finnish Transport Agency, such as road consensualties. As a result, public services such as fire brigades, police, ambulances or home care in the event of snowfall risk not reaching the citizen who needs help. People who have chosen to live along a road-coastal path – there are many – do not come to work and do not receive society's support in vulnerable situations. Madam President, I would like The fact that a lack of or a timely contribution from society increases the risk of people getting caught is clear to each of us. Not feeling sure about getting your way snowed to get to work or come to school risks excluding people. I have full respect for the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration keeps track of the procurement of winter road maintenance so that you get your contracted service done at the right price and at the right time. But it becomes incomprehensible from the perspective of society as a whole if the procurement of winter roads by state roads is made in such a way that simultaneous and parallel winter road maintenance along the road cannot be carried out. We risk that state zeal on one side of the system will lead to a socio-economic loss on the other. To the individual, who becomes hanging in the middle, this obviously seems incomprehensible.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-525	The answer we have received from the Government today is that he intends to follow the question. I am sure that people who look forward to, and to some extent dread, the arrival of winter want a more detailed answer on how to get to and from work, be able to drive children to school and know that home care and emergency services work. They want to know, and they expect the Government and the Government to do more than simply say that they intend to follow the matter after almost a year's knowledge of the problems.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-526	Madam President, I would like I myself come from a small community of 800 inhabitants, and I know what it means if snow clearance does not work. For me, it goes without saying that all the actors, both individual road operators, road hauliers and entrepreneurs, as well as government authorities or government agencies, have a special responsibility to ensure that the ambulance arrives and that the home service arrives. They have a great responsibility to fulfil these obligations. Similarly, it is self-evident that the Finnish Transport Administration ensures that the services it pays for are actually provided. Since the submission of the interpellation, I have ensured that this is the case, and I have had a dialogue with the Finnish Transport Agency and its Director-General on the matter. The Ministry of Industry has also had a dialogue and contact with a responsible operator, the state-owned company Svevia. I assume that the actors can find a solution. We cannot have a system in which we do not have snow clearance well organised. However, it is not true, as Anders Åkesson says, that the government has not done anything since last winter – quite the contrary. It is precisely last winter's attention that the Swedish Transport Administration, together with the National Association of Finnish Roads, have developed a joint action plan and that new procedures are now in place to inform about the procurements that exist and thus create a readiness to act. It is government funding that actually goes to Trafikverket, to one of the contractors and also to the individual road keepers. I can therefore also say that I assume that an adequate solution will be found in the near future. I believe that there are no differences politically between a social democrat and a centre party on this issue. This is a matter of security for people living in rural areas and for the whole of Sweden, because we all, if we are looking far away in our families, surely have someone who also lives in some other part of the country. It is therefore important for Sweden. Ambulances should be able to arrive, and home help should be able to arrive. It is, of course, important that we maintain that government money goes to what it is intended for. But it is also important that the actors know their responsibility for resolving the issue. I've been informed. We have a dialogue with the actors, and I assume that a good solution will be found in the future.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-530	Madam President, I would like The road system maintained and maintained by road consensuals, individual roads with state subsidies or whatever we now call it, often organised and represented by the National Association of Roads, is the country's longest integrated road network for miles. I know the government knows about this. It is quite right, where I share the Government's ambition, that the Swedish Transport Administration should keep its procurements in order. It's supposed to be bang for the money. But the Government needs to inform itself more, because the dialogue that was so meritoriously initiated between the Swedish Transport Administration and the National Association of Individual Roads has unfortunately not led to any result according to the information I have obtained. This dialogue stopped when the Swedish Transport Administration informs the National Association of Roads or Road Conveniences to the extent that they gradually procure new winter road maintenance. In its interpellation response, the Government states that it should allow for the coordination of snow clearance measures and that it could relate, for example, to measures to plan jointly for synchronised procurements. It is an ambition, the Government, but it fell when it reached the Swedish Transport Administration's lawyers. As the Government suggests, it became incomprehensible from the individual's perspective, i.e. for the individual who lives at a road consensualness, where the state over the state budget through state subsidies accounts for a large part of the operating cost to keep this available all year round. In addition, there are significant individual grants and often primary municipal grants. It becomes completely incomprehensible to this person, who stands by his unexploded individual road, when he or she notes that the state a mile or a few hundred meters away plows fully on the national road network but that there is no one who can do it on this unexploded individual road. We're supposed to be looking out for government money. That means, Madam President, that we should also use them economically effectively. This means that, in addition to keeping track of your expenses and getting it done as you have procured, the Swedish Transport Administration must also be able to relate to the conditions that prevail especially in northern Sweden, where it no longer teems with winter road owners who can step in when the state's procured contractors do not dare, do not want or may not take on the assignment. I am pleased that the Government is committed to this issue, and I am absolutely sure that the Government will ensure that it is resolved. But it is very urgent.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-535	Madam President, I would like I will mention some fundamental points of departure that may be important to keep track of in this context. I began the interpellation response by addressing what is nevertheless important for those following the debate to know. Individual road keepers are free to choose for themselves how to organise their winter road maintenance. It is not the Finnish Transport Administration that controls or decides, but it is individual road keepers who have the opportunity to choose. To the extent that Trafikverket's procured contractors have the opportunity to offer also individual road keepers services with winter road maintenance, such an agreement can be made. They met after last year. This resulted, as I understand it and was informed, in a whole plan of action. The Finnish Transport Agency would, among other things, inform individual road managers about future procurements. I note that there is also information in Anders Åkesson's interpellation that entrepreneurs would be charging more than SEK 20 000 if there were delays of ten minutes. Then I would like to say, just in case, because I have chosen to check this out, that the penalty payment for a ten-minute delay in these circumstances has never occurred and according to the Swedish Transport Administration is unlikely to occur either. Once that is said, I can feel myself that this is an issue that is not legal. It is hardly an economic issue either. It is basically about the responsibility of the actors responsible for resolving this issue, whether it is the state-owned company Svevia, the Finnish Transport Agency or the individual road keepers. I assume, and will inform me, that this responsibility is being taken on, because in Sweden we cannot have a system where ambulances, home help services or others cannot arrive. But it is also important to see what responsibility the individual road associations have in purchasing the right services and what resources they are prepared to make available, how entrepreneurs are prepared to also perform the services they say they will perform according to the contracts they sign and, of course, how the Finnish Transport Administration is prepared to pay and find flexible solutions for individual road managers for the services provided in connection with national roads. I believe that Anders Åkesson and I have the same both principled and political views on this. I also think it is a good thing that this issue should be brought to the fore, because it puts increasing pressure on the actors to find an appropriate solution. Government decisions or regulatory changes are not required. Rather, it is about finding a solution for northern Sweden in particular to a problem that arises on a few occasions. I have to say, however, that the starting point is right, namely that the Finnish Transport Administration wants to ensure that we actually get what we taxpayers pay for, i.e. provided services in the form of snow clearance on the roads for which it has contracted.
i-8b579d555a752dd6-539	Madam President, I would like Let me begin my speech with, so that I do not forget, to wish the Council of State and family a really merry Christmas. It's important. Sometimes it gets rough in the Chamber and in politics, but there are people behind it. Then you should always wish each other, as well as the President, a Merry Christmas. Having said that, I shall continue. Yes, the Government, of course, individual road owners are free to choose how they organise their road maintenance. But the reality in northern Värmland, northern Sweden and northern Dalarna is that it is not teeming with powerful snow clearance companies, in addition to those that state Transport and state Svevia contract or let any subcontractor. Good then that the whites aren't as tough as it's been communicated. It may increase the willingness to look at this pragmatically. Unfortunately, according to the information I have, the Government has the ambition to draw up an action plan stopped at that the Swedish Transport Administration informs. But I'm sure the Government will be able to inform itself. I believe, Madam President and the Government, that the important thing about today's interpellation debate on this will be a clear signal to all the actors that we have to meet, because it is just as the Government describes it that for man in the middle of the systems this becomes completely incomprehensible. Once again, Merry Christmas, Minister of State!
i-8b579d555a752dd6-544	Madam President, I would like The reason why I still wanted to point out that one is free to choose is that outside viewers who follow my and Anders Åkesson's debate probably believe that it is the Swedish Transport Administration that decides on its own how all snow clearance should be done. It's not like that. I am well aware that the market for rural entrepreneurs is limited. Most of the time, it's even the case that most people know each other fairly well. But the easier it should then be to find a sensible and good solution and let Anders Åkesson and me work together for this. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish both Anders Åkesson and the President and the rest of the House a really happy Christmas. I thank you for a good interpellation debate, and we will be seeing each other again in the new year. Thank you for today.
