i-cde31dacd5bacc28-15	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonson has asked me whether I intend to take any further action on the issue of a Swedish veteran centre to meet Parliament's wishes. Veteran issues are important to the government. The Government has decided that a maximum of SEK 30 million per year may be used for state grants to voluntary veteran soldiers and family members for activities that support the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel before, during and after serving in international operations and relatives. On 24 May this year, the Government decided to make veteran day a general flag day as of 29 May 2018. There is strong popular support for the veterans. Taking a clear responsibility for them is important for the defence's popular anchoring and strengthens the recruitment power to the Swedish Armed Forces. Operations are continuously being developed by the Swedish Armed Forces and other responsible actors. The Swedish Armed Forces' Veteran Centre was established on 1 July 2017 in Stockholm and supports, among other things, the Agency with development, implementation, follow-up and development of the Agency's veteran strategy. The starting points for the operation are the information set out in the 2016 regulatory letter to the Authority in this respect. The Swedish Armed Forces have concluded that a delegated model for veteran operations is the most appropriate and has therefore designed one. To deal with the fact that the veterans are spread throughout the country, there are now both so-called veteran coordinators and specialists in rehabilitation activities linked to each unit of the Swedish Armed Forces. The individual veteran can therefore turn to his home unit or, if it simplifies contacts for geographical or other reasons, to the closest unit for advice and guidance for contacts with different actors. In this context, it is important to emphasise the responsibility of ordinary healthcare to provide adequate care and other measures aimed at creating participation in society. Other neighbouring countries have chosen different concepts. The Government continuously monitors the work of the Swedish Armed Forces and other actors on veteran issues.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-19	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defense, for the answer to my interpellation! Sweden has a long tradition of sending soldiers into international operations. It is somewhere around 85 000 who have participated for 50 years. We have reason to be proud of this, for it is these individuals who take the greatest personal risks and make the greatest sacrifices that can actually be made in the service of the state. Behind every person sent on an international mission is often a family, friends and relatives. I think it is very important that they too receive the support they need for, during and after a mission abroad. While we can be proud, Mr President, of our foreign know-how, we cannot feel the same pride in the recognition and support that the state has given to our foreign veterans over the years. Here the state, and ultimately we politicians, have broken for too long. First of all, as the Minister for Defence says, it was only in 2011 that veteran day became state ceremonial day, although this activity has been going on for almost 50 years. It was only in 2015 that a prime minister took part in the veteran's day. It honors Stefan Löfven that he participated in it. It was only the year after that that veteran day became the flag day. Secondly, which is more serious, Sweden, unlike Norway and Finland, for example, sent soldiers out on sometimes dangerous and very demanding efforts for half a century, even though we did not have a veteran policy worthy of the name. I am thinking, for example, of actions such as Suez and Congo in the 60s, Afghanistan in the 00s and Bosnia and the Balkans in the 90s. Too many of them, although this is some time back, came home with both severe physical injuries and broken souls and did not receive the support they are entitled to expect from the state. In 2015, Mr President, Allan Widman left his final report Swedish veteran politics – A responsibility for the whole of society. It was an important step in further developing a coherent veteran policy. As the Minister for Defence now says, there is a veteran coordinator and specialists in rehabilitation out on virtually all units, and let me emphasise that I think it is a good business. I would add that very good activities are also taking place on a non-profit basis, not least by NGOs such as the Peace Berets, the Invid Zone and the Sports Veterans. We want to develop it further and strengthen it. I would also like to remind you that it is a very high exchange for the funds that the Swedish Armed Forces invests in the non-profit organisations. Mr President, I would like to Another suggestion by Allan Widman was that there should be a veteran centre for veterans and their relatives, and here one cannot say that the government has acted swiftly. After all, Parliament has had to announce twice to the government that a veteran center will be set up. Now, as the Minister for Defence says, a veteran centre was opened at Gärdet in Stockholm on 1 July this year. I have visited it myself, and it is very good and competent staff who work there. Many of them have experience of international action themselves. I think the centre is needed and think it is good that it is located in Stockholm, because it is easy for wheat canners to get there and go home again. But it is a significantly lower level of ambition than Allan Widman's proposal to have a veteran center where veterans and their relatives could regularly rest and recreation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence if he does not think it reasonable to further develop veteran policy by setting up a veteran centre where veterans and their relatives can come. There are such veteran centres in Denmark and Norway, for example.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-29	Mr President, I would like to We previously had a veteran unit that now evolved to become a veteran center from 1 July this year. The Veteran Centre, which has been established within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces, provides advice and guidance to veterans and their relatives. It ensures statutory monitoring responsibilities, including coordination and coordination with the rest of society. It works with merit and popular attachment, ensures relevant statistics and coordinates research on these issues across a broad field. I would like to emphasise that the Swedish Armed Forces have an established system for monitoring veterans up to five years after the end of the operation. It is also something that should be emphasised in this context. It is good that we have the veteran center, because it also means that there is support for the important work to be done on the units to keep in touch with veterans and in various ways be able to assist when different types of assistance and support are needed. It is a decentralised way of working with this, and it allows you to carry out operations as close to the place where veterans live as possible and thus avoid long journeys. It is also reasonable that health care has a responsibility and that we mark this responsibility for the veterans. We have a general system in Sweden, and it is about being able to get support and help via health care as close to the place of residence as possible. I think that Swedish veteran politics has developed. We are now providing support of 30 million to the voluntary veteran, soldier and family organisations. They organise various engagements to provide peer support and community and use the Swedish Armed Forces' various facilities to carry out these activities. So we already have infrastructure for this to be implemented. I attended the Congo veterans' annual meeting myself, and it was interesting to be there to talk and to hear their views on life. I understood that this organisation is very important to them. They took advantage of all the facilities at the Management Regiment in Enköping, and I know that other veteran organizations do the same. I think it is most important to support the activities so that peer support and the community can exist in different ways in practice. Veteran organisations themselves are perhaps one of the most important bodies when looking at how the aid should be developed and what the role of the state should be. Now we are going in with this money, and they are just going to develop the peer support. If this is to be organised by having a facility, using existing facilities or otherwise developing the business, a discussion should be held within these organisations. I am open to developing Swedish veteran politics in various ways. I think that there was far too little work on this point at one time and there is reason to criticise it. But now we are where we are, and we have taken an important step with the veteran centre set up in July this year.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-38	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Secretary of Defense. Perhaps the Swedish Armed Forces made it easy to move the veteran unit from the headquarters on Lidingövägen and opened it at Gärdet and called it a veteran center. But it's still a good start, and there are many good people working at the newly opened veteran center. However, it has certain limitations. Let me mention four of these. First of all, there is no place for recovery, rest and recreation for veterans where they can get easier support and treatment. Much of the veteran research suggests that just rest, recovery and recreation are important for the homecoming soldiers so that they do not get post-traumatic stress. Secondly, there is also no possibility for veterans to bring their relatives to this veteran center. What we know from veteran research is that the family often takes quite a beating when relatives are out on international efforts. Veterans are very different when they return home. Thirdly, and as the Minister for Defence has already touched on, the very idea of the veteran centre, in line with the investigation, was that it would function as a network organisation, a spider in the net, for all veteran organisations, doing a very good job of supporting all foreign veterans. Fourthly, today's veteran centre also has no opportunity to integrate veteran research into the centre itself, which is a shortcoming. Mr President, I would like to Veteran issues are one of the areas of Nordic cooperation in Nordefco. There are strong reasons for this. All the Nordic countries have a long tradition of contributing to UN efforts in particular, but in recent years also EU and NATO operations. I believe that almost a quarter of a million people have been sent out by the Nordic countries to various international peace-promoting efforts. There is much we can learn from each other, not least as regards the coordination of veteran research. It is clear, however, that Denmark and Norway have progressed further in their development of veteran politics than Sweden has. In this context, I would like to remind you that both Norway and Denmark are pursuing a devolved and decentralised veteran policy in the units but that they also have established veteran centres where veterans can receive support and treatment together with relatives. I therefore do not really share the view of the Minister for Defence in his reply that it is either or that it is between having a delegated model and having a veteran centre for veterans and their relatives. Allan Widman suggested in his investigation that Sweden should look especially closely at the Danish veteran centre in Ringsted and especially at the Norwegian veteran centre in Bæreia outside Kongsvinger when setting up a Swedish veteran center. I myself visited the veteran centre in Bæreia outside Kongsvinger and was deeply impressed by the activities carried out there. You have around 10,000 guest nights, you have family apartments and you have a generally high occupancy. It is a very successful operation. The Norwegian Centre is also the network organisation that we in Sweden also need for NGOs. It has also succeeded in integrating research issues. The Swedish Defence University in Karlstad, together with the University of Elverum in Norway, conducts research on the veterans in collaboration with the Norwegian veteran centre. I know that the Minister for Defence is a strong supporter of deeper Nordic cooperation. How does the Minister of Defence view further developing cooperation on veteran issues? Did they, in line with Allan Widman's investigation, look at the Norwegian and Danish veteran centres when they set up the Swedish centre?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-52	Mr President, I would like to If you need to tackle different types of problems with psychological function or if you are looking at other types of rehabilitation support, it must primarily be done close to the place of residence. Therefore, what is being done within the framework of health care is essential. It is important that we push the question of having to take account of the veterans and that the legislation in force ensures that they get the help and support they need. This is also the view of the Swedish Armed Forces. I do not think that this whole problem can be solved by setting up a central training centre or a recreation centre, but there must be constant monitoring in our health care system at local and regional level. This is where the focus of support and treatment must lie. This is also why they have chosen the line to have veteran supporters and specialists out on the units so that the veterans in their surroundings can get advice, support and help in different ways. As regards the form of how veterans want the purely peer-supporting activities, that discussion should be conducted within the framework of the various veteran organisations. It shows how best to develop these activities and how best to make use of the resources available to them. I have been in contact with many of these organisations and know that they have a central and important role. A great deal has happened in a short time. The veterinary unit has become a veteran center. Coordination of research across a broad scientific field takes place within the framework of this Centre. You can also give advice and guidance to veterans and their relatives, and you also have to ensure that follow-up is done. This organisation, like everything else on veteran issues, will gradually develop. We must bear in mind, however, that this was done on 1 July this year. It has only been a few months, and we must give this activity a little more time. I am prepared to discuss with veteran organisations, for example, how they think we should proceed. Then it is a question of how to create the economy for different types of initiatives in the sector. I have talked to many veterans over the years and heard about different kinds of needs. The picture I get is that if you have a problem and need a kind of support and help, it must be there quickly and it must be able to be followed up immediately. Many have gone and pulled things for a long time, and specialist functions are needed, even in their vicinity, so that you can take hold of it. I believe that in general health care, skills must be developed to deal with these kinds of issues, because they have a special character.
i-KcVDy98uU2jrLPe3KDs9vA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for this interpellation debate! I do not claim to solve everything by establishing a veteran centre where veterans and their relatives can be, but I think that would be an important step forward in further developing our veteran policy. Then we would have a structure that is more similar to the models that have been chosen in Norway and Denmark. This, I think, would be good for collaboration in veteran politics. I have respect for what the Minister for Defence says – that the veteran centre we have at Gärdet has been open for a few months – but I wanted to take the opportunity to run the debate to further develop the thinking on how to strengthen veteran policy. Like the Secretary of Defense, I have close contact with many of the veteran organizations, including the Peace Berets. I do not think that everyone is completely satisfied with the current order of things, but I think that there is reason to further develop veteran policy. To conclude, Mr President, I have a brief reflection, a little more overall, or a contribution. In the Swedish Armed Forces' operations, the focus is now on the national mission, for the intended reason. The volume of international efforts has fallen, and today it is 500 people, compared with almost 1 000 a few years ago. I would like to emphasise that this does not lessen the need to develop a coherent veteran policy. This is a responsibility for the whole of society, no matter how many people happen to be in international action at the moment. As I have said, the pendulum often strikes quickly in the defence policy, sometimes a little too fast. It changes fundamentally between the national and international missions, because defence policy is an event – it is an activity. Those who claim that veteran politics is no longer a priority, I believe, are making a serious mistake.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-65	Mr President, I would like to I agree with that. If someone goes around and thinks that veteran politics should not be a priority activity, at least I do not share that view. It is good that Pål Jonson says that there has been too much of rapid change. I do not believe in the kind of long-term activity that defence and security policy is. It takes a long time to build military capability, but it's fast to collapse. When the winds turn, you have a long uphill, and it is an experience that we must learn from for the future. In itself, I think that this could have been done by taking part in the different wing strokes of history, but now it is what it is. We have to build on the situation we have today. I do not think that the situation in this area, as in many other areas of defence policy, is satisfactory, but I see that we have a development mandate for most areas. It is about gradually building a better and functioning organisation. I note that we have now taken this step with a veteran centre from 1 July this year. We have a group of people working on these things, for which I've explained. I welcome the fact that there is an interest in debating these issues. Here it is important to get different types of ideas together from different directions in order to be able to do something even better. I am prepared to take part in ideas from both Norway and Denmark, but also from Finland, which has extensive experience in veteran activities. But in the end, I think we need to see how we should do the best in Sweden today based on the exact needs we have here and how we assess the future. To take part of ideas and take in tasks but continue to design a Swedish model may be a way to go. I am prepared to discuss this with the veteran organisations.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-71	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that promises of investment in more nurses are fulfilled and that elderly care receives the competent staff required. Staff is the most important resource in care for the elderly. It is thanks to the competent and hard-working staff that Swedish elderly care is as good as it is. Most often women – nine out of ten working in elderly care are women. Since we have understood the seriousness of the matter, the government has made great efforts in this area. The already completed investment in welfare of SEK 10 billion to municipalities and county councils is now being expanded with an additional SEK 5 billion. Among other things, it should go to more nurses and shorter care periods. In addition, healthcare will be strengthened by 5 1⁄2 billion in 2018 compared to the addition to the 2017 budget bill. It's the biggest medical investment in modern times. The Government is investing SEK 7 billion in increased staffing in elderly care during the period 2015– 2017. During 2016, 97 per cent of the funds have been used, and all municipalities have taken part of the money. The staffing effort has contributed to 5,000 year-olds. Better working environment and improved quality for the individual are some of the effects reported by the National Board of Health and Welfare. The efforts on staffing in elderly care are initiatives on gender equality and women's work environment. The funds may only be used for staff working closely with the elderly, which creates additional conditions for employing competent staff. In addition, at the end of October more than 6,500 additional services were provided in municipalities as an addition to the important work carried out by municipalities. The nurses, as Katarina Brännström asked about, are Sweden's largest professional group. They play a crucial role in the care and care provided to older people. In order to clarify the important professional role of nurses and to ensure long-term competence in welfare activities, the Government has set up an investigation. It shall make suggestions on how the profession of assistant nurse can be clarified and regulated. In order to promote a better working environment, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Work Environment Authority to carry out national supervision of elderly care. The aim is to contribute to reducing the high level of absenteeism, the number of occupational diseases, musculoskeletal injuries and accidents that are characteristic of this sector. There is a shortage of labour in large occupational groups such as nurses. To counter this shortage, the government has made an educational effort for people with fixed-term employment in the care of the elderly and in the healthcare sector. The government has also increased its efforts towards a permanent knowledge boost with more permanent training places in vocational adult education. These efforts will enable more people to receive vocational training for, among other things, work in the care of the elderly. These measures together form a strong package to improve the availability of skilled staff in care for the elderly.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-81	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. This is an urgent issue, we know that. I'm sure it'll be up to date for a long time. In this profession, as the Minister says, there are the most women, and it means a lot to Swedish welfare. Unfortunately, I cannot read out the answer to the question I asked, namely how many nurses there actually were in the care of the elderly. Strong promises were made by both the Prime Minister and the Government about the billions invested, which would lead to 4,500 nurses. The Government reports on what the Government is doing in health care and care for the elderly, and much of this is good. But that is absolutely necessary, because we have a new Sweden. It is a fairly rapid development of how many citizens we are. With growing demographic trends, there is an imbalance with an increasing number of older people. It is difficult to find staff, both competent staff and other staff. There are also large retirements underway in this particular area. I would therefore like to emphasise that every government would have to do this, regardless of the party colour. As the population grows, we need to expand welfare. We also need to have more training places to find the nurses that are required. It sometimes sounds almost a bit boastful when you talk about how much you bet. But I would see it more as something that is absolutely necessary and which, unfortunately, may also prove to be insufficient, because we all know that there is a great shortage of labour in many professions in welfare. It's about nurses, nurses, doctors, police, teachers, psychologists and a number of others. I think we need to start looking at the whole welfare area with a sober vision. We can't be satisfied. We need to look at this in the long term, as many are getting older. Although all of us are now healthier far up in the years, we still need quite a lot of care and care in recent times. The National Board of Health and Welfare's summary states that six out of ten of the barely 5,000 year-olds mentioned by the Government in their reply are nurses. When they recounted this, it was at best about 3,000 year-olds. So we have a deficit. I think the Government knows that and may not be satisfied with the reality either. We know that there is a staff flight, and we should all perhaps reflect on the poor working conditions and how little one can influence one's work. Wages are not too high either. This means that the care queues double and that those who work still have a very heavy burden. It is interesting to hear how the government will resolve this issue. Regardless of the elections next year, I think we all need to think about how we can cope with the welfare and the increased demands that will be made. 20 000 additional posts were promised. Now, one year before the election, they're 6,500. It also shows how difficult it is to actually make this effort so that it becomes a result. I would like to know how to look at this a little long-term, not just what will become of these billions. How do you intend to invest in welfare in the future?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-93	Mr President, I would like to I think that we have quite a lot of consensus on the problem and that this must be a strong sector for those who need care, that is, the elderly, and that people who work there should have as good conditions as they can, as they deserve and who make them want to work there and can be proud of the job. I think it is good that we have this consensus, because this really is a major social issue, as Katarina Brännström says. It is to be hoped that all governments will make these efforts. But we have made them because we take the issue seriously. I, also a Minister for Gender Equality, see very large gender issues in this context. To be honest, perhaps our parties at municipal level have not always done enough. Since neither you nor I are going to decide on conditions, one might ask why these large professions still have these rather poor working conditions. Now you're working on it more and more. The number of full-time jobs is increasing, you also try to get to the problem of shared tours and so on. But there is something here that has to do with gender. At least I see it that way. That doesn't make the problem any less. What you need to do besides investing resources – it's necessary – is to see the people who are immigrants to Sweden as the great resources they are, without saying that right here women with foreign background will work. I think they should choose it for themselves, just as I get to choose it myself. But after all, if you want to train yourself to something where you are likely to have the opportunity to work safely and with ever better conditions, because I think, then elderly care is a good alternative. In the same way, I think men should compete with women for these future jobs. I believe that there is more to be done at both national and municipal level to ensure that these future professions really attract men. I think, of course, that the extra services are very important as a way of attracting interest in these jobs. The fact that we are reviewing the issue of identification is also part of increasing knowledge about what nurses are doing and thus also increasing the status. Katarina Brännström says it's bragging, and one might think that politics is a rather boastful industry at times. However, I think it is very important to say that care for the elderly is something that we want to invest in. If you are about to apply for an education, you must feel that there are more than you think that this is important. Sometimes in the debate, we rightly focus on the shortcomings that exist. However, we overlook the fact that, for example, open comparisons show that older people, both those receiving home care and those living in retirement homes, are often very satisfied with the care they receive. That was also true in your time. The fact that we may not mention it so often, sometimes for fear that we would not understand the problems, may discourage even more people. There are a lot of things that work in the care of the elderly. Above all, this is because of all these knowledgeable and diligent people who want nothing but to serve the elderly whom they are actually for.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-100	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what the Government says. I think it is important that we highlight these issues because we need to have better conditions for this group. I agree that the municipalities are not doing quite as much as they could. I think the government has done a lot of good things. But that's not supposed to be enough. We are facing a huge challenge in this sector. We can see that the profession of nurse is not very attractive. You have a small opportunity to influence your job. You have to work weekends, and those are tough work schedules. I and many with me believe that there is a need for more professions in health care. At one time when I worked in the county council for a short time, there were health care assistants who did many tasks. I think that many of those who have come to Sweden in recent years could take jobs where language skills are not so crucial. This would also increase the status of both nurses and nurses. I think you have to start thinking a little wider. At the same time, it is the way that SKL warns that more than half of the country's municipalities find it difficult to find nurses. It has never been so difficult to get qualified staff. This risks putting the entire quality of care out of play, and I don't think any of us want that. That's why it's urgent. When I make study visits to nursing homes in my municipality, they tell me that it is very difficult to find competent staff. Then there will be a very large turnover of the staff, and the sickness rates are also very high. Sickness rates are highest in the public sector. I can therefore be alarmed that this government is now threatening the private sector where care for the elderly is being exercised, through Reepalus's strange proposal to stop profits. There is a risk that we will be standing there with an even greater problem if these companies do not exist. It also turns out that the well-being of nurses is greater in the private sector, and the care providers are more satisfied in that sector. Then I think the government should reconsider and see that this is a major factor for those who will work in welfare and for the whole welfare. There should be more players and not fewer. We need attractive workplaces, so nurses want to work there. It must be a sector that provides a good future for younger people, so that they want to educate themselves for it. I think there is a large area that we need to address in every way. We in this House cannot affect salaries and conditions. But I think there must be a lift here; otherwise we will slip behind. People of my generation and those who follow will not be satisfied but will make quite a lot of demands. This will require the presence of skilled and competent people in care for the elderly and in care. I think we fully agree on this. But then the government must take this very seriously and not actually oppose the forces that function well in this welfare sector.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-108	Mr President, I would like to That it is important to get to grips with the conditions in this industry but that it is not we who should do so, I very much agree. On the other hand, we can debate, and it has great value in itself. I ordered a file on quality in care for the elderly. I intend to present a plan for how we can raise it, and there are recruitment issues and future skills provision a great deal. Unfortunately, the study found that Sweden is different from the other Nordic countries in many respects, for example when it comes to how many people are head of elderly care. It is also about greater presence of shared tours and other similar things. There are a lot of things we as a country need to deal with at the different levels for which we are responsible. We have talked about this before; I am not against private alternatives in health care or in the field of social services. However, I am in favour of competing to give the elderly the absolute best quality, as in this case. I would have liked it to have also competed for staff conditions, but we cannot see that this is happening. There are not big differences. In some respects, public employers are better at caring for the elderly, and in some cases they are better off in the private sector. However, we have not had a great deal of pressure up as the private alternatives have come in, and I would have liked that to be the case. That is why I very clearly see this as an issue of equality. It is about the fact that the industry is dominated by women, and it has little to do with Reepalu. However, I do of course think that the tax resources we spend, and for which we work hard, should be used for urgent areas such as care for the elderly and not for very big profits. However, I would like to see private alternatives in this industry as well. I will present the quality plan. As far as skills provision is concerned, we already know that vocational training and adult education are also important in order to arouse interest in working in the care of the elderly. That's what we're betting on, and I think we need to do even more.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-113	Mr President, I would like to We agree on a great deal about both the needs and the crisis we can actually see in welfare and care for the elderly. We fully agree that we need more nurses. However, I still cannot understand why the private sector is being threatened. After all, there will be an even greater crisis if the proposal goes through, and it will not give us any more nurses. It will not solve either gender issues or anything else. We need more performers and more employers. We need many more of different kinds, because I think it is only when we can get an attraction in this whole profession. It now turns out that the public sector is cracking in many areas, and people are seeking their way from there. People do not want to work as teachers, for example, to the extent that we now demand. Of course, a lot of people want to work there, but we need a big inflow and we can't see it coming. There are not huge profits in this area, and if that is the problem, we will have to solve it in other ways than banning or removing a large proportion of the performers in the sector. I agree that we need many more men in this business, because then I think we would also get wages up. Unfortunately, it is so bad that we are forced to say so. But there are major shortcomings. It's hard to get personnel, and SKL's alerting. I think that this government and the next government need to raise the issue, because it is so important and crucial to what the elderly care system will look like in the future.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-117	Mr President, I would like to We have invested a great deal of money in this industry precisely because we see the need for more staff both in the short term and in the long term, and we should know that we will continue to do so. It's a piece of the puzzle. However, it is also important to raise the status of these jobs and raise the status of what women already do. I would also like men to compete for these future jobs and that is the feeling they have. Then, I think, it is a question of describing even better what is actually being done in this sector. What meetings do you have? When I'm out visiting activities in elderly care, which I often am, the elderly usually ask me to take care of the staff and not them. Because they think they're being taken care of. They talk a lot about existential issues. You said that I too will set high standards when I need care for the elderly, Katarina Brännström. Already today we are introducing a perspective that is perhaps not traditionally expected to take care of or have so much too much time for elderly care, namely meaningfulness. It is not easy to say what the policy should have in terms of meaningfulness, but it is probably quite a lot about seeing the individuals. Who are you? What do you need? How can I make sure that you can meet other people you would have an exchange of? How can I give myself time for your big, existential questions? I believe in all this. We need to invest in what we have traditionally done – we have responsibility for recruitment, training places, funds for these sectors at municipal level and conditions – but it will be even more about quality as such, I think.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-121	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me how I see the lack of retirement homes and what I intend to do to get more retirement homes. The government has made extensive efforts on welfare. In this budget, work continues, and the government announces a further increase in the general state grant to municipalities and county councils in 2019. In addition to the general grants, the Government proposes increased targeted grants to the county councils. Major efforts are being made on psychiatry and primary care. In total, care will be strengthened by 5 1⁄2 billion next year. It's the biggest medical investment in modern times. Overall, the Government's efforts during the term of office have strengthened welfare by more than SEK 35 billion in 2018. This means that municipalities and county councils stand stronger to ensure that elderly people receive good quality care and care when they need it. A home, a home, where you feel safe, is a basic part of the quality of life for most of us. For those with greater need for care, a home in special housing may be preferable. The government continues with the investment investment investment initiative for more housing for the elderly. The investment has gradually increased from SEK 150 million in 2016 to SEK 400 million in 2018. The support aims to increase the number of homes for the elderly, thereby improving accessibility and increasing opportunities for community and security for the elderly. According to Boverket, the aid has been granted to 2,524 newly built apartments and 438 newly added apartments through renovation and has contributed to the completion of approximately 900 new apartments during the period between November 2016 and October this year. Too many older people feel insecure and lonely in their living despite help from the home service. These people would need more secure housing even if they are not in need of service and care at all times of the day, which is usually a criterion for moving into the special accommodations that exist today. A new form of special housing can then be of great value to these people. The Government has therefore taken the initiative to give municipalities the power to establish special housing arrangements for older people who need support and help in housing and other easily accessible services. The target group is older people who do not need around the clock care.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-127	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. This is also an important area in which we will have a major challenge ahead of us. The question is: How sick and old do you really have to be in order to fit in a retirement home? I believe that more and more people are asking this question, not least the relatives of those belonging to this group. In recent years it has become much more difficult to get to a retirement home, and more and more people are forced to stay at home even though they have a great need for care. It is unsafe, not least for the relatives. Unfortunately, however, old people have no choice – when many municipalities have a large shortage of places in housing for older people, it is difficult to do anything else. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's annual report on the state of health care and care care, there are difficulties in recruiting and retaining staff, as we discussed in the previous debate. Last year, 5 000 older people were granted special housing. So it was 5,000 who had to wait more than three months to get this place. Some people have to wait a very long time in some municipalities. At the current construction rate, the shortage is expected to increase by 20 000 additional seats by 2030, according to the National Board of Health and Welfare. So it's 13 years from now. It's not forever. Recent analyses also show that a move to retirement homes is usually preceded by a hospital stay. You don't have time to live there very long – just over two out of ten died within the first half of the year, which indicates that you are in very bad condition once you get to such an accommodation. According to Boverket, there is now a shortage of retirement homes in as many as 66 of Sweden's 290 municipalities, i.e. in 40 per cent of the municipalities. It must be said that this is a betrayal of our elders. We know that Sweden's population is ageing. Today, more than 2 million people are over 65 years old; in 20 years' time, there will be 2.6 million. The group that is 85 or older is growing quite fast, so we need to plan for more special accommodations and also for new forms of accommodation. Even if we are getting healthier, a day will come when we cannot manage ourselves, and then it is the task of society to solve this. The government said in its response to my interpellation that the government is increasing investment support. That's good, because this support was very low. If you knock out the 150 million in all of Sweden's municipalities, it will be no more than 1 million per municipality for two years. There will be little stimulus, nor will there be 400 million, as it will be next year. It is difficult to see the overall stimulus of these efforts. The need for retirement homes is here to stay and will probably grow, because we are living longer and longer. In 30 years' time, it is estimated that the proportion of people over 85 years old will double today. There must be pressure on municipalities to build even without state aid. They will build for all their inhabitants, whether they are old or young. I think that we need to think together about what can be pressured on the municipalities to do. In recent years, opportunities for the most ill elderly to live in retirement homes have been limited. More and more people remain at home, despite extensive medical needs. This is an important and urgent issue, and I think we will discuss it many times in the future. Too little is being done, and the need is great.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-139	Mr President, I would like to Here, too, we share the view that the issue is urgent. Against this background, the Government has initiated investment support, which is flexible and is reportedly also perceived as flexible from the point of view of the municipalities. That is very much in demand, and I am no stranger to increasing the funds for this type of effort. What is perhaps even more important are the large public subsidies that go to the municipalities. Of course, the municipalities are free to use these contributions for this – I even hope they do, because it is a well-known fact that these needs are very large. Unfortunately, the number of retirement homes in municipalities decreased until about two years ago, despite an increase in the need. It is therefore important to reverse developments in this area. I also believe that it could be helpful to give municipalities the opportunity to introduce a form of housing for people who are not yet deemed to need retirement homes within the meaning of the law. Here both the municipality and the elderly would benefit from the elderly living in a place that the municipality organises, even if the person does not meet the criteria for retirement homes. The elderly would have extensive home care but would not have it all the time. You wouldn't have to be staffed 24 hours a day. Many elderly people are asking for this. They feel safer and may be able to meet neighbors there. In my world it could be organised so that these accommodations can either be converted into retirement homes when the elderly need it or that the elderly can move to a nearby place. For those who are older and in great need, it is not desirable to have to move. It is important that the municipalities build. It is important to stimulate. It is important that large state subsidies are used in the light of demographic developments. I and the Minister of Housing gathered actors when the Investment Aid Act came into force to tell them about it and to hear their views on it. I have to admit that I thought that they would address above all regulatory changes and other things that developers, builders and municipalities wanted to see. But what they pointed out above all in terms of construction in general was the low income of women. Many women who become single and are looking for housing have a low ability to pay, in relation to our previous debate. It may be that you have worked in elderly care all your life and then unfortunately have so low income and pension that you simply find it difficult to be a strong customer in the housing market. The efforts we have made will help. However, we must do more, both now and in the future.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-148	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the investment aid – if we are going to dwell on it for a little while – has a particularly significant impact at all. It's about far too little money. In order to achieve something properly, you would have to invest considerably more. A million to every municipality will not provide new housing. In the case of the large public subsidies granted to municipalities, it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide over this money. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the municipalities are dedicating them to building more accommodations. It has become that you try to stay away from this problem – you don't see it but sweep it under the carpet. People are allowed to stay at home with great efforts, which puts pressure on those who are going to work with these people. This partly touches on the debate we had earlier. In Sweden it is very complicated and expensive to build. This is true of ordinary dwellings, and it is not cheaper to build special dwellings. I think what is in demand are other types of accommodation – more like a hotel accommodation – which the Minister was a bit into. For example, most do not need a kitchen. There is too little competition in Sweden when we build, and the costs are too high – we can see that. Today we see a tendency to build quite luxurious retirement homes with swimming pools, gyms and many other nice things. But very few people will be able to afford to live there. It feels like no one has any interest in the simple homes. I think we need to press for government action on this issue. It is the government that is responsible for people having a place to live – even if it is the municipalities that are doing it – and too little is done. This week I visited a dwelling in Ljungby called the Opinion. I can really recommend it. There was a shelter in the same house as the retirement home. It was very easy. You came in like a hotel reception. If you went one way, you went to your own apartment-- there were very nice activities in the house. Instead, if you went the other way, you came to the retirement home, where there was all the effort needed. There is a very long queue to this accommodation. I think you have to start thinking more like that to get it together. It is a big problem that we have too few retirement homes in Sweden. You should not be so old that you only live there for a few months, because then the whole environment that was thought of the retirement home will fall. Now that I have visited nursing homes, I have also noticed that senildementa is mixed with others who are not senile, which makes those who are, so to speak, healthy in the brain but infirm in the body become depressed. They don't like to see those who are so bad. I would say that the whole care of the elderly has become worse in the sense that it is no longer possible with special departments, for example, which were only ten years ago. You don't build it either. I think we should think about how we can build simpler and cheaper while maintaining the quality of those who live there – that's why we're building. Getting there in the last few months of life is not worthy. You should be able to get a shelter for the last years of your life if you need it. Things must then be put in place in many areas, apart from ours. It can be about building standards and other things. I think we need to push and highlight these issues. More retirement homes need to be built. It is not worthy that people sit alone at home and feel insecure and have relatives trying to corner themselves to solve everything. That's not how it's supposed to be in Sweden.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-164	Mr President, I would like to The development that the number of places of residence has decreased rather than increased was evident during the reign of the Alliance. It was known even then, and despite the fact that the party responsible for these questions asked the pledges of guarantees on which elections were held, nothing happened. Progress continued to reverse. I am therefore pleased that the efforts we have made have produced concrete results. However, I agree that we need to do even more in this area. General state grants are largely due to the fact that municipalities have asked for them. They want to avoid bureaucracy, reeds and so on. They feel themselves competent to use the means. However, I think it is important for those of us who have responsibility at national level to remind us that if you have so much money and so much responsibility – because that is the case – you must also invest in groups that cannot make their voice heard or organise themselves when the needs are greatest. Older people, and especially those with memory disorders, find it difficult to make their voice heard. Municipalities therefore have a huge responsibility, and the funds allocated to the local government sector are the largest ever. It's uneven in the country. Some municipalities have good access to retirement homes and places in retirement homes, while others have queues. In the care of the elderly and in the work of social services, the needs and will of the elderly must always be the starting point. A lot of people want to live at home as long as they can, and then they'll have to do it in good shape. On the other hand, many people become prisoners at home when they do not get the efforts they need or when they feel that the offer of retirement homes comes unreasonably late. They may also be judged but still have to wait. I myself have a very close relative who has a memory disease and lives in a retirement home. My view from that experience and all my visits there is that the staff are really doing a great deal to make it good for those people who need care. But if there are more places, it is of course possible to make it more flexible based on the older person's starting point. In any case, this is a very big issue both now and in the future. We have a need now, and we have a need in the future. The bets we make work. I think it's good to follow up with evaluations, because then you find out if a particular form works and can bet on it. With regard to general state subsidies, it is important to recall that large groups, such as the elderly who are infirm, have rights that must be met, and that is a common issue for all. I am proud of the large state subsidies, but I am also very keen that they are used for groups that have great needs, such as the elderly.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-172	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says that the residents also decreased during the alliance period, and I actually believe that is true. However, we must recall the deep economic crisis of 2008 and the recession that lasted for a very long time. Now we are in a long boom. In addition, the government has increased its taxes a great deal. Investing in this business should be a golden location. We see that the problems are growing. One might ask what it will be like in a recession. The shortage currently exists in 166 out of 290 municipalities. This is not a problem that is solved now or even tomorrow; it takes time to build accommodations. I think that perhaps we should consider the system that exists for preschool classes, namely that the municipalities will have to pay if they do not keep their promises. Maybe this is how it should be for the elderly too. As the Minister says, it is not worthy to have to be a prisoner at home when you are at your most fragile and infirm. There will also be a huge burden on those who will take care of these. I know some municipalities that even have empty spaces. So there is a great imbalance. Nor can we ignore the fact that this is a cost issue for the municipalities. It is cheaper to have the old ones at home, even if the quality is low. We need to raise the issue on many levels. There is a need for cheaper and better accommodation, but also for simpler accommodations that are of good quality, for that we should have for those who are old and really in need of society's efforts. The old have nothing else to do with it.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-178	Mr President, I would like to This is an urgent debate. As I see it, you chose to lower taxes. We choose to invest in welfare, not least in this area. This applies both to care for the elderly and to nursing homes, but also to large state grants. The issue is huge. It's about access in places. I am very keen that the problem be resolved in the short as well as in the long term. I think it is good that we have a consensus on the great need here. I am also pleased that the investments we have already made have achieved results, but we need to do more. Whatever we do, we should have the needs of the elderly in mind. I hope that opportunities for one step ahead of traditional retirement homes will facilitate. It will not solve all the problems, but it may make things easier for some. I agree that we also need to think in new ways and get ideas on this. But above all, funding, planning and responsibility are needed.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-181	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me what measures I and the government are taking to equip Sweden for the next recession. At the start of the financial crisis, Sweden had significant surpluses in public finances. These were then used to stimulate the economy during the crisis, which was correct from a stabilisation policy perspective. However, the bourgeois government continued to lower the tax on borrowed money after the crisis was over. The deficits increased every year in 2012 – 2014 while the economic cycle turned up. In 2014, the general government deficit was approximately SEK 60 billion, which was almost three times as high as in 2009, i.e. during the financial crisis itself. For the third time out of three possible, a bourgeois government left behind large deficits in public finances. Since the government took office, this deficit has been turned into a large surplus. Public finances are strong and have shown surpluses all the years, while we have made urgent investments in welfare to close the gaps in welfare left by the previous bourgeois government. In addition, the Institute of Economics has shown that spending on welfare and public investment is more effective in increasing growth and employment rapidly than general income tax reductions. I note that, thanks to the government's policy, Sweden is now well equipped for the next recession. Over the past three years, the government has consistently put investments in sustainable society before unfunded and unfair tax cuts. The government has pursued a well-thought-out policy to widen bottlenecks in the labour and housing markets. Responsibility for public finances has characterised reform policy, and today the results are clearly visible. We propose that SEK 40 billion, or approximately 1 per cent of GDP, be used to pay off the government debt in 2018. Government debt in relation to GDP is now back at the same level as in 1977, which gives room to dampen the economic downturn when it comes. It is important that we continue to pay off our national debt so that we can equip ourselves for worse times. That is how margins in the next recession are built up, not through unfunded tax cuts. At the same time, we estimate that approximately SEK 40 billion can be used for important structural reforms to strengthen the Swedish model. It is good that even Niklas Wykman now sees that the need for well-being is increasing and that it is important to have more long-term funding for welfare. As the population grows, with more children and more elderly people, it requires jointly funded investments in health care, care for the elderly, preschool and school. This is precisely what we are investing in in the 2018 budget bill.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-187	Mr President, I would like to We have been able to read about the Minister for Finance's possible party leadership ambitions in Dagens Nyheter, among other things. I am the first to have a great deal of understanding that a person who has great political ambitions must also satisfy many groups. However, I cannot compete with the Minister for Finance in political rhetoric and politics, but instead want to hold the Minister for Finance to account, not for various historical events, but for the course for which the Minister for Finance is now responsible. It is about the management of public finances. In order for us to have a good and qualified debate that rises above what one might say when speaking on, for example, an SSU education, Sweden has expert authorities to evaluate and follow the work of the government. I will now account for some of what they have said. The Swedish Financial Control Agency writes:- The current surplus target, of a surplus of 1 per cent of B NP over a business cycle, extends until 2018. The ESV concludes that the surplus target is not met. A new lower target level will apply from 2019. This target level is also not achieved according to the current forecast. ..................................................... The Government's own body, the Financial Policy Council, writes: In view of the cyclical situation and the surplus target, the policy should be much more rigid. ..................................................... The Swedish National Audit Office signs the heading – – The government does not present any arguments for... weakening savings in 2017. The measures in the budget bill contribute to a weakening of savings in 2017. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore considers it difficult to find support in the fiscal framework to take unfunded measures in 2017. ..................................................... The Institute of Economics writes:...The government's heavily underfunded budget for 2018 is not deemed to be in line with the surplus target. ..................................................... The Minister of Finance here gave a speech on how she views the historical developments in Sweden. That description is seriously incorrect. I can refer to what Social Democrats themselves have said, such as Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt. The evaluation carried out by the Social Democrats at the Ministry of Finance in the 1990s also showed clearly how it was the expansionary and irresponsible policy that led to the crisis in the early 90s. Instead, the Minister of Finance of the Alliance Government has been rewarded as Europe's best Minister of Finance and praised for Sweden's way of coping with the previous recession and crisis. Is it really enough to have a finance minister trying to rewrite history and distort the past? The Minister for Finance's answer does not say how to look at the very wide-ranging criticism of the Minister for Finance's way of managing public finances. According to the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the Council of Finance Policy, the Swedish National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs, Magdalena Andersson does not manage public finances in accordance with the fiscal framework. Instead of just trying to revise or rewrite history, it would be a good idea for the Minister of Finance to take responsibility for the current situation. When we entered the recession in 2008, we had just over 3 per cent savings as a share of GDP in public finances. Now we have about 1%, that is, a third, and the Finance Minister is failing by all the expert authorities.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-196	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Niklas Wykman you might recall that after working at the Ministry of Finance he left behind a deficit of SEK 60 billion. It is the biggest deficit we have had in Sweden since the budgetary adjustment in the 1990s. Niklas Wykman refers to the 2008-2009 financial crisis. As I said in my interpellation response, that is not where I direct the criticism of how the Moderates handled public finances, but what they did in 2012-2014, when they continued to lower the tax on borrowed money, even though the economic cycle turned upwards. United expert authorities have also made it clear that at the time when Niklas Wykman was in the Ministry of Finance, too much was borrowed to reduce the tax. If we look around the world and look at what international assessors think about the Swedish economy, we see unanimous assessments from the International Monetary Fund, the OECD and the European Commission. The government's policy is judged to be balanced. We pay off our national debt by SEK 40 billion but we also deal with the problems that Sweden has here and now. It is a way of running public finances that attracts attention abroad, but not in the way Niklas Wykman seems to see it. Rather, it is a matter of keeping order and dealing with the problems that we see. In a situation where the police do not have time to investigate crimes, where pregnant women are worried about getting a place at the BB when it is time to give birth and where parents worry about whether the children learn enough in school, a responsible government will of course deal with those problems, while collecting in the barns for the next recession. We have done so during this parliamentary term by paying off the public debt by 10 percentage points.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-199	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Minister for Finance wants to change the subject and have a broader political discussion. This is in line with political ambitions, and it is also, of course, in line with trying to bypass the discussion that is at stake here. The Financial Control Agency says that the Minister of Finance is unable to carry out his task in accordance with the fiscal framework. The Council of Finance Ministers says that the Minister of Finance is unable to carry out his task in accordance with the fiscal framework. The Swedish National Audit Office says that they do not find any support for the expansionary policy that the government pursues. The Institute of Economics states very clearly that the Minister of Finance is unable to conduct budgetary policy in accordance with the fiscal framework. A Minister of Finance who is failing the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the Council of Finance Policy, the Swedish National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs are of course not happy to talk about his responsibility for public finances. However, taking responsibility for public finances is the core task of a finance minister. Magdalena Andersson tried to make the cards disappear by saying that previous governments also received criticism. Yeah, that's why you have this kind of government. But not once did the Fiscal Council say that previous government policies would not have been balanced or would not have been conducted in accordance with the fiscal framework. Only Magdalena Andersson has been rejected by the Council of Finance Policy, no one else. I also understand that the Minister of Finance is willing to try to make the cards go away by talking about surpluses and deficits in as simple a way as possible. It is clear that one should have deficits in recession and surpluses in boom. But the Minister of Finance knows, of course, that it is a little more complicated than that. The economy should be stimulated when what is called the output gap is negative, that is, when we have unused resources in the economy, and it should be tightened when we have positive output gap, which means that we use the resources more than is customary in the economy. According to the Konjunkturinstitutet, the break from negative to positive gap occurred in 2016. According to the Financial Policy Council and the Riksbank, it also occurred in 2016. According to their own department, it occurred in 2017. It was reasonable to pursue a stimulating or somewhat stimulating policy as long as the output gap was negative. Then, of course, one should pursue a tightening policy, and that time is now. However, all the authorities consider that the Minister for Finance is pursuing an overexpansionary policy. This means that none of what Magdalena Andersson has just said is true. It was therefore not the case that Sweden was experiencing strong growth during the years referred to by the Minister for Finance. We had a negative output gap, which, according to the usual economic theory, means the continuation of a mild or even to some extent a relatively powerful stimulus to the economy. What the Minister of Finance said is simply not true. This is how it sounds when a finance minister wants to conjure up the cards and simplify the discussion in such a way that one can possibly score political points but in no way gain the credibility of an established economist. This is also why the Financial Policy Council, the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the Institute of Economics and the Swedish National Audit Office say that the government's policies are not compatible with the fiscal framework. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Finance obviously does not want this discussion. She wants a more mixed and general political debate where you can say things that sound good. But it is not enough as a Minister of Finance to say things that sound good. On Magdalena Andersson's shoulders lies responsibility for public finances, the shelters we need when the next crisis strikes. There's the truth that we don't even have a third of the shelters we had before 2008, and in 2008 we barely made it anyway.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-208	Mr President, I would like to I still have to remind Niklas Wykman of his own story and the moderate story when he burns himself up like this. Niklas Wykman is talking about the output gap. There is something called structural savings. It is absolutely the case that we should conduct a fiscal policy that takes account of the economic situation. You cannot just look at surpluses and deficits. That is why we have structural savings. That is exactly what we are following, not least in the new fiscal framework. There we could see that during Niklas Wykman's time at the Ministry of Finance there was a very large amount of structural savings, even when one takes account of the economic situation, and that was left behind. What happened when Niklas Wykman worked at the Ministry of Finance was that public finances deteriorated every year, in boom, in recession and even when the economy improved. As the economic cycle improved, deficits increased during Niklas Wykman's time. That is not the way to conduct economic policy. One cannot increase deficits each year and borrow for tax reductions year after year. What takes a beating and then gets hurt is welfare. There is an ideological difference between Moderates and Social Democrats. We Social Democrats are protecting welfare, and so we are also protecting public finances. That is why we Social Democrats have always taken responsibility for state finances when we have been in government and have not done as moderates have done all three times they have been in government, leaving major deficits in public finances. That, of course, is how we do it this time. Niklas Wykman says I don't want to talk about the subject. The subject is public finances. Here I said earlier and say again: The government has paid off 10 percentage points of the public debt. We have reduced the public debt to the lowest public debt since 1977. We have done so by conducting the strictest fiscal policy since the budgetary adjustment. Of course, we Social Democrats will continue to be responsible for public finances when we have the opportunity to be responsible for them. That is what we are doing in this budget, and so we intend to do in the future in the same way as all my Socialist finance ministers have done. If you care about welfare, you take responsibility for public finances.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-215	Mr President, I would like to I am concerned that the Minister for Finance does not really know what she is talking about. That is, of course, a strong thing to say. The Minister of Finance mentions here that this is the structural savings to be assessed. It is precisely because structural savings in the economic boom are negative that the Minister for Finance is being criticised by these authorities. According to these authorities, the Minister of Finance has negative structural savings in a boom. The Minister of Finance says: It is important to have positive structural savings in the boom. However, the criticism of the entire expert authorities is based on the fact that, despite the boom, structural savings are decreasing. It is absolutely impossible to put together the logic of the Finance Minister in this. The Minister of Finance goes on to say that the Alliance Government had no surpluses at any time. The Alliance government, when we entered the 2008 crisis, had more than 3% of GDP in surplus. In this strong boom, the Minister of Finance has about 1%, that is, one third of the surplus that the Alliance Government had when we entered the 2008 crisis. That is not the case either, Mr President. The Minister of Finance said earlier that we in the alliance government were rejected by the Council of Finance Policy. That's not true either. What is correct, Mr President, is that the Financial Control Agency, the Financial Policy Council, the National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs say that this government does not live up to the fiscal framework. Nor is it true, as the Minister for Finance claims, that the economic cycle would have been very strong after 2012. Her own department estimated that we had negative output gap of almost 2 percent in 2014. It is not a strong economic situation. It is a weak economic situation. It is an assessment made by the Ministry of Finance itself and which the Minister of Finance can hardly fail. It is very confusing to listen here to the Minister for Finance. It is very worrying about the shelters that the economy needs.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-220	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has a high tone but a little on his feet. We have a completely different economic situation compared to when Niklas Wykman was at the Ministry of Finance. It is because we have been pursuing an extremely tight fiscal policy all the way since we took office. We changed the policy of an ever-increasing budget deficit that was being pursued. There is no economist who believes that the deficit should be increased when the economic cycle rises, Niklas Wykman. I'm not saying we had a boom in 2013, but the business cycle was significantly stronger than in 2008, 2009. Then you should not continue to borrow for very inefficient tax cuts. Another problem with moderate policy was the attempt to boost growth and employment through major overall tax cuts. The Bankruptcy Institute has concluded that it is not an effective way of conducting fiscal policy. It is an ideological way of reducing the common sector and the possibilities of funding schools, health care, care for the elderly, the police and other things, if that is what the ambitions are. But it is not an effective way of pursuing economic policy. Perhaps it was mainly an ideological policy conducted by the Ministry of Finance at Niklas Wykman's time rather than a policy to improve the economy. What we did when we stepped into government was to change the policy, to end the unfunded tax cuts and to ensure that we properly financed the reforms. It is a work that has produced results. This means that, despite the great refugee crisis we have had, we have managed to have surpluses in public finances every year throughout our term of office. It is estimated that surpluses will continue to grow in the coming years as the economy develops. But sooner or later, the recession comes. Then it is important to have a lot in the barns. That is why we have paid off heavily on the public debt.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-225	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Andersson has asked me how I view the development of GDP per capita and what measures the government is taking in this regard. First of all, I would like to make it clear that GDP per capita is one of several indicators of the development of the economy and people's quality of life. For example, health, disposable income and education levels are welfare indicators followed by the government. Having said that, I can see that GDP growth has been high in Sweden in recent years, and resource utilisation is higher than normal. In the last two years, Swedish growth has been at the top five in the EU. For bnp per capita, in 2014 – 2016, bnp per capita increased by 6 per cent in two years. During the previous government with the Moderates at the Ministry of Finance, 2006– 2014, GDP per capita increased by only 3 per cent – in eight years. So even the rate of increase has picked up speed properly. The government's forecast returns to a more balanced situation in the coming years. This means that bnp per capita increases at a more normal rate in the future. A falling proportion of working-age population also contributes to more normal growth in GDP per capita. Such a demographic trend has been going on for several years and is expected to continue in the future. Work and productivity are central to the development of bnp per capita. Everyone who can work should work and contribute to the prosperity of the country. We have seen since this government took office that unemployment has fallen and that more and more people are in employment. Sweden has the highest employment rate in the EU, and the government forecast is that it will continue to increase. Since access in 2014, the government has invested heavily to increase employment and productivity. Among other things, the government is investing in a broad knowledge lift, an initiative that has been fully expanded to include over 90 000 training places. The knowledge boost gives people the chance to educate themselves to strengthen their opportunities in the labour market, which helps to overcome labour shortages and secures the future supply of skills and Sweden's position as a competitive knowledge nation. The government also implements investments in climate, infrastructure and housing, as well as active business and innovation policies. In addition, spending on welfare also contributes to a high level of employment and growth. Overall, government reforms are estimated to contribute to a sustained increase in employment, productivity and GDP per capita.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-233	Mr President, I would like to A wise man has said that you should seek the best arguments of the opponent, and not the worst. In this context, it is gratifying that we have a relatively similar view of what benefits productivity and economic growth. There is an insight into the answer from Magdalena Andersson that education and investment are important, and we are in complete agreement there. Unfortunately, the government does not translate the words into action. In this connection, I would like to mention what some outsiders are saying, because I assume that the Minister for Finance will not take my word for it. I can mention, for example, John Hassler, who says that the government is beautiful in the Swedish economy and provides false security. The necessary reforms that Sweden would need are not being implemented," he says. The Institute of Economics is on the same line, saying that it is a significant slowdown, where the growth rate is 1.4 per cent in GDP per capita and drops to 0.5 per cent by 2020. The Swedish Financial Control Agency is also less optimistic about both the short-term economic situation and the longer-term potential of the economy. This, in turn, leads to both the National Institute of Economic Affairs and the Swedish Financial Control Agency's forecasts showing that investments will decrease over the next five years. They even say that both potential bnp and potential employment have been reduced as a result of the reforms proposed in the budget bill. Having said that, I would like to discuss with the Minister of Finance the way we would have to discuss, where we seek each other's best arguments. In order to meet the challenges and to secure the prosperity we have in our country, it is important that we really identify and discuss the reforms we would need to make. The most obvious are the school, which has been a major problem for us for a long time. It is important that everything that makes it impossible for us to prepare students for their continued life and learning. That is what creates growth in the longer term. It is also about the labour market, where we have a great deal of duality and a great need for greater flexibility. It is important both to be able to move between jobs and from a geographical perspective. It leads us into the housing market, which leaves more to be desired. We need a better business environment to ensure that jobs grow. To achieve this, we also need to discuss the tax system, which creates the incentives to bring the challenges and imbalances to order. Having said that, I would like to put a question to the Minister for Finance: is she satisfied with what the Institute of Economic Affairs, the Board of Economic Control and also the IMF and the OECD say and their assessment and rejection of the government's measures to increase productivity in the longer term?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-239	Mr President, I would like to Increasing productivity is central to having a good GDP growth per capita. But it is also a question of everyone who can work also contributing to work and to many hours worked in the economy. In order to increase productivity, the government is investing heavily in innovation in the business sector. Automation in industry is an important issue. We invest in research, and make many investments in it in the research proposal that we have presented. It is also, not least, about education. It is about people being able to meet the needs of employers. The problem we have in Sweden today is that, while we have many unemployed, we have 100,000 vacancies, where employers find it difficult to find the right skills. There is a shortage in a number of professions where we need to educate people. An important way to educate people to lack jobs is through the Employment Service and the labour market training and measures for which the Public Employment Service is responsible, such as the procurement of lack of vocational training. Here, the Moderates want to cut over 8 billion on labour market policy in their budget exercise. Instead, you want us here in Parliament to legislate on lower salaries. How is productivity being boosted when people are not getting the training that employers are asking for, but instead receive lower wages?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-242	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say that it is a good thing that the Swedish economy is doing well. It is good that we have the development we have had in the short term. This, in turn, creates opportunities and a window to make the necessary reforms. But the government seems to have no insight at all into what needs to be done, what imbalances exist and what challenges we have. Above all, the government is not taking the right steps to address the needs that exist. Conversion opportunities and training are incredibly important for people to be able to adapt to existing needs and with skills development. The most important thing, I believe, is to support incentives for people to make career moves and adapt to a labour market. We will encourage the drive to want to take a step further, to change jobs and to have greater mobility. That is what creates the opportunity for people to get into work. I am not at all of the opinion that you should create more simple jobs, but rather that you should make more simple jobs available. This requires taking the incentive structures that exist seriously. Training should pay off, starting a business should pay off and it should pay off to adapt so that you can change your career, take a new job or take a step further in the employment you already have. This understanding is not at all on the part of the Minister for Finance. There is no will whatsoever to give people this opportunity to adapt themselves and to get the driving forces themselves. For her, it is only a matter of steering from above and of incentives in the form of labour market measures where someone else should know better. Furthermore, it is incredibly important that it is possible to move to work. The housing market and the imbalances there are the challenges for people to move to work. There's a lot to think about there, I'd say. It is not easy either as a new citizen in Sweden or, by all means, as a rural resident to move to the city and to a job today. Nor is it easy for young people who come from the countryside to move to the city to get an education. I think we have a lot to think about in terms of why we do not get the growth that we expect with the stimulants that exist. Why aren't the jobs growing? Why don't we start more companies? Why do companies not invest? Why are there not the innovations and entrepreneurship that we could expect with the incentives that exist? Is there a need to review the tax system? Does the Minister of Finance have any idea whether she thinks there would be any need for a better incentive structure for more driving forces? If so, I would like to hear her views on this.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-248	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Andersson says that I want to control everything from above and that I want people themselves not to have the opportunity to develop. I would like to remind you that we are carrying out a very large and permanent knowledge boost in which we are expanding vocational adult, adult, qualified vocational training, folk high schools and higher education with over 90 000 educational opportunities. This means that 90 000 educational opportunities are available, thanks to this government, so that people can grow, develop and move forward in their career and working life. It is therefore a very comprehensive effort. I remain concerned that the mod erats want to cut more than 8 billion in labour market policy. Let me take an example. Ghalia was a housewife in Syria, but now in Sweden, in Lindesberg, she is training as an excavator who is a deficiency profession. It is a procured education through Arbetsförmedlingen that she attends, and it is precisely the type of education that risks being stopped with the Moderates saving of over 8 billion on labour market policy. If you are now interested in increased growth and productivity, why do you want to cut this type of effort that allows people to move from unemployment to taking the jobs that are now emerging in this economic situation?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-251	Mr President, I would like to 90 000 people have the opportunity to learn. That's great; I don't mind. But I'm not sure that solves all the problems, and I'm not sure that's the best measure. We have about 5 million people who could work another hour or take another step in their career. If you put 5 million against 90 000, I think it will be clear that the 90 000 will not be able to cope with the deteriorating opportunities you see both in the long and medium term in terms of productivity development and growth and dynamics in the Swedish economy. If the Minister of Finance does not want to take my word for it, it would be good if she referred to what the Institute of Economic Affairs, the Board of Economic Control, the OECD, the IMF and prominent professors and her former Chairman of the Council of Finance Policy say. I find it sad and sad that these imbalances, which involve exclusion, unemployment and dependency on benefits, persist despite the fact that Sweden is in a boom. The need for reforms is incredibly great, but the government is actually missing the opportunity to implement them despite the economic situation we have. We have a unique opportunity to use the economic situation that we have now and to implement the necessary reforms that we so badly need for Sweden to function in the future so that we can actually defend and retain the prosperity that we have. We cannot miss the chance to implement structural reforms when we have the economic situation we have.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-254	Mr President, I would like to No, we should not miss out on the chance to implement the structural reforms that Sweden so badly needs. That is precisely why the government is implementing these very reforms in this budget. We are implementing important structural reforms to secure and strengthen the Swedish model. What is important in the Swedish model? It's that we have a good school for all children, and that's why we put a lot of resources into the school. It is that we have good health care so that people do not have to be at home sick for long because they do not receive care, and therefore we are making a historically great investment in health care. We must also ensure that our municipalities and county councils have the resources to ensure good childcare and safe care for the elderly so that women also have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. That is exactly what we are doing in this budget. In addition, we make extensive investment in infrastructure to make it easier for the business community, and we also make an historic investment in housing to make it easier for people to move to where jobs and education are. I note that the Moderates unfortunately want to remove the entire housing effort that now enables more people to get the wonderful feeling of putting the key in the door to their first apartment. We are also investing heavily in training people so that they can take the jobs that exist. That is how a responsible economic policy is pursued in this economic situation. In addition to these efforts, the government is also making sure to equip us for worse times by paying off on the public debt. This is how you take responsibility for Sweden.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-258	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström has asked me whether I intend to take steps to develop customs operations at central border points like the customs station in Hån instead of being phased out. I have already taken steps to develop customs operations at the borders. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government has proposed a permanent increase of SEK 185 million to the Swedish Customs Agency. This is a strong investment which over the next four years represents just over 10 per cent compared to the current level of funding. The resources shall be used to increase customs controls at the border. It is the single largest investment in modern times to strengthen Customs' operations.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for that answer. I would like to begin by highlighting the importance of a functioning customs operation and the fact that around the borders of Sweden we have customs offices that can function as a service institution and control at our borders. Customs has a fundamental function in how our society operates and interacts with other countries and also in how markets can develop. In addition to guarding borders and preventing smuggling and other criminal activities, customs operations are crucial for entrepreneurship in Sweden and make it possible to operate in a more challenging global market. Competitive business and cross-border business requires a functioning customs activity in the absolute local environment. The interaction between Sweden and Norway continues to increase, and we have seen over the years how Swedish and Norwegian companies have established themselves on each side of the border and how it creates jobs and development and gives confidence in the future to many areas that have previously been subject to restructuring and reductions. It is very worrying then to deliberately contribute to making it more difficult for traders to have day-to-day transport across the border. This is what happens with the announcement of a reduction in customs operations in Hån along the E18, which is one of Sweden's most important traffic routes between Sweden and Norway, the main road between Oslo and Stockholm. In October, the Finnish Customs decided to shut down customs operations in Hån at night from 1 April next year. It provides both cost increases and longer distances to manage for companies. It can also have an environmental impact and, not least, it provides less time for the core business. As production and operations are developing today, Norwegian companies can operate across the border, in Sweden, and there are such in Töcksfors in Årjäng municipality. Companies produce daily and package in the evening to transport their products over the border to Norway. This is going to hit those companies hard. The logistics flow is limited and getting worse. It will be much less possible to have daily flow management between units and between revenues and expenses, and the ability to do business with other companies will also be limited. If production and storage in Sweden are to be possible in the future, customs operations must also be open at night both in this customs station and in other places in Sweden where it is about developing operations in both directions. I do not know if the Minister of Finance has been present for a while in this part of Sweden and has reasoned with local politicians and local entrepreneurs and also Norwegian actors on the ground in Sweden who are contributing to the definition of Norway and western Värmland as a common labour market region today. Årjäng belongs functionally to Oslo's labour market region for many years. There is a constant flow of people, goods and services across the border. We feel very involved in Norwegian development. The faith of the future is growing. Norway now continues to invest in E18. Another stage has been completed up to the Swedish border. It will be inaugurated in a couple of weeks. Hopefully it will also complete the remaining route up to Tusenfryd at the E6. Once this effort has been made, traffic is likely to increase further. Thank you for your answer so far. I see that there is a considerable increase in ambition. The 10% increase in appropriations should also mean that priority can be given and that it is open 24 hours a day, also at the customs station in Töcksfors, Hån. I'll ask the question again. Will the Minister of Finance contribute to this?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-270	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the opportunity to comment on an important issue. For a long time, I, Årjäng Municipality and the Chamber of Commerce Värmland have been trying to educate us about how the Finnish Customs thinks about the future. We have also struggled to have the opportunity to describe to them how the closure of customs at night affects not only Årjäng but the whole of Värmland and Sweden. Moreover, as a local politician in Årjäng, I have spent my entire political life, twenty years, fighting with other parties for a new customs station. That is something we have not yet seen. But that is another issue that we might be able to come back to. It is positive that more parties are going into the matter. I would therefore like to thank Daniel Bäckström for putting the interpellation on this important issue. It gives me the opportunity to continue an important discussion. In October, I wrote a question to the Minister for Finance on this particular matter. My question was how the Minister intends to work to ensure that the international flow of goods is neither hindered nor distorted. I was then given the answer that the Minister is aware that the decision to close the customs station at night will mean that there are no solutions to handle a few shipments per night, but that the Customs Office will also monitor the development of traffic flow and the need for accessibility for industry. As a social democrat, I am of course delighted that the Social Democratic-led government has been clear since day one that it wants a Sweden that is connected, where service will work throughout the country. It also chooses, as the Minister for Finance has just said, to invest historically a great deal of money in the forthcoming budget, whose framework was made as late as the other day, precisely on customs activities. With my speech, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight some important things that should have affected customs decisions, but which – as we can see – have not yet done so. Firstly, Norway is competing with Germany to be Sweden's most important trading partner. They usually take turns being number one and number two. Secondly, precisely the customs status we are now discussing is the second largest road passage for goods into Norway. Thirdly, according to the information we have received, the customs station in Svinesund will be affected by road construction around the station. It will lead to a lot of queues. Then it will affect nearby stations, just in Hån and Eda. Transport will probably choose other roads instead of standing in line. It feels a little bit like one hand doesn't know what the other does. Fourthly, I do not understand why a change should take place when the consequences are very likely to be that heavy transport will choose to take other roads than the E18. You will go in and spin on smaller and worse roads than what is our lifeblood between two capitals, also in the dark days of the day. There is a very high risk of an increase in the number of accidents. I realise that the last point is more about infrastructure than about customs activities. But we have to look at the bigger picture.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-284	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to Mr Bäckström's interpellation. The Minister of Finance points out that the Swedish Customs Agency is now being given more financial resources. That's good. We Moderates, too, add more money to customs in our draft budget, even more than the government does. But the economic strengthening would probably have been needed a long time ago, not least in the light of the current problems with the influx of both drugs and weapons into Sweden. The role of the Customs Agency as a law enforcement authority is becoming increasingly important, as the Committee on Justice has also stated. In this context, I would like to remind you that the customs posts in western Värmland, Charlottenberg and especially in Hån, in cooperation with Norwegian customs and Norwegian and Swedish police, play an important role in combating the many multi-criminal theft leagues in western Värmland. Mr President, I would like to As Mr Bäckström points out, the Swedish Customs Agency also has a very important task to enable entrepreneurship, trade and cross-border flows. Furthermore, customs posts in western Värmland, along with some other customs posts along the border with Norway, have a special responsibility because it is the EU's external border. We therefore also have a responsibility to the European Union here. As I understand it, the Commission has also had comments on the opening hours at the customs station in Hån. The Customs Department is under the Ministry of Finance, and I have respect and understanding that the Minister of Finance cannot decide where individual customs posts should be located, let alone when they should be open. But the problem that has arisen as a result of the closure of customs in Hån nighttime is, in principle, deeply unfortunate. This severely hampers the conditions for trade with Norway, which has just been mentioned as Sweden's main trading partner, particularly in the export of products. Almost 5 million vehicles cross the Norwegian-Värmland border each year. The E18, as previously stated, is the actual artery of the body into the expansive Oslo area. For me, it is quite incomprehensible that a decision should be taken which makes it impossible to travel at night for a large part of lorry traffic. The haulage industry has pointed out that closure will have a major impact on small and medium-sized haulage companies, as they do not have exceptions to the clearance requirements. The Finnish Customs has also stated that digitalisation should be promoted and electronic clearance introduced. I think everyone is willing to support digitalisation. The problem is that the electronic clearance from Customs will not be in place until 2023. In the best of worlds I would like to see no trucks stop at customs in Hån or for that matter any other customs station, but until we have electronic clearance, I think that d et is deeply unfortunate that customs is closed in Hån nighttime. Like Daniel Bäckström and Gunilla Svantorp, this can have two important consequences. Firstly, it has environmental impact when trucks are forced to drive detours for many miles every day in order to get to other stations where one can clear at night. Secondly, Norwegian Tolletaten has also expressed concern that the customs duty in Hån will be closed at night because they believe that there is a risk that trucks will ignore the clearance themselves and enter Norway illegally. I would really like to appeal to the Minister for Finance to look at this issue.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-294	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that there is strong economic development in this part of the country. We see that business and local government are growing and flourishing throughout the country. It is extremely gratifying that this is also happening in western Värmland. I think we can agree on that. I also believe that we can agree on which issues should be decided by the government and the parliament and which issues should be decided by individual authorities. And to decide how to use your funds in the most effective way, including when it comes to opening hours, the Finnish Customs is best suited to do. The Government and the Riksdag will try to ensure that the Swedish Customs Authority has the resources to fulfil its important mission. When I have received the question and the interpellation, I have obtained some information from the Finnish Customs. What I understand is their assessment that with the opportunities available, with digital solutions and permits, it is about a handful of transport every night where it will not be possible to solve it in that way. Instead, the handful of shipments have the opportunity to take an hour's detour and cross another customs station. Since these five transports that arrive during the night are not able to access any of these solutions, the Finnish Customs saves 13 hours of work each day. The Finnish Customs has made the assessment that the 13 hours of work can instead be spent on improving the service during the hours of the day when the customs station is open. The combined service to the business community can then be improved. The Finnish Customs will of course follow up and see how transport develops in order to provide the best possible service to the business community.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-298	Madam President, I would like The government announced in its response, and Magdalena Andersson makes it clear that the government's draft budget makes a major effort on customs operations in Sweden. It's one of the biggest in a long time. At the same time, reporting on the impact of the change on hours per day means that you can quickly start counting on what 10 per cent increase in funding can do for an operation in Hån in view of the planned rescheduling. Why cannot this money continue to fund a 24-hour opening? That should be a matter of course. A high level of ambition in the long-term work is positive, but in practice there will still be a redistribution in terms of where the development of customs activities will take place in the future, since the focus is on other countries, which, of course, also have a lot to do. There are many challenges in Sweden on this issue. The signal from the government side and the authority decisions that have been taken means that Hån is not a priority area. It is one of the most important strings in the development of relations between Sweden and Norway. At the same time, Norway has invested and continues to invest. Oslo and the surrounding area are growing so creaks. Therefore, there should be a common view from Sweden's and Norway's perspectives on what these opportunities should look like. It takes a few years before the electronic solution is in place. If it is four, five or six years, we will see, but until then it is extremely important that the companies that plan to continue to develop or those who are thinking about establishing themselves on the Swedish side can also feel confident that this possibility exists around the clock. It's important. Even if there is little transport, it is also a question of long-distance transport. At present, it is transport from Norway along the E18 further towards the Baltics and other areas. They are, in themselves, important for the total flow of logistics. We have every reason to consider in general what the net impact of this in practice is for the long-term development of society. Although the agency can redistribute working hours in 24 hours and see short-term economic effects, there are major socio-economic consequences that I believe the Minister of Finance is also aware of. I would hope that we can have a common vision. I know how urgent the issue is for the local leadership in Årjäng municipality. Much work has been done to actively defend and facilitate reasonable conditions for developing entrepreneurship in Västvärmland, together with the district and neighbouring municipalities on the Norwegian side. The interaction with the large shopping centres right at Hån's customs station, which takes a significant part of the Swedish trade flow across the border, is here to stay. There are only opportunities, and then the right conditions should exist. Nevertheless, the government has the opportunity to discuss in principle what the policy should look like for opening hours in customs operations.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-306	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Significant signals are given if one allows an important customs station to close at night, that is, not to go that way. The Chamber of Commerce sent out a questionnaire to its member organisations. 48 out of 55 who answered said they will be affected. Many of them can change their routes and do differently, but there are still some who are affected every night – as the Minister of Finance said. Given that the government invests so much in Customs and control functions, it is still strange signals that in this situation – when a new customs station is to be built, with road works in Svinesund that make cars have to take other roads in order not to get in queues, and waiting for the digital solution – choose to make it more difficult for those who try to run companies. At the same time, I understand that this is not really the role of the Minister for Finance, but it is still the Minister for Finance that we need to talk to. In my question in October, I referred to the EU regulation on the opening hours of customs posts. It should not make business more difficult. How does the Minister of Finance view how this regulation hampers the flow of goods into and outflow from Sweden?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-310	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the interpellation debate. I have also heard the figure about the extent of the number of trucks that would move in the line of five trucks per day. But I can also add that I have heard other figures that are significantly higher in the extent of truck traffic and the occupancy of the customs station at Hån nighttime. I am fully aware that the focus of Customs is on the import rather than the export of goods. The customs station in Hån is a lot about exits. Nevertheless, I hope that the budgetary reinforcements now being made at the Customs Office can also be used to ensure that the customs station in Hån is kept open at night. It is an important regional development issue and is also of national importance. Like Daniel Bäckström and Gunilla Svantorp, the E18 is the actual artery into the Oslo area, and it is extremely important for our trade. We know that there will be negative environmental impacts when lorries are forced to take alternative routes. We know that it will hit small and medium-sized enterprises hard, especially those which do not have exceptions to clearance. Furthermore, it will make cooperation between Swedish and Norwegian customs more difficult.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-314	Madam President, I would like Will trade between Sweden and Norway be made more difficult? Here Customs has a mission to make it easier for goods to enter and exit the borders of the country. Without interfering with the opinion of the Swedish Customs, I would assume that the Swedish Customs Administration makes the assessment that this work would facilitate and improve service to the business community as there may be more per sonal in place during the hours of the day when there is a lot of goods passing through.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-315	Madam President, I would like I note once again that the Minister for Finance claims that considerable efforts have been made to develop customs operations. I personally cannot see how a closed customs station at night means in practice a developed customs operation, in this case for the customs station in Hån. It is rather the case that this is the beginning of negative signals to those who depend on customs operations at the border along the E18 and, in the long term, perhaps also a stealth centralization based on the government's ambitions when it comes to how to work towards this part of the country. Here there is every reason to come back and discuss the conditions in the long term. I hope that the budgetary reinforcement announced by the government will lead to a re-assessment by the Finnish Customs in the run-up to the spring term and can see whether this can be put forward in a different way in the coming years and also in the long term. We need a functioning customs service, we need to develop it and we need to have available systems that make it easy to move across the border, whether you travel by long-distance traffic or move regionally between two units in each municipality on each side of the border. This issue is discussed and affects many people and many companies in both Sweden and Norway. I hope that we can see signals about the future and also signals on this issue that calms and provides the opportunity to continue investing in these areas and creating jobs, which also gives tax revenues for Sweden's continued welfare. Thank you for this debate.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-320	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate. I appreciate the commitment that I notice from several MPs for there to be good opportunities for growth and jobs across the country. It is an ambition fully shared by the government. The government has also taken important steps to try to strengthen growth and job opportunities across the country, including the extensive investments we make in infrastructure and in municipalities and county councils across the country but also with extended educational opportunities. It is, of course, a good thing that we share that ambition. As regards customs and specifically the customs station in Hån, it is important to emphasise that it is the Customs Authority that is best placed to assess exactly what opening hours apply to a single customs station and that it is not the parliament or government that decides on this matter. However, this does not prevent us from debating the possibilities for business around the country, including the possibility of transporting goods into and out of the country. That is, of course, important. It is also important to underline the fact that the government has made a major effort on customs to strengthen not only service but also control at our borders.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-323	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the momentum so that more people choose to work after the age of 65. As I answered Lotta Finstorp on a similar question about a month ago and have answered Helena Bouveng on similar questions on several previous occasions, it is important to create good conditions for older people to work longer. In order to get more older people to work, the working environment needs to be improved and work-related ill-health prevented. In order to strengthen the protection of workers and contribute to good conditions for a sustainable working life, the government has greatly strengthened resources in the field of health and safety at work policy. The health and safety strategy developed by the Government means a significantly increased level of ambition in the work environment. The Government has also commissioned the report on security and development of employment in terms of working hours and leave to analyse how the work environment can be improved to enable full-time work in a full-time working life. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government also proposes that an Agency for Safety and Health at Work be set up to better exploit the knowledge from research in the practical work environment. Increased resources are needed to improve the working environment and working conditions in the local government sector. The Government's investment in welfare means significant resources that enable municipalities and county councils to strengthen health care, school and care. Such investments in welfare are also of great importance for the working environment – not least in many women-dominated industries, which are characterised by greater problems with ill health than other sectors. The economic drivers for continuing to work after 65 years are strong. Working older people are fiscally advantageous, both on the income tax side and on the employers' side. The design of the pension system also means that those who work longer and retire later receive a higher annual pension.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-328	Madam President, I would like The Swedish economy is booming. I'm glad to hear that. At the same time, we face major challenges. Meeting the challenges in the best way requires adopting them when the times are good, for it will come times that are not quite as favorable. Meeting the challenges requires policies where jobs and entrepreneurship pay off and people are brought into the labour market. Increasing the drive to move from grants to work is a key issue. But, Madam President, it is not just about getting people into the labour market. It is also about getting more people to want to work even after the age of 65. Throughout the Western world, we are living longer, which means that more and more people of working age will have to support more and more if the accepted retirement age remains 65. I believe that the Minister for Finance and I agree that this is not sustainable if we want to maintain the welfare that we have today. It simply requires more people to work higher up in their ages. When our former Prime Minister stated precisely this, the reactions did not wait. Among other spokespersons of the Social Democrats on pension issues Tomas Eneroth, now Minister of the Red-Green Government, quickly went out in the media and accused Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt of pointing a finger. Today, a few years later, I can only say that Annika Strandhäll has come to the same conclusion and that any increase in the retirement age will be possible during this term of office. Madam President, I would like We share the government's view of reducing taxes on pensioners. In the Alliance, we reduced taxes on pensioners five times. So do we now. On the other hand, the Red-Green Government does not share our view of reducing tax even further for those who choose to work higher up in their ages. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: does the Minister of Finance not think that it is important for more people to choose to work higher up the age bracket, that lower taxes lead to more people choosing to remain in the labour market and that this is absolutely crucial if we want to maintain the welfare we want so badly? What does the Minister of Finance choose – carrots or whips?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-335	Madam President, I would like When you ask the elderly themselves why they choose to retire, they often answer that they have reached the age of 65. But the reason they usually state is their own health – that they are no longer able to work. Addressing the problems that people themselves say are the problems that make them no longer work is therefore about working with the work environment. Here the government is clearly different from what it was like when the Moderates ruled the Government Office. We have made extensive investments in the work environment. We have a clear strategy to strengthen the working environment. We are now also setting up an authority to be able to work with the work environment. In order for us to be able to work longer, we need more active work environment work than we had before. Of course, as we grow older, we also need to work longer. But then it's about enabling people to do it. Should it be fiscally beneficial to work when you're older? It is already today. It is fiscally beneficial both on the income side and on the employer side. In addition, there are clear driving forces in the pension system to work longer. It is my opinion that we have clear economic drivers today and that they stimulate more people to work longer. It is a good thing that the Moderates are putting up for the government's reduction in taxes on pensioners. We Social Democrats think it is unjust that pensioners pay higher taxes than employees on the same income. However, I note that at the same time the Moderates are proposing to increase that gap by introducing a sixth job tax deduction. Thus, with moderate policies, pensioners would continue to pay higher taxes than wage earners.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-340	Madam President, I would like I do not think that the pensioners who receive reduced taxes have a problem with the pensioners who choose it working higher up to working age. On the contrary, I think it is recognised that it is good for your own pension. That every other woman experiences her 80th birthday is extremely pleasing. The last time I and the Minister of Finance debated this issue, we actually paid tribute to our mothers. We also see that many people have the energy to stay in work after 65. This has not least helped women. Between 2006 and 2015, employment increased by as much as 6.6 per cent in the 65-74 group. Eurostat statistics show that Sweden had the fastest growing employment rate in this particular age group. The positive development is largely explained by the alliance government's tax relief for the elderly. The increased job tax credit for those aged 65 or over simply made it more profitable for older people to remain for a few more years, full-time or part-time. We Moderates want to continue with the successful line of strengthening the increased employment tax deductions for the elderly further, and we want them to apply as early as the age of 64. Evaluations of the current job tax credit for older people show significant job effects of the reform, and strengthening should deliver even better results in terms of getting more hours worked even after the 65th anniversary. Madam President, I would like In the coming years we will have large retirements, both in the welfare and in the private sector. At the same time, there is a great demand for skilled, experienced employees. In a previous interpellation debate on the same subject, which the Minister of Finance had with my colleague Lotta Finstorp, the Minister of Finance stated that it was important to get young people into the labour market. Of course it is, but that is perhaps basically why I put t this interpellation. The young people will not be able to replace the experienced doctors, nurses and teachers who often, in large parts of the country, solve the training and skills shortages that actually exist. I have many testimonies about this, not least in my municipality of Vetlanda. Young people who are currently outside the labour market will not compete for the same job. Is it not important, then, to increase incentives for more educated, experienced and competent people to choose to remain in the labour market to make it easier for the municipalities in the country to ensure that the right skills are available at school, in the care of the elderly and in our hospitals? Older people's skills should be taken care of and not thrown away. If more people choose to remain in the labour market after 65, this will not prevent young people from entering the labour market with current skills shortages.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-349	Madam President, I would like No, certainly not! I see absolutely no contradiction between young people entering the labour market and older people having good opportunities to remain. Both issues are important to work with. Of course, it is important that more older people can continue to work longer, and it is also important that more young people have the opportunity not least to establish themselves permanently in the labour market earlier than they do today because it is often a prerequisite for getting a home, for example. But it is important that more elderly people have the opportunity to work longer, and that is why the government also addresses what older people themselves say is the reason why they no longer work, namely that their own health makes them unable to cope. Given that this is what people are saying is the big problem, it is also what the government is working to address through our extensive work environment initiatives. What the government is doing is trying to deal with what is actually the problem, and it seems to be the working environment.
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-352	Madam President, I would like It was good to hear that the Finance Minister sees no contradiction between the fact that older people are still working and young people entering the labour market. I believe that the Minister for Finance and I agree that it is important that more people choose to work even after 65. I agree with the Minister for Finance that it is not just financial incentives that govern. We Moderates believe, as you do, in a good working environment. We are also clear that there must be opportunities to switch to a new working life and a new career even later in life in order to want, be able to cope and remain in the labour market. But, Minister of Finance, we cannot ignore the fact that taxes actually control behavior. What we want more from taxes we lower, and what we want less from taxes we tax higher. I want more people to stay in the labour market after 65. It is good for the individual, for Sweden and for the welfare. And, Minister of Finance, they don't take jobs from young people without experience and education. So why does the Minister of Finance say no to increased incentives for older people to stay longer in the labour market? Why not use carrot instead of whip? Why not appreciate instead of taxing?
i-cde31dacd5bacc28-356	Madam President, I would like As usual when talking to a Moderate, the same solution recurs. Regardless of which issue we are discussing, there is a solution: reduced taxes. But reduced taxes are not the answer to everything. If the problem is poor working environment, reduced taxes are not the answer. On the contrary, the tax revenues we receive can enable more people to work longer. Instead, when we no longer implement Moderate tax-sink policies, we have resources for welfare so that more people can still work until 65. When we can increase resources for preschool, school, health care and care for the elderly, we enable more people to work. It can improve the working environment for those, often women, who work in these sectors, but it also enables women to work and work full time. When you know that there is high quality in childcare, in fritis, in care for the elderly and in home care, more women can work full-time. Increased quality in care for the elderly and home care is also something that makes it possible for older women to keep working and work full time. When the problem is the working environment, reduced taxes are not the answer. Sometimes there are other answers than reduced taxes, Helena Bouveng.
