i-1d8c45d41f37d342-14	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Members of Parliament and especially Mr Christian for their patience. Unfortunately, it was for very sad, personal family reasons that we had to postpone this debate. I am the first to regret it and would like to thank you for waiting and being patient. Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me what the position of the Swedish Government was at the vote in which Saudi Arabia was elected to the UN Commission on Women and how I believe that the decision can strengthen the UN's work on gender equality. Sofia Fölster has asked me how Sweden voted in the UN when Saudi Arabia was elected to the UN Commission on Women, and what my position and that of the government is that one of the world's most unequal countries has been given a place in the UN Commission on Women. The questions are closely linked, and I therefore choose to answer them in a context. The UN and its bodies belong to the Member States, regardless of how these countries are governed or take human rights into account. The participation of all UN Member States in the work is an important prerequisite for the UN to be a legitimate meeting place for the world's states. In the work of the Women's Commission, all UN Member States can participate, whether they are members of the Commission or not. At the Commission's annual meeting, so-called agreed conclusions are adopted by consensus. The conclusions are intended to be the norm for the international work on gender equality. Elections to ECOSOCs, i.e. to the sub-agencies of the Economic and Social Committee, including the Women's Commission, are based on an interregional breakdown agreed to insure all regions of different Commissions. There are no specific criteria for membership of the Women's Commission or the other functional commissions. The Commission has 45 members. For example, in 2017 there are countries as diverse as Bahrain, China and Norway. Where there is agreement in the various regional groups with as many candidates as there are seats, it is customary for these proposals to be accepted and adopted in ECOSOC by acclamation. This is called clean slate. To challenge another regional group can result in other countries acting in the same way in elections where, for example, Sweden has an interest in being elected. This also follows a Swedish foreign policy practice on how votes are handled. Sweden does not comment on how we vote in the event of a secret ballot. This could damage Sweden's role in the current forum as well as Sweden's bilateral relations with the country or countries in question. The secret of the vote also means protection for countries, especially small ones, which could be put under pressure because of how they voted. The key to influence in the Women's Commission is not above all formal membership but the activeness of a country. Regrettably, there are several negotiating parties to combat gender equality and the enjoyment of human rights by women and girls. Good gender equality policy results can be achieved in UN negotiations involving the entire UN membership. Although several value-conservative delegations made common ground in the negotiations on Agenda 2030, Sweden, together with like-minded people, managed to get through strong gender equality policies, including on sexual and reproductive health and rights. The discussions in the UN require all countries to be heard. This also applies to the work on gender equality and to the full enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls. The solution is not to exclude those states that show a lack of respect for human rights, but to engage in dialogue with good arguments based on knowledge and analysis and to skilfully pursue Swedish priorities. The government takes a very serious view of the situation of women's and girls' rights in Saudi Arabia, as is also evident from the report on human rights in Saudi Arabia published on 26 April 2017. The Swedish government is, and will remain, a global force for gender equality. Feminist foreign policy is reflected in the Foreign Administration's Action Plan 2015 – 2018. Our actions contribute, among other things, to strengthening women's and girls' opportunities to be actors in the work towards the shrinking democratic space and in conflict prevention. We are also working against discriminatory legislation in the economic field. We fight all forms of violence against women and girls, and we work for sexual and reproductive rights for all. The government will continue to operate strongly within the framework of feminist foreign policy and will contribute to the concrete improvement of the situation of women and girls worldwide.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-25	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to the interpellation, Margot Wallström! It came a little late, but we got an explanation for that. In April this year Saudi Arabia was elected President of the UN Commission on Women. Given the situation in that country, it caused a lot of debate – just over four months ago. I guess we'll just have to do a little flashback. It was in April of this year that I wrote the interpellation that we are going to debate today. My colleague, who will speak after me, also wrote his interpellation at the time. As I said, it has been quite a long time ago. But the situation in the country in question has not changed. In many situations, such a delayed response would mean that the question to be debated would be out of date and overplayed. Unfortunately, this is not the case with Saudi Arabia. Today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I are going to debate two issues, which are unfortunately still highly topical. This interpellation, about Saudi Arabia and women's rights, is one of them. The repression of women in Saudi Arabia is still sad and very extensive. This also applies to women's rights. In Saudi Arabia, men have decided that women must not show either skin or hair. These must be covered. Women are not allowed to drive or open bank accounts, and they must have with them a male guardian when moving in the community. However, this year, for the first time, women will be able to vote in local elections. On the other hand, they will not be able to go to the polling stations without having a man with them, because women cannot move freely without a male guardian. Nor will women be able to drive there because they are not allowed to drive. In addition, women who take part in protests against the bans on imprisonment or harassment are at risk. The fact that that country is now not only part of the UN Women's Commission, but also leads the work on gender equality, in quite a number of ways, seems inappropriate and in many cases directly counterproductive. Mr President, I would like to The government has chosen to call its foreign policy feminist. We also heard that in the answer. It is unclear exactly what it means, in addition to saying and writing that you are running a feminist foreign policy. It should, however, impose extra high demands on the government's expectations. I have therefore chosen to ask Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström about the position of the Swedish Government in the vote in which Saudi Arabia was elected to the UN Commission on Women, and how the Minister for Foreign Affairs considers that the decision can strengthen the UN's work on gender equality. As we have just heard, I and my colleague Sofia Fölster have received a relatively long answer. But it was not quite clear in all parts. I understand that there are certain difficulties, for purely diplomatic reasons, in telling exactly how Sweden voted. At the same time, we know that seven countries abstained because Saudi Arabia is precisely Saudi Arabia on these issues. The fact that one of the countries in the world where women have the least freedom and where their rights are very small, or almost non-existent, is given the main responsibility for the UN's gender equality work is both inverse and uncomfortable. I think there are many of us who are surprised at the inadequacy of this. The organization UN Watch commented on this: To appoint Saudi Arabia to defend women's rights is like to appoint an arsonist as the city's fire master. It would be interesting to hear a little more from the Minister for Foreign Affairs about her reasoning and, above all, how the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes Saudi Arabia can contribute to more equality on the part of the United Nations.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-35	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer and for the explanation that the response to the interpellation has been delayed! I understand the answer and regret the situation. On the substance of the matter, I would like to start where my colleague left off, that is to say, the situation of women in Saudi Arabia is terrible. Apart from women not being allowed to drive, not being allowed to choose what clothes they want to wear, or if they want to wear makeup, they are underage, are not allowed to travel, are not allowed to get passports, are not allowed to take any financial decisions or receive medical care without the approval of their male guardians. Moreover, not all cases of rape are illegal in Saudi Arabia. And it's basically impossible for a woman to get redress if she's been raped. Rape in a relationship is not illegal, and we know that most rapes take place in close relationships. It is true that rape by an unknown man is illegal on paper. But if a woman reports this man, she is also convicted of talking to an unknown man. Then the woman is often to blame herself. So these women live under terrible circumstances. Saudi Arabia ranks as one of the countries where women are the most difficult and where women have the least freedom. And now Saudi Arabia is part of the UN delegation that is going to work on gender equality work. It doesn't just stick in your eyes. It's a signal going in the wrong direction. It signals that our view of gender equality is the opposite of what it should be. The Minister certainly explains in his reply that there may be reasons not to tell you how you have voted, although I would have liked to have had a clear answer to how Sweden has voted on the matter. At the same time, however, she argues for why it could have been acceptable at least to support the nomination of Saudi Arabia to the Commission. I think that is too uncritical. The Minister refers to a report on the situation in Saudi Arabia, among others, which Sweden has written. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: does the government believe that the Saudi Arabian regime reads that report? Do you think that's how we influence the world? I would argue that if we want to be feminists, if the government wants to call itself feminists, we must also influence where the chance is given and where it makes a difference. I think it is when you sit face to face with dictators and with regimes that you can say something that they listen to. And the UN is one of the few forums where we face even the worst regimes and have the opportunity to influence. Then it is extremely important that Sweden is tough in the UN, although it has consequences for how we are perceived in the form of courtesy. We shouldn't be polite feminists. We'll be rude. We are going to be tough, and we are going to be tough on the countries that treat women absolutely the worst. We have to be as tough as we can. It's real feminism, to influence even when it's tough, even when it's hard and even when it can have consequences. This is the only way we can stand up for women who are exposed every day.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-43	Mr President, I would like to It cannot be helped; I have to remind you of when I spoke about Saudi Arabia. Then none of the interpellants defended me. On the contrary, you shouted loudly that it was a bad diplomacy. Then I was attacked from every possible direction. I think you'll have to make up your mind. If the UN is not a forum for all countries to be included, then diplomatically we have achieved a huge failure. I have not heard any other example of how we will otherwise influence the world. First of all, we are mapping the reality of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. We are one of two countries throughout the world that makes such a complete review, with well-prepared reports on human rights. Of course it helps us. It helps us in every bilateral contact, every visit, and in everything we write and analyze in our contact with these countries. It's hugely important. You have also asked this question time and again. You have stood in this Chamber and accused me time and again that I have not made the reports. And now they shouldn't be worth anything. This isn't credible. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The fact that you refer to feminist foreign policy is, of course, wonderful, and I welcome that. It has become enormous and has also become the standard for the opposition. I think that's great. In addition, we report the results openly every year. We now have an action plan for the next few years. It shows very clearly both what we have achieved and what we intend to achieve in the future. I must, by the way, try time and again to explain how the UN works. It has to be said that the interest of the opposition has been rather weak. We need to explain what principles the UN is working on and how it actually works in practical terms. The truth is that we want countries to get involved in gender equality. This is another platform where we can express our views. How else are we gonna do that? After all, we cannot exclude countries from UN cooperation. Surely that cannot be the answer of the Moderates to how we are going to deal with this question? Moreover, this is not based on equality between countries. It does not test the gender equality policy of all countries. Then perhaps Finland and we would remain in the forum that has 45 countries. What are we going to do about Iran and China? Aren't they allowed to join us? Or what is the conclusion? The previous government itself made sure to vote in a country like Iran. So you may have to ask for a little more consistency in the way you reason. When it comes to not revealing anything, we have this as a principle and have also agreed not to do so. Because in the next situation, it is precisely those countries whose gender equality policies we criticise that will say: Sweden should not be there because they are too radical, too rowy and tell us that we should respect the principles of the rule of law, equality and equality. We cannot have such work in the UN circle. At this point we are. We continue to criticise, with our reports, those countries that we do not think live up to these principles. And we continue to work within the United Nations with the possibilities of diplomacy and politics, for that is still the way forward.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-54	Mr President, I would like to I understand that there are reasons for being somewhat diplomatic within the UN system. It is a system which certainly has many shortcomings and which would be valiant of decent radical reforms in order to become more effective. As I said, we have heard and know for a long time that this is one of the countries where the freedom of women is at its very least. As I said before, there is one organisation that has received good praise from at least the former UN Secretary-General, namely UN Watch. That organisation commented and criticised the decision very strongly when Saudi Arabia was appointed to defend women's rights. As I said before, it was like appointing an arsonist as a firefighter. Attributing the same rights to women and men should be the only reasonable thing. Now we know that it does not look like that throughout the world, but the shortcomings are widespread in many countries. Sweden is a forerunner, although we have things to do here in the future. But giving the main responsibility for this change and development work to one of the very worst in the field does not seem like a concept of success. The so-called feminist foreign policy that the government claims to pursue feels in situations like this more politically correct word in speeches and internal government documents. However, it is reality that plays a role, and in reality the government and the Foreign Minister seem to think that it is reasonable to give Saudi Arabia, where women almost lack all rights, a role as leader of the UN's gender equality work. We got a new exposé from the Secretary of State. But if I may make my question more specific, how does the Foreign Minister feel that the very fact that Saudi Arabia is leading the UN Commission on Women can help to develop the UN's work on gender equality? Virtually all countries are members of the UN, but not all of them have leading positions. This is fundamentally as inappropriate as when Muammar Gaddafi was President of the UN Commission on Human Rights. The risk is that the credibility of the UN as an organisation will be degraded when countries such as these take on a leading role and become the main responsibility. I am concerned about this. Whether we have a Social Democratic government that calls itself feminist or if we have an alliance government in the country, I am convinced that we will have a broad focus on issues relating to sexual and reproductive health and rights and women's rights. I myself sat on the Foreign Affairs Committee for eight years during the time of the Alliance Government, and I know that at that time we had a fairly broad consensus and consensus behind the Alliance's policy. The Social Democrats supported this in many ways. Today, too, we are trying to have a broad consensus. We in the Alliance may not have said that we had a feminist foreign policy, but I am not entirely convinced that there is a difference between then and now. We think it is good that there have been reports on human rights. However, I believe that we should be critical in addition to these. Of course, the criticism must be made with some diplomacy, as it is not easy at all times to be loudly critical and at the same time achieve success. It is nevertheless important that Sweden stands upright and is a leading force in terms of human rights in the world. I would like a more detailed answer on how Saudi Arabia's presence and leadership can contribute to improved work.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-64	Mr President, I would like to I will come back to the fact that there are many questions which both I and my colleague have asked and which we cannot fully answer in this debate. I'm sorry about that. The Minister refers to the fact that we have argued that some countries should not be in the UN. Neither of us has written it in our interpellations or raised it in the debate. What we are talking about and debating is that one of the countries where women have the least freedom is now leading the work on gender equality. This puts us in the eye and lowers the credibility of the United Nations. It risks stopping or at least slowing down the development of gender equality. This is what we're worried about. We believe that Sweden needs to take a much stronger position in order to get these countries to change the situation for women and above all not to allow Saudi Arabia to lead the work on gender equality. That is where the debate should lie, I think. And some questions are, as I said, unanswered. I would like to return to the fact that it is not always easy to be a feminist, especially in tough situations. Often you have to be the toughest in the regimes where women are at their worst in order to change and achieve success. I believe that Sweden, the Swedish Government and we must all be extremely much tougher in the forums that exist. I think the government can step up in this area and get tougher. I have not criticised the reports that come from the government, but I do not think they are enough. I do not think that these reports are read by those who need to read them most. You have to sit face to face with these regimes and really talk about what you think. Another example of this that also stuck me in the eye was when the government went to Iran and followed the veil. Thousands of women in Iran daily post pictures on Facebook, for example, to show how they defy the veil to try to bring about change. Organizations such as My Stealthy Freedom, who fight for women's rights every day, say that they regret that Western women come to Iran and follow the veil duty while they themselves struggle daily to regain their rights and get dressed as they please. Once again, this is just one example, but I think it is important that at every chance we have tried to stand up for women's rights and show that we do not accept the laws that exist in some countries where women's freedom is limited somewhat enormously. At least as feminists, we will do everything in our power to try to change these laws. I understand that diplomacy is often difficult, that it is not always easy. You have to put things forward in a good way. But you also sometimes have to be tough. One must dare to stand up for our values and dare to stand up for women's rights in all situations. I expect the government to do that even more than today. Again, I would like answers to my basic question. What is the government's position on Saudi Arabia's leading gender equality work? Does the government think it is good or bad that it is so in the UN today? How does the government want to work to influence Saudi Arabia and other countries to give women the basic human rights that they should of course enjoy? I hope for an answer that is more detailed than the reports we have already read and read.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-72	Mr President, I would like to I thought that in a slightly more conciliatory tone Christian raised a number of very important issues, where hopefully we also have a great consensus. This includes sexual and reproductive health. I welcome the fact that we can pursue these issues in broad agreement. Of course, we are working actively to reform the UN. It is easy to see the shortcomings of the UN in different contexts. The way in which members and countries are appointed to various functions is one of the things that should be reviewed. The truth is, 45 countries are on the Women's Commission. How, then, would they be appointed? Should you review their gender equality policy and say that it is only those who have an ambitious gender equality policy that should sit there, or how should it be done? Right now it is a geographical distribution of the sites. That's how it works, and we can think of it what we want. We might want to change that. However, this means that even a number of countries that absolutely do not have the same view of equality as we are sitting there, and we openly criticise the way in which they drive these issues. It's good that I get questions and that we can go from headgear to the main thing. How do you push the issues of gender equality? Yes, they are driven by pushing women's rights – human rights are women's rights. That is why, firstly, we are using our embassies to ensure that we have projects that help to remove discriminatory legislation for women and to ensure that they have the same rights in full. Secondly, through representation – by ensuring that women have a voice, that women are represented and sitting at the table where important decisions are made. That is exactly how we are now pushing the issues in the UN Security Council. We can show how many concrete results can be achieved. This can range from negotiating a peace agreement to hearing the voices of women in the Security Council itself. Thirdly, it is about resources. How are resources distributed in the world? Do they go equally to meet the needs of women and girls? We therefore make a difference every day through all our embassies, and this has been done through feminist foreign policy. That's also where the ideas come from. Perhaps you attribute a somewhat too large role to the UN Commission on Women if you think that a country holding the Presidency – on which we have a lot of views in this case, just like a number of other countries in the Women's Commission – is entirely political. In fact, the countries most active in the Women's Commission also influence the mood, the final results and the recommendations. Unfortunately, experience has been that it is the Vatican State that has been able to influence the Women's Commission. But a country like Sweden also makes a difference by being active and presenting concrete proposals. That's exactly how we're going to move forward. We will continue to look at rights, representation and resources for women. The reports are, of course, a basis for all our bilateral contacts, in everything we do through diplomacy and politics.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-77	Mr President, I would like to No, we should not attribute too much power to the Women's Commission, but this still gives a very clear signal to a large organisation like the UN as a whole, because I think it is understood very clearly that they are responsible for the development work in the UN's gender equality policy. As I said, women's rights are human rights. I am still not quite clear about what feminist foreign policy means and how concretely it differs from previous foreign policy. From the way I see it, it's about us standing up for the equal value of all people. About half of the world's population are women. They have the same rights as everyone else and should have them. Unfortunately, there are many countries where this is not the case. Saudi Arabia is one of them. Therefore, it is interesting to hear how Sweden reasoned and acted. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good debate on this subject. I hope that the government will be a driving force on these issues and also critical of the leadership of the Women's Commission, which, as I have said, has anything but progressive starting points on these issues. Many thanks for the debate. We'll get back to you, won't we?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-80	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to finish where I started. Saudi Arabia is one of the countries where women have it at its most difficult. You can't drive. You can't dress like you want. Because you're underage, you can't make decisions without the approval of your male guardian. You can't wear makeup. You can't compete in all sports. You can't get a divorce. You can get raped legally. It is therefore one of the worst countries for women to live in. Despite this, the government may have voted in favour of Saudi Arabia now leading the work on gender equality in the UN. At least this response defends the system in the UN that makes this possible, defends the diplomatic nature of it so that Saudi Arabia can lead the UN Commission on Gender Equality. This is problematic about how the UN is perceived by others, but above all about how the UN and our views are perceived by this regime. How can we be credible in criticising Saudi Arabia when we have legitimised them by putting them in the Equality Commission? How can we say that they basically have the worst gender equality policy in the world when we have agreed that they should lead that work? That is the basic problem: the credibility for us when we criticise them, the credibility of the UN and the legitimacy of their work on gender equality. I would like the government, instead of being a Minister of Comfort, to be tough and tough feminists who speak out and stand up for women's rights when it is difficult and not only when it is easy, who sit face-to-face with regimes and dictators and always defend women. I expect that, and I hope that will be a contribution from this debate. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-83	Mr President, I would like to I thank both interpellants for this important debate. It goes without saying that Sweden, with a feminist government and an ambitious gender equality and equality agenda, wants to see a strong and progressive women's commission in the UN. We have criticisms of a wide range of countries sitting in the Women's Commission because of their lack of respect for human rights, their lack of equality and their lack of respect for the principles of the rule of law. This should be a body that acts as a regulatory and innovative body and is a source of inspiration. There's a deal. Sweden and many of us in the European Union are striving for this. We work with it daily, monthly and annually. But if you are to sit face to face with them, you cannot at the same time say that they must not be in that organ. We do not give up, but the world does not look like it does in Sweden or in Europe. In an organisation that represents all the corners of the world and aims to ensure that all Member States speak up, the reality can be complex. We must continue our dialogue, our criticism and the way in which we work on this – also in the field and with the help of our embassies, where we are very clear. I will gladly send you the report with results and stories about the feminist foreign policy, Christian Holm Barenfeld, so that you will find out a little about how we have worked. How does it differ? To give just two examples: we are working very actively on, for example, disarmament issues. I have also talked time and again about the need to combat sexual violence in war and conflict. When we went through the speeches from my predecessor, there was not a single mention. This is also at the top of the UN agenda. Thank you very much, too, for an important debate! I'd be happy to continue.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-90	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld and Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby have asked me how the government has acted, bilaterally and within the EU, to support the opposition and other freedom defenders in Venezuela. Christian Barenfeld has also asked how criticism is being made to the increasingly undemocratic regime. The interpellants have also asked me how Sweden has acted and intend to act within the UN Security Council to deal with this issue. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The subject could not be more topical. Of course, I share the concerns of the interpellants about the increasingly serious and deteriorating situation in Venezuela. In recent months protests and violent clashes between demonstrators and regime forces continue and have so far resulted in many injured and dead. The protests triggered by the government-believing Supreme Court taking over the powers of the national parliament at the end of March have now turned into more general expressions of dissatisfaction with the economic situation and the regime's attempts to undermine democratic order. The political crisis has been further deepened by President Maduros's announcement that he intends to establish – he has set up – a Constituent National Assembly with powers to revise the country's constitution. The opposition and many independent assessors see the proposal as another attempt to circumscribe Parliament's influence and avoid planned elections. Venezuela is becoming increasingly isolated. Several countries in the region have openly criticised the government and called for peaceful solutions, while Venezuela and its allies claim that criticism is an attempt to interfere in its internal affairs. Even within the OAS, criticism has been sharp, which has led Venezuela to withdraw from the organisation. Since the start of the protests, the EU spokesperson has spoken on developments in Venezuela on three occasions, and the EU Foreign Affairs Council has adopted Council conclusions. In its statements, the EU has pointed out that the use of violence does not solve the current crisis. All parties have been called upon to put an end to violence and to work constructively to find a solution based on human rights and democratic institutions. It has also been pointed out that the establishment of an electoral calendar and the release of imprisoned oppositionists are crucial steps to regain political stability in the country. The EU calls for external cooperation to respond to the urgent needs of the people and signals readiness to support efforts to find peaceful and democratic solutions. Sweden obviously supports these statements. The UN Security Council was updated on 17 May on the situation in Venezuela. A dividing line was made clear between those members of the Council who believe that the situation in Venezuela – at least in the long term – could pose a threat to international peace and security and those members who consider the crisis to be an internal matter and should therefore not be discussed in the Council. Sweden welcomed the update and expressed, in accordance with the EU Council conclusions, its concern for development and full support for regional efforts. Sweden also stressed the importance of the UN being prepared to assist the region. Sweden continues to follow closely developments in Venezuela and requires respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. We will continue to press for the issue to be addressed within the EU and for the EU and other international actors to be allowed to provide humanitarian assistance to meet the increasingly urgent needs of the Venezuelan population.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-98	Mr President, I would like to Another topical topic to debate. I would like to start again by thanking the Foreign Minister for his response to the interpellation. I am sorry it has taken so long, but it is the same explanation now. I also regret that one of the reasons why the answer is so delayed is personal reasons on the part of the Foreign Minister. Regardless of this, this interpellation was also written at the end of April. At that time, the situation in Venezuela was serious. It is even more serious today. The situation in Venezuela is getting worse and the issue of fundamental human rights and democracy is perhaps more topical than ever in the country. Democracy in Venezuela, which can now be seen as abolished, has been in decline since Hugo Chávez and his successor Nicolá Maduro began their work of introducing the socialism of the 21st century through their socialist revolution soon two decades ago. When I receive the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I note that the answer is not as topical as the debate. The answer states that a referendum has been called and that it intends to set up a constitutional assembly. That referendum has been held – at the end of July it was held, on the initiative of the President. It was therefore a question of setting up a constitutional assembly which will fundamentally deprive Parliament of all power and turn Maduro into a full-blood dictator. The referendum is over. All the 545 seats happened to go to representatives of the Socialist Party of the President. Unfortunately, a large number of people have also been killed in connection with the elections, and several oppositionists have been shot to death. Children have also been among those who have fallen victim to the brutality of the regime. Many have also been forced into exile. It is important that the outside world now protests strongly. The United States has condemned what is happening in harsh terms. The Norwegian Foreign Minister Børge Brende was out early with his criticism. The EU has also voiced criticism of events – perhaps somewhat more quiet. That statement has been supported by Sweden, which is good and welcomed. But the Constitutional Assembly is in fact already in force, so it would be interesting to get a more up-to-date picture from the Foreign Minister than what is stated in the Foreign Minister's reply, which was probably written in the spring. As I said, this is a serious situation in the country that has been going on for a long time. The repression of the political opposition is increasing. Human rights violations are commonplace, and democratic principles have been abolished. Media freedom is severely limited, and companies have been nationalised and seized. People die daily as a result of the socialist revolution in the country. Unfortunately, the media picture here in Sweden is not always quite correct, as we have discussed in previous debates. We have been able to follow reports that the crisis in Venezuela is due to oil prices and so on. It doesn't. It is clear that all oil countries are affected by the price of oil, but Venezuela's problems come from the leadership of the country and political mismanagement. I have put interpellations on Venezuela to the Foreign Minister in the past, well aware that foreign policy in Sweden is largely driven through the EU. There, Sweden has every opportunity to be proactive and active in foreign policy. I am pleased that I am now being given the answer that Sweden will be driving, not just looking at and supporting. It would therefore be interesting to hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs how Sweden has been a driving force within the EU and other fora in terms of influencing the regime in Venezuela.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-108	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Wallström, for your answer. The situation in Venezuela is getting worse day by day. So I began my interpellation to Secretary of State Wall empty, which I submitted on 28 April. I, too, regret the reason why the answer has been delayed. Since then, however, the situation in Venezuela has worsened. From the fact that Venezuela has previously been quiet both in the media and in this House, the television screen is now filled with horrible images of how the Venezuelan people are affected. The situation is very worrying. Daily, there are now battles between the people and Maduros's police and army. Unfortunately, the Swedish Government is still silent. Unfortunately, the answer given today by Foreign Minister Wallström is also out of date. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to President Maduro's intention to set up a constitutive National Assembly, as my colleague, Christian Holm, also mentioned, with the power to revise the country's constitution. Since then, an undemocratic referendum has been held, and Mrs Maduro has set up this very Council. In the referendum, 3 million of Venezuelan voters took part, compared to the 14 million who participated when the opposition took place in the National Assembly by a large majority. The new Constitutional Assembly will deprive the elected parliament of its ability to re-establish democracy and human rights in Venezuela. In any case, I had expected Foreign Minister Wallström to give the impression of being interested in and familiar with the difficult situation that Venezuela and its people are in. That's why I'm very perplexed that Margot Wallström chose to send a reply to Christian Holm and me who was apparently written sometime in early May. I have also previously intervened on Venezuela and on how the Swedish Government intends to act. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström said at the last interpellation that she shared my view that the situation in Venezuela is very worrying. Unfortunately, today's response does not reflect the previous words of the Foreign Minister. Since my previous interpellation, Sweden has also taken place in the UN Security Council. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also mentions that the Security Council on 17 May, which for me as previously Norwegian is a very important date, was updated on the situation in Venezuela. Then I wonder how Sweden, based on the information you received then, has acted. Being a driving force is not the same as backing the European Union. You don't drive if you follow John. It's driving you if you go in front. Therefore, Mr President, in view of what I have said, particularly the outdated written reply by the Foreign Minister, I would like to give Foreign Minister Wallström a new opportunity to answer the following questions: has the concern expressed by Foreign Minister Wallström resulted in any action on the part of the Swedish Government, apart from supporting the UN and the European Union? How do Margot Wallström and the Swedish Government intend to use Sweden's place in the UN Security Council to put pressure on Maduro on his repression of the inhabitants of his own country of Venezuela?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-117	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the interpellants for once again raising the issue of Venezuela in this House. I think the answer you have received was formulated earlier, when I was supposed to be here and answer. Unfortunately, for family reasons, I was prevented. I believe that this must be the reason why it is already out of date. I also tried to correct this point in my reply. The new Constitutional Court has already begun to try to take decisions that we see as very worrying and offensive. We agree on the urgency of discussing this here and now. We have seen an increasingly violent situation on the streets of Venezuela and also an increasingly profound political and humanitarian crisis. This is deeply worrying, and now the international community must act. It's important that we do something together. What can Sweden do? That's a good question. First of all, I must explain that Sweden's bilateral exchange with Venezuela is limited, as you are well aware. We have no embassy in the country for a long time. We have no aid, and we have a relatively small trade. From this point of view, there are natural limitations to what can be achieved bilaterally. That is why, from the outset, our efforts have been directed primarily towards multilateral cooperation. There are two possible tracks to the UN and the EU. As I mentioned earlier, the Security Council has been updated on Venezuela. It was good that the situation in the country was discussed, and Sweden will of course participate in any further discussions. Venezuela, however, is not natural as a country situation on the Security Council's agenda. We have also discovered that there are certain differences of opinion in the Council on this issue, and it reduces the possibility of pursuing the issue in the Security Council as a forum. That is why we need to evaluate the possibility for the UN to engage more widely in this matter. The EU, on the other hand, has been committed to Venezuela for a long time and has expressed its views on the situation on a number of occasions. This has been more frequent lately. There is also a discussion within the EU on how, in line with the Council conclusions that we have adopted together, we can help to find both democratic and peaceful solutions. In these discussions, we in Sweden are trying to be balanced, constructive and proactive so that we can get the EU to continue to address this issue. It is clear that we can only be strong if we work with the other EU countries because we have not even had our own embassy in the country for many years. Then it will also be more difficult to act bilaterally. The EU has also tried to provide humanitarian aid in the past, but the Venezuelan Government has made it more difficult; they have not wanted that. At the same time, the shortage of both food and medicines is becoming increasingly acute. That is why, as the next step, we in Sweden will push for the EU and other international actors to be able to provide humanitarian aid in particular. We also believe that the EU must take a more active role in finding a peaceful solution to the crisis and also in encouraging neighbouring countries. We believe that it is in the region that opportunities can be found to put pressure on Venezuela.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-126	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. We were told in part, but it would be interesting to perhaps even more clearly hear what is the position of the Swedish government and intended to act forward. Now we are where we are, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained that there are a little different views both within the EU and the UN, not least within the UN Security Council. There are both countries that like democracy and countries that do not. Its better, of course, is Sweden one of the countries that is a driving force in terms of democracy. Does the Foreign Minister think that the situation in Venezuela is a matter for the UN Security Council? Some want to make this an issue that should be dealt with nationally in Venezuela, and if I am not completely wrong, the UN Security Council is more connected when there is a risk of regional effects or effects in more than just the country in question. I am convinced that the situation in Venezuela definitely has an impact in the neighbourhood. Venezuela is not the country with which Sweden has the most bilateral relations – perhaps it is also quite correct that this is the case. Sweden is a large aid country compared to our country's size. However, the EU is the world's largest donor of aid, and Sweden is an important part of it. If we are active there, then we can achieve success. I am not proposing a great deal of aid to Venezuela, but we can actively, in various ways and even if it is difficult, help to support all those who are in a difficult situation in the country. I myself have friends who are currently in prison and who I do not have much opportunity to have contact with even through their lawyers. We also have a number of people who live in exile and who, when the Maduros socialist revolution is over, obviously have a great potential and an important role in Venezuela to lead the country further in democratisation. In some situations you get the description that it is about two sides, and it usually does – at least. But this is not about two good or two evils, but here it is an oppressive regime against an opposition, which essentially has democratic intentions. It is important that we are clear that we are against the regime and its repression and support democratic opposition. The fact that we have the debate here in Parliament is in itself important, because the signals sent from parliaments around the world or when the Foreign Minister tweets – preferably in Utrikian – are heard in other countries. It will be a support to those who every day are working with their safety and risk both freedom and life to get a change in the country. I hope and expect that the Swedish Government will be a strong driver in the European Union, which may do more than the United Nations. I also hope that the UN will be clearly driven to get the UN Security Council involved in this issue, to make clear demands on the regime and hopefully to achieve success. Thank you for the debate so far. I guess I'll have another post if it's necessary.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-133	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström! I do not question your commitment to Venezuela, but it is time to move from words to action. As my colleague Christian Barenfeld said, it is important that we have this debate in this House, because there are people who are following us out there. Right now there are a number of exiles following this debate from the gallery. I understand that Sweden and Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström cannot intervene in the affairs of another country. It is unfortunate that, as you describe it, there is opposition within the UN Security Council to act against the Maduro and the Venezuelan regime. But the facts remain: Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström and the Red Green Government have on several occasions promised to work both inside and outside the UN Security Council for democracy and human rights. This is indeed a question of democracy and human rights. In May of this year, about the same time you were told by the UN Security Council, I was in Miami and met a number of exiles who told me about the situation. It was bad then, and it's escalating now. I therefore wonder when Mrs Wallström and the Swedish Government are going to move from words to action in relation to the extreme situation in which Venezuela and its people find themselves. I share Christian Barenfeld's concern about how Sweden should be a concrete driving force in the UN Security Council and within the EU. Time is running out for the Venezuelan population. During the summer, one of the most prominent leaders of the opposition, López López, was taken from his home by Maduros's police. The mayor of Caraca, Antonio Ledezma, who has been driving the protests against Maduro, was also abducted from his home. Luisa Ortega Díaz, Venezuela's highest prosecutor, who has previously been very Madurotrogen, was fired and charged with abuse of power when she questioned the legality of the President's actions. Right now, 13 of the Supreme Court judges are in exile. Three of them are in the Chilean embassy in Caracas. Ten others have gone abroad. Venezuela is no longer a democracy. In Venezuela, human rights are violated every day. That is why I keep returning to the question. I understand that the commitment of the Swedish Government is great. I'm not questioning that. But what I want to hear – and I know that those who listen to this debate and love their country Venezuela even though they live in Stockholm also want to hear it – are when and how the Swedish Government intends to move from words to action and not just continue to welcome the protests of others. We must self-criticise and propose concrete measures against Venezuela's dictator Maduro.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-138	Mr President, I would like to I have no other description of the reality in Venezuela than that expressed by the interpellants. One can add to the list a hundred and fifty deaths that have already been reported, and many people have been injured in the clashes that have taken place in streets and squares. We expect that there are nearly 100 civilians who, contrary to the Constitution, have been prosecuted in military courts. What can we do? That is the question, and I have not heard any suggestions as to what you think we can do. Since we have very limited bilateral opportunities, it is above all with greater force that we can operate through the UN Security Council and in the European circle. That's where we do it. We do so because we believe that the Security Council must work to prevent conflicts. That is why we will insist on getting this issue up for discussion. We will also insist on the admission of humanitarian aid. It is also very important for the European community. We will use our contacts with neighbouring countries and the region's organisations so that they can also exert influence. We are following all these developments very closely, including where threatened people can go, to see how both the EU and individual countries can help. Of course, we demand the release of political prisoners. We must make use of the EU's various economic and political opportunities to exert pressure. We argued for a long time that Maduro should also resume the interrupted dialogue with the opposition. But this cannot be done by simultaneously imprisoning the leaders of the opposition, as Mrs Maduro has done. It is not possible to get any talks or negotiations if you act like that. However, this is the way we need to move forward in a difficult situation. Maduro is a leader who is highly tone-deaf and acts in a way that destroys the possibilities of getting help to vulnerable people and making sure that there is a change in the country. We want a peaceful solution to the Venezuelan crisis. In the UN context, we are constantly insisting on this. Conflict prevention is the most important thing. Then we must be able to see such changes in Venezuela. We will use all the channels that we have and all the influence that we have both in the European Union and in the United Nations. If you have any other thoughts about what would be possible to do, you are of course welcome to present them. But it is both political and humanitarian and, of course, international pressure that must be used to overcome the oppression that exists and the very serious situation that we see in Venezuela.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-144	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is a fact that democracy in Venezuela is now abolished and that it is now a full-blooded socialist dictatorship under the dictator Nicolá Maduro. I think we agree on that. What can be done? I hope, as I said, that the government will be a driving force and a strong force in European cooperation and in the UN for us to act. What exactly are you supposed to do? On the other hand, I would like to put the question back to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. She says that Sweden is driving and asks what opportunities we see ourselves. It is difficult to make very concrete in certain situations. However, the mere fact that it makes clear statements and calls for the release and rehabilitation of political prisoners, and is happy to mention them by name, is of great importance. From the experience of meetings with former political prisoners from other countries, we know that it usually comes to the prisoners that there is someone out in the world who actually thinks about them. You can support the diaspora. There are quite a few Venezuelans who live in different places in the world, also here in Stockholm. Some people do it voluntarily, some of them have to. Then, of course, we can also try to get humanitarian aid and support from independent media, which have a difficult situation in the country, to oppositionists. But not least, one must try to be a driving force so that the EU's statements are clear, clear, active and committed. I would therefore like to thank you for a good debate and hope, for many reasons, that we will not have debates on Venezuela and other dictatorships and will instead see positive developments.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-150	Mr President, I would like to As my colleague Christian Holm Barenfeld said, there are a number of things we can do. I also believe that personal commitment is very important. We have been on the conservative side of our global organisation and greeted the opposition in the Venezuelan Parliament. It is something that is appreciated. They must feel like they're being seen. They must feel that we know about them. They must know that they have strong support. The Venezuelan opposition is not a bourgeois opposition. It is an opposition consisting of everything from Social Democrats to Conservatives. So it's the whole spectrum – there's a lot of parties. There is room for all parties in the Swedish Parliament to get involved in this issue. Mr President, I would like to We politicians choose to engage. With our commitment, there are sometimes certain consequences. In Sweden we risk being criticized and perhaps not being re-elected if we do not do what our voters want. In countries and dictatorships like Venezuela, it is a matter of life and death. Those of us who have the privilege of living in a democracy are obliged to raise our voices for those who cannot. We are currently debating Venezuela. It could have been another country. Democracy in Venezuela is in crisis, but those suffering are the Venezuelan people. There's a shortage of food. There's a lack of medication. Over 50% of the population live in extreme poverty. Child mortality is escalating. There's a shortage of electricity. The number of robberies and murders is increasing. Venezuela is at its peak in corrupt countries. The situation in Venezuela is not just a crisis of democracy. It's a humanitarian crisis. Unfortunately, we are also soon beyond the prospect of a peaceful solution. Therefore, Mr President, I ask Foreign Minister Wallström one last time: how will Sweden be driving this important issue? I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good debate, which I appreciate.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We are also working on reports on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The report we recently published on Venezuela notes precisely the gross human rights violations. I think that you Members of Parliament, both of you, have given an excellent, but terrible, picture of what the reality is in Venezuela. Unfortunately, we will have reason to come back to a discussion on this. What is worrying now, precisely in terms of human suffering, is the lack of food and medicines. It affects those who are already the most vulnerable. We've had reports of babies dying of malnutrition. It's a humanitarian crisis. That is why we insist that we have to ensure that we have humanitarian access to Venezuela. We will act in the European Union so that we can create a consensus with efforts that will draw attention to the situation and encourage, so to speak, a political solution. It is about not escalating and becoming even more violent and that we must have respect for democratic principles and institutions. We will also continue to want to discuss this issue for the purpose of conflict prevention in the UN community and try to reach agreement on this. We must be able to speak with one voice about how we view the situation. We are making statements and will continue to do so. Then I think it's just as we heard. Personal commitment is always the best thing. This means that there will be the faces and names of all the people in Venezuela who are now suffering and dying and demonstrating against the regime that has become increasingly powerful and very dangerous. Here we shall continue to insist that the EU and other actors have humanitarian access and continue to engage. Thank you for the debate.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-159	Mr President, I would like to Karin Enström has asked me what I did to achieve EU unity before the vote on Unesco Resolution No 30, if Sweden made any concessions to achieve it, if I can explain why Sweden was the only country in the EU that voted for and what consequences I believe this will have for the EU's common voice in foreign policy. UNESCO's aim, first and foremost, and its role is to strengthen international cooperation in education, science, culture and communication. The main reason for Sweden's position was that Resolution No 30 is important in protecting and preserving cultural heritage of high historical, religious and political value for both Christianity and Judaism and Islam. These three monotheistic religions all have strong ties with Jerusalem and the sacred places, and this is explicitly stated in the resolution. Sweden supports the implementation of the two-state solution and counteracts decisions that anticipate or undermine the status of Jerusalem as the future capital of two states, in accordance with the EU Council of Ministers conclusions of 8 December 2009. Sweden was actively and consistently in favour of a common EU line in the EU coordination meetings on the Middle East Resolutions of the UNESCO Executive Board. EU unity was reached early on with a number of messages to Palestine and Jordan, which negotiated this resolution on behalf of the proposers. The messages were mainly that the EU wanted to see a shorter and more focused resolution within UNESCO's mandate and that some formulations, including the name of the sacred sites, were problematic. The EU delegation, which represented the Union in the negotiations, was internally clear that the Member States would raise any objections to the text, and so did several Member States during the negotiations. In the negotiations, Jordan and Palestine then showed great willingness to meet the EU Member States. The resolution was abbreviated from 41 to 16 paragraphs and became more focused as requested by the EU. The text was amended in several of the remaining paragraphs as concessions to the EU in the negotiations. In the text submitted to the vote, the EU had heard all the comments. After the final draft resolution was tabled, one of the EU Member States announced at a late stage that it intended to break the EU consensus and vote against it. Additional Member States then announced their intention to vote 'no' and thus announced that they would abstain. Only then, when it became clear that the EU was unable to maintain unity, Sweden decided to vote in favour of the resolution. In the negotiations, Sweden agreed to a series of wordings in order to preserve EU unity. Several European countries, including the EU delegation, have expressed appreciation for Sweden's flexible and consensus-seeking stance in the negotiations. The government sees the EU as our most important foreign policy arena, which is why we will continue to strive for European unity in both UNESCO and other multilateral contexts.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-163	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. The interpellation that we are debating now has not only days but a few months on its back, which could have meant that it was out of date. But the events of the summer in the region show that the questions I am asking are highly relevant. The EU must show unity in the work for peace in one of the most complex conflicts in the world. I welcome the fact that Sweden and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in their response support the two-state solution and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Sweden actively and consistently worked for a common EU line in the coordination meetings on the Middle East resolutions of the UNESCO Board. This is underlined by what the Foreign Minister said in the Foreign Affairs Declaration in February of this year. Then Margot Wallström said: In order to navigate among today's challenges, we need to see how peace, freedom and reconciliation can be achieved in our part of the world. That is why the European Union remains so important to us, and the government will make a strong contribution to a Europe that is coherent and solid in principle. ..................................................... But, Mr President, with regard to Israel and Palestine, it is not the first time that Sweden, under Margot Wallström and the Red-Green Government, has chosen to go its own way instead of coordinating with the other Member States of the European Union. The Swedish decision to recognise Palestine broke the unity within the EU for a common voice and line in the peace process. In my view and in our view, recognition came too early and was in breach of Sweden's principles regarding the recognition of states. We said then, Mr President, that we did not believe that this would affect or set the peace process in motion and that it would have had a better effect in promoting the joint action of all the Member States of the European Union. We are still saying this because we cannot see that the government's actions have had a positive impact on the peace process. Sweden was under the power of the alliance government and was then also able to create unity within the EU for a common voice and line in the peace process between Israel and Palestine. This line has been maintained by the current government and, in my opinion, partly deviated from it, and it is partly pursuing its own agenda, particularly in terms of recognition. We now come to the point: in the vote that we are now talking about and about which the interpellation is concerned, Sweden therefore voted as the only EU country to approve this resolution. If we are to be faithful to the pursuit of European unity and the EU is to be a positive force on foreign policy issues, as I am sure the government also believes, then the EU was not united in this case. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs once again: if the Minister for Foreign Affairs now defends European unity so strongly, did Sweden, once it voted, know that it was the only EU country to vote in favour? Would Sweden have been prepared to abstain or to vote against it if the EU had agreed on such a position against this resolution?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-171	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I am very sorry that I now have to take away from Karin Enström an illusion, namely that Europe would be united on the Middle East issue. Europe has not been, it is not and it will not be. Now the question is what is the right way forward. Karin Enström says that she thinks it was too early to recognise Palestine. I'm saying I think maybe it was too late. This is important. It is important because it can help to make the two parties a little less equal. It helps to create some hope for all those who still have dreams of a two-state solution and that there should be a Palestine that they can call their country. We also believe that a new dynamic and a discussion on how to move forward towards a two-state solution must be achieved. We continue to contribute in our way by also working, for example, under the French initiative on contacts with civil society organisations from both Israel and Palestine. We continue to argue for the EU to implement its own 2009 decisions. Unfortunately, countries are under pressure, and I think that may have happened here too, even if I do not know. UNESCO is a Member State-led and normative UN organisation with a board of 58 countries, and we sit there on a four-year mandate. We attach great importance to UNESCO's efforts to promote cultural diversity, to preserve cultural and world heritage, and it is part of UNESCO's mandate to protect and preserve the special nature of Jerusalem as part of the World Heritage Site. Sweden and several EU Member States continue to support the UNESCO Executive Board and its consensus decision to send a UNESCO mission to the World Heritage site of Jerusalem's old city and its walls and also to want a permanent UNESCO representative in East Jerusalem. We have not yet achieved this, but it is important for this Commission to be able to carry out its mission. It was already agreed by the parties in 2013. If we get more facts, it reduces polarisation and the risk of the conflict taking religious expression, because there are forces that want to make Israel – the Palestine conflict a religious conflict – very dangerous. This must be avoided and UNESCO helps to reduce that risk. That is why I think that we should continue to work together to ensure that UNESCO can play this role. The vote on the resolution took place on 3 May with 22 votes in favour of the resolution, which is twice as many as voted against. Approximately the same number – 23 countries – chose to abstain. Sweden supported the resolution because it was and is important, and the thing was that we negotiated as the European Union. We got everything through that we demanded, and then it's a country– not Sweden– that goes out and says they won't vote for it anyway. We must, of course, have some consistency in such a negotiation, and something other than voting for a resolution in which we had got through all that we were asking for would have been very remarkable and wrong. We will not be reliable or credible in such negotiations on resolutions. Such a situation arose here, and then we had to be consistent.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-181	Mr President, I would like to This resolution, we should remember, is recurring and has been revised, and has repeatedly been taken up in different versions and different designs on the UNESCO Board of Directors. I hear what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says and how she describes how it happened, how it was negotiated as the EU and then, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs describes, it gets into a difficult situation. I would therefore like to reiterate the question of whether, when Sweden was voting, it knew that it would be as the only EU country. It is important because we have discussed how important it is to seek European unity on as many issues as possible. We know that this is one of the most difficult issues in all of Israel – the Palestine conflict and in the Middle East policy. Nevertheless, did those who negotiated when they took a stand and, well, abstained, know that they were the only EU country to vote in favour? I think it is very important, because it is linked to the second question. If you knew this, did you do it, so to speak, deliberately? If one had understood that one could have obtained a united position from the EU either by all abstaining or by everyone voting 'no', would Sweden have been prepared to do so? It is also a matter of principle. As far as the situation in the region and this issue are concerned, the summer has unfortunately been very violent and very conflict-filled right around Tempelberget. Many have been killed, and there has been great concern. So we see that the issue is very topical, and that is why, as Mrs Wallström describes, efforts must of course be made all the time to bring down the level of conflict and to work towards an agreement between the European Union, which was nevertheless successful. Sweden had, I would say, a large part of it. Then, of course, there are differences of opinion and interests in what is not in these guidelines. It was obviously that one could not get a consensus on a yes, but would Sweden, if one had known that one could get a consensus on something else, in such cases be able to follow it?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-186	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Enström! It is true that this summer has shown how dangerous it can be and how important it is to avoid this developing into a religious conflict as well. It has been shown how careful and gentle one must be about a place that is sacred to three world religions and also how close it is that this goes completely out of our hands when it comes to the development of violence, and we also saw how all sorts of security checks and other things were put in place. Thankfully, it was able to descalate later, and that was very good. In the text negotiations between the EU, Jordan and Palestine, the EU heard all the views. If you hear and get through your demands, you vote in favour. That is how it is done in the UN, otherwise the incentives from third countries to negotiate with the EU Member States both in UNESCO and in other contexts will be reduced. Through our actions, some EU Member States undermined the credibility of the EU as a negotiating partner in multilateral fora and also reduced the EU's future impact. It was important to be consistent and follow the usual rules. The Member States divided into three groups. And it is perhaps more important to ask the country that actually broke the consensus how it came about. Were they influenced in some way, or what happened? I defend our decision and our position 100% on this matter, because we would be impossible to deal with if we had not been able to act consistently even when we actually got all our demands through. It is not for me that the questions should be asked. It is to those who broke the unity, who failed to act consistently. It is a great sorrow for this whole issue. Then it is sad that we have to have this debate every year. Finally, one wonders whether it is leading forward at all, that there are only conflicts over the procedures themselves. I'm sure Karin Enström will agree with me on that. This is something you need to discuss eventually. But one way to solve this would be to implement the requirement to have a commission of inquiry that can look at the facts on the ground and that can help us to understand exactly what is happening. That would be the best part. I think you've heard that the people we've been working with think we acted constructively. We are always looking for European unity, but it has become increasingly difficult. EU countries are sprawling in all kinds of directions. Unfortunately, it is also the case that, when we discuss in the Council of Ministers of the European Union, everything that is said there is coming out immediately, and those who sit there are under pressure. That is not acceptable. Here we acted consistently.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-194	Mr President, I would like to On the basis of what the Foreign Minister has just said and what has happened, I asked in my interpellation the very question of what this, along with everything else that is happening, has to do with the EU's ability to have a common voice in foreign policy. When the EU acts together with all its instruments, it is an effective global player and should be able to do so. I would like an answer to how the Minister for Foreign Affairs assesses this individual event and what Sweden has done since then. The Secretary of State asked the question: Why was that? Yes, what does Sweden do to avoid, above all, this kind of very surprising course of events, which I understand is difficult to handle during a very short time course? What have the consequences – it is now several months ago – for the EU's ability to reach a common voice, which it obviously does not have on this issue? What have Sweden and the Minister for Foreign Affairs done to reduce the risk of this happening again?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-196	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the current Unesco resolution, Sweden was in favour of EU unity. We regret that other Member States of the European Union broke this consensus and voted against or abstained, despite the fact that all the points made by the European Union were heard. If the EU gets its demands through and the forum is right, the EU should vote in favour – Sweden did, and many have thanked us for that – otherwise the EU will knock itself out as a credible negotiating partner and reduce its potential for influence. The government continues to see the EU as our most important foreign policy arena. We will continue to strive for European unity in both UNESCO and other multilateral contexts. This time the question has to be put to someone else. In fact, we did everything that fell on us and will continue to act for unity, for consensus and for a constructive debate, including on Middle East policy.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-200	Mr President, I would like to Karin Enström has asked me why I have not made more explicit criticism of the two members of the UN Security Council, Russia and China, who, according to Enström, are the reason why the UN Security Council has not been able to agree on demanding measures regarding the chemical weapons attack on civilians in Syria. Karin Enström has also asked me how I will work in the future to ensure that the UN Security Council is able to demand responsibility for the crimes in Syria. Sweden acts tirelessly in order for the guilty of crimes committed in Syria to be held accountable. The government supports both the UN Independent International Commission of Inquiry (ICI) and the UN's new investigation and accountability mechanism for war crimes and other serious international crimes committed in Syria since 2011 (International, Impartial and Independent Mechanism, IIIM). Sweden provides political, technical and financial support to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) and to the UN and OPCW Joint Investigation Mechanism (OPCW-UN Investigative Mechanism) for their handling of cases of alleged use of chemical weapons in Syria. Continue to act in the circle of elected members of the Security Council in order to demand responsibility for the terrible chemical weapons attacks is crucial in order to find a long-term sustainable solution. The government does not hesitate to put pressure on permanent members if they act in a way that is contrary to our conviction of humanitarian and international law as well as the equal value of all people. Mr President, I would like to I would like to state that Sweden has been clear in its criticism of Russia, not least, which, on two occasions this year, vetoed the draft resolution on the use of chemical weapons in Syria. Sweden's criticism of Russia is evident in the Swedish explanation of vote on 12 April, where Sweden explicitly regretted the Russian veto against the draft resolution on accountability tabled by P3 (France, the United Kingdom and the United States). Let me quote: We reret that a resolution was not passed because of a Russian veto. ..................................................... We have held regular bilateral talks with Russia on its actions in Syria, most recently in February when I visited Moscow myself and met Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov. In addition, we have presented our misdemeanour to the other permanent members in relation to the freezes in the Council on this issue. As I have explained before, Sweden was clear in expressing dissatisfaction with the actions of permanent members of the Council in connection with the Council's management following the attack in Khan Shaykhun. Two different draft resolutions were then tabled for negotiation, one from the three permanent members and one from Russia, with the obvious consequence that none of the options could be adopted. In view of the lock-up between the permanent members, all non-permanent members were convened on Swedish initiative. The consensus could be reached in that circle on a resolution text – which, like the text of the P3 and in line with the EU's call to the Security Council in a statement on 6 April – included a strong condemnation of the attack and text in support of an urgent investigation in order to hold those responsible accountable. Unfortunately, it was not possible to reach agreement among the permanent members for this text either. The issue of chemical weapons in relation to Syria was last discussed in the Council on 23 May. Sweden then regretted the disagreement in the Council and stressed the importance of bridging differences in order to move forward on this issue. We will continue to criticise Russia, as well as China and the other permanent members of the Security Council, when their actions undermine the Council's ability to act in order to maintain international peace and security.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-205	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. This interpellation debate is also late, but unfortunately it is equally topical and necessary. As the Foreign Minister states in his reply, this conflict continues to be a tragedy. It is a terrible suffering and a difficult conflict. The war by representatives of the major regional powers on Syrian soil, along with the fact that Western countries have for a long time focused on the fight against Daish, has further complicated the conflict resolution. When Russia went in with military support almost two years ago to its allied Bashar al-Asad-Assad, it did not get any easier. Since the war began, over 400,000 people have lost their lives, and over 11 million people are on the run. The UN Special Envoy is trying tirelessly to resolve the conflict but has not really achieved any major direct results. This is a difficult situation and, of course, the outside world must strongly condemn the violence, especially the brutal attacks on civilians that have occurred. As we have said many times, Sweden must act so that the guilty can be held to account. The chemical weapons attack in April against civilians in Syria is just such a crime. The attack killed nearly 100 people, many of whom were children. According to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, OPCW, sarin or sarin-like nerve gas was used in the attack. The President has denied that there has been a gas attack, and Russia has said that it was a gas that happened to come out in connection with other bombings. Mr President, I would like to The point of my question is that we know that the situation is very locked in the UN Security Council and has been so for a long time. I believe that Russia and China, in particular, have blocked resolutions by step towards progress in achieving peace in Syria. We must be clear all the time, and that is why I was surprised when, in a debate article on 16 April this year, the Minister for Foreign Affairs regretted that the permanent members of the Security Council were unable to agree. This may have been a simplification in a newspaper text. As I understand it, responsibility was shared equally between the five permanent members, namely the United States, Russia, China, France and the United Kingdom. However, according to the reports we have read, Russia was opposed. Russia and China have also vetoed sanctions against individuals who, according to the OPCW, have been involved in the use of chemical weapons in Syria. Now, in his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has shown and tried to describe the different text turns at that time and who was against what, but for me it raised concern when I perceived that the Foreign Minister chose to distribute the debt burden evenly among all permanent members of the UN Security Council. It is important that Sweden as a member of the Security Council is very clear.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-213	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Enström! I'm glad I have the opportunity to explain a little more. I hope it will not be too technical, but this is important when it comes to how we work in the Security Council. I must agree that it is incredibly important that this ruthless conflict be brought to an end and that those responsible for all the heinous crimes that have been committed be held accountable. Nor must we give up trying to find a political peaceful solution to the conflict, even if it is at present primarily about saving lives and alleviating distress. I can assure Karin Enström that we do not hesitate to criticise the members of the Security Council, not least the permanent members, when their actions go against the purpose of the Security Council. We consistently clarify our position both in the bilateral talks we have and in our interventions in the Security Council Chamber. Earlier this year, on 28 February, China and Russia used their veto against the resolution tabled by France, the United Kingdom and the United States on accountability for chemical weapons use in Syria. In our explanation of vote, we were clear in our criticism of the actions of China and Russia. We said that the Council today was not able to honor its comments, due to the use of the veto power by two of its permanent members, is deplorable. So it was Russia and China. A similar text was then included in Sweden's speech as a member of the Executive Council of the OPCW, Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The same was true of the explanation of vote on 12 April, when Russia again used its veto. I would like to point out that, in discussions at various levels with representatives from France, the United Kingdom and the United States, Sweden has also expressed dissatisfaction with their actions in relation to the Council's handling under the Presidency of the EU Security Council, following the attack in Khan Shaykhun in April. There was, in our opinion, room for a compromise. This was the reason why Sweden took the initiative to present an alternative text. This text included a strong condemnation of the attack and support for an urgent investigation to hold those responsible to account. It was regrettable that this text could not be tabled. We recalled the influence that a united circle of elected members may have on the Security Council. Our actions at that time – that we took this initiative and made an attempt – attracted appreciation from the elected members of the Security Council. Unfortunately, we can expect that the continued handling of the chemical weapons issue with regard to Syria will be characterised by the fact that there is an infected atmosphere in the Council. There was some agreement in July. At that time, China, as President-in-Office of the Council, stressed the importance of accountability for the use of chemical weapons. So there have been some signs. The last chemical weapons attacks in Syria were dealt with in the Council on 16 August, when the Head of the UN Disarmament Office was briefing the Council. I think it'll only be a good time to get the investigation commission's report in the autumn. We continue to have an important role to play in trying to overcome the contradictions and in getting the Council to take important decisions.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-220	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, it is technically a rather closed system. There are explanations of vote and records, and there are various kinds of bulletins. However, I call for the Foreign Minister and the Foreign Service to try to describe and to be as clear as possible in their criticism of those who should have criticism and that they do not give different criticisms depending on which country it happens to be or whether it is large or less large. The five permanent members are all great. What really bothers me is if we end up in some kind of kale-supper theory, that is, everyone bears the same amount of blame and that everyone has done the wrong thing. In some cases we have certainly done wrong, but in this case we have seen that Russia and China have been the biggest brake blocks, if I may put it that way. I may have missed something, but as I understand it, over the last five years Russia has vetoed the Security Council at least eight times with regard to proposals on Syria. It is a strong use and, I would say, an abuse of the right of veto. China, for its part, has vetoed six of the eight proposals. Although it is first and foremost the Syrian people who have suffered, the reputation and legitimacy of the Security Council and the United Nations have been harmed because it simply cannot gather around even taking steps towards peace in Syria. Peace there is a difficult task. Moreover, it is not so brave that those responsible for these terrible crimes can be held to account. This is what I'm after. How is the government doing with its seat on the Security Council to put pressure on permanent members? Does the government sometimes have to put a different amount of pressure, or is it just as much pressure on everyone? There were two questions, and the third is from the interpellation. How will the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden in the future work precisely for us to proceed in accountability for these terrible acts? This applies to chemical weapons attacks, but there are also many other war crimes that have plagued the Syrian people for a long time.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-225	Mr President, I would like to The war in Syria is a disgrace to humanity. It is also one of the greatest shortcomings that can be attributed to the UN Security Council. That is the terrible thing: it undermines confidence in the UN system that one cannot even demand responsibility for chemical attacks. That is why it is incredibly important that we are clear. Of course, we think we have been, but I hear what you're saying, Karin Enström. It is important that we not only talk about this in the form of processes but are very clear about accountability. It is not the same, but our role in the Security Council is always to find a way forward where the Security Council fulfils its task – that it actually comes to decisions and does something. Ideally, unity should be found, so sometimes we really need to speak truth to power, that is to say, make sure that the countries that stand in the way of finding a solution are made clear what we think. One must also try to get the others to unlock blockages and so on in order for us to actually move forward. Sometimes it is also necessary to mobilise the non-permanent members, who are unable to veto, to form a front to bring the others with them. So it is the day-to-day diplomatic work that is going on there. I would say that we think we have been as clear as we can be with the tools we have – with explanations of vote and with the way we speak bilaterally, as in fact politically in my meetings. This also applies to statements we make, from tweets to whatever it is, that we can post and publish publicly. However, I think it is an important point that we must always make an even greater effort to ensure that it becomes clear what we mean by the way forward. Right now it is a national ceasefire, lifting the sieges, providing protection for civilians and ensuring humanitarian access. The kra remain. Promises have been given on at least four occasions – and have been broken equally quickly. However, it is more important than ever. We also support the political process. However, I appreciate this debate, because basically we have the same analysis of the situation and what is necessary to do. It is important that we help as much as possible to enable Sweden to fulfil its role in the Security Council and to be able to speak with a strong voice against them – in this case Russia and China – who have used their veto to prevent the Security Council from being able to be effective in helping those who are ultimately most affected, namely the Syrian civilians.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-231	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I hope that we can conclude this discussion on one of the most burning issues and the most burning conflict at the moment by receiving an assurance from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that neither the Minister for Foreign Affairs nor anyone else representing the Government of the Security Council will refrain from criticising those who are being criticised. You shouldn't use kalesupar theory or the bunting principle. It is important for me to have that confirmation from the Foreign Minister here today.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-232	Mr President, I would like to I hope that there will be unknown principles in the UN work. I don't even know if there's any English translation of the Kale Suppar Theory and the Bunting Principle, and we're gonna make sure there's no one either. On the contrary, this is the forum for actually ensuring that responsibilities are imposed – not least in the case of such serious crimes against humanity as the use of chemical weapons. You should also live up to your promises and not use your veto rights in a way that actually prevents the UN from fully playing the role of the organisation in preventing wars, conflicts and human suffering around the world. Thank you for the debate.
i-8cwGHMy9eC9UyqG6KKxDqj	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel has asked me: Sweden has been supporting the peace and state building process in Somalia for a long time. For continued success in Somalia's development, the government considers national reconciliation to be a crucial factor. To this end, Swedish assistance provides support for several dialogue and mediation efforts in Somalia. This includes, among other things, support for dialogue between the federal government and Somaliland. The Swedish Government considers that recognition of Somaliland as an independent state would not benefit the continued peace process in Somalia. It could also have a negative impact on the development of the region. The government therefore sees no reason to reconsider its position on this issue. It can also be noted that no other country has recognised Somaliland as an independent state. With regard to Markus Wiechels's final question, it can be said that Sweden is providing support for a number of major national donor mutual funds and programmes that also benefit Somaliland. Furthermore, Sweden has supported the democratic development of Somaliland through support for several of the elections held in Somaliland, as well as preparations for the elections that were due to take place in 2015.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-238	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply. For a long time, Sweden has been based on three stated criteria that should be met in order to recognise an independent country: there should be a people, there should be a territory and there should be a government that can exercise control over the territory. Somaliland meets all of these three criteria – and many more than them. At the same time, the government has made it clear that it intends to be a humanitarian example. It defends order and wants to promote democracy, gender equality and other human rights. Here too, I can think that Somaliland is worthy of the fact that the international community, perhaps with Sweden at its head, actually recognises the successes it has made and the independence it de facto already has. Somaliland has free democratic elections and functioning institutions. It offers free schooling for all children and young people. It has its own institutions and diplomatic relations, ministers and parliamentarians, and it has its own President. You have your own currency, your own flag, your own passports, your own national anthem and your own capital. The list can be made much longer. Mr President, I would like to One might ask why I, or for that matter someone else, focus so much on an issue such as this one. However, it is basically a question of morality, and it does not end there. Somaliland has not won its freedom through separatism, violence or in any way by violating international regulations. It was rather the chaos in Somalia that left this very region without government, and then Somaliland's people chose to take the rule into their own hands. Nor is there any historical or demographic anchoring to support the thesis that this should belong to the rest of what we call Somalia today – which, unlike Somaliland, was previously an Italian and not a British colony. Mr President, I would like to Recognition is also important, as the whole world in one way or another actually sticks together. By supporting the Somali people, we are promoting not only development throughout Somalia, which is what the Somalis themselves want, but also development here in Sweden and in Europe. Through recognition, we can develop trade and stability, act directly with the Somali government and show the whole world that peace pays off. It pays to achieve all the successes Somaliland has achieved with democracy and schooling. We can help them to achieve greater success, which can also spread to other parts of the region. Against all odds, Somaliland has created a peaceful democracy of Western teams in one of the world's most violent regions. The fact that Somaliland is also a Muslim functioning democracy is in itself worth thinking about. It should be recognised as an example for many of the countries that are in or have found themselves in a similar situation and fought for more success. Last but not least, in recent years Sweden has recognised states on far more dubious grounds than has now been suggested by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The government's position basically points to inconsistent action that is all the sadder at a time when we have the chance to influence other countries within the United Nations. I do not want to believe that there are other reasons why, for example, Palestine was recognised, but the action unfortunately indicates that this was the case.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-247	Mr President, I would like to It is true that developments in Somaliland have historically been more successful than developments in the rest of Somalia. Somaliland has not been affected by civil war, and the state institutions have therefore not suffered the same collapse as in the southern part of Somalia in particular. In this way, Somaliland has been, and still largely remains, a positive example for the rest of Somalia. There may be both the pros and cons of being part of a major federation. Doing so can have both economic and security benefits. It is hoped that the positive developments in Somalia may eventually also benefit Somaliland's development, but this presupposes that Somaliland is not excluded from the process. Unfortunately, it can also bring with it that there will be battles for boundary drawing and anything else that can come of it. In this context, it is positive that representatives from the main clans in Somaliland took part in the Somali elections and have elected Somaliland representatives to the federal government and to the parliament. We believe on the part of the government that the recognition of Somaliland would not benefit the Somali peace process, and we see no reason to reconsider our position on the matter. I have been asked this question and there has been some interpellation on this subject before. It may be added that Somaliland has not been recognised by any other European State, nor by the African Union or its members. It is, to a large extent, a non-issue that is not really being properly pursued, and that is perhaps where a move towards becoming an independent state is to begin. But right now we think it is important to look at the whole of Somalia and acknowledge the successes of Somaliland, but there is not really such a movement, nor is there any other country that has recognised Somaliland.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-252	Mr President, I would like to Is it really so strange that the African Union, which consists mostly of dictatorships, has not recognised Somaliland and the development they have managed to achieve? Is it really so strange that other countries that have failed to do the same at all do not want to acknowledge this success? Then I can ask myself: What is it that makes the Swedish Government believe that the people of Somaliland cannot decide for themselves whether it is better that they are independent or not? Should we continue with the policies that used to prevail, where other countries would decide over their boundaries? This is a clan-based society. It is a society that consists of many different groups, and now the Somalis have a desire to draw the map of their country themselves. In fact, I do not see how this can hinder the development of peace in this region. Moreover, it is worth mentioning that the Union between Somalia and Somaliland in 1960 was never actually signed by the parliaments of the two countries, which was a prerequisite for the validity of the agreement. In fact, therefore, the Somalis have been deprived of their own country.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-255	Mr President, I would like to What Somalia's federal map will ultimately look like is best decided by the Somalis themselves. Continued success in Somalia's development requires a constructive partnership within and between the different regions of Somalia. After many years of civil war, there are indeed many local conflicts and disputes to be resolved, and they can only be resolved through dialogue and reconciliation. We believe from the Swedish government that Somaliland's claim to self-government is best dealt with in such a process and under Somali leadership.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-257	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Somaliland is about to decide its future, and that's a little what they're trying to do now. They have long served as a country and have de facto independence. They have succeeded in this through dialogue and reconciliation, just as the Foreign Minister wants them to. Even so, they do not receive any support. I don't see what else they can do, because so far they've played right, so to speak. There is no violence, no separatist friction and nothing that goes against what the Foreign Minister really says. In fact, I still do not quite understand why we cannot just give them the right to their own country which is de facto already in control.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-259	Mr President, I would like to We believe that national reconciliation is a crucial factor in continuing to see successful development in Somalia. We know that this is also a priority for the new Secretary-General of the United Nations. Should there now be comments from the outside on how state-building and reconciliation should take place in Somalia, there is a risk that it will actually only make things more difficult. We provide Swedish support for the peace and state-building process one in Somalia. We provide political support and development cooperation, and we are one of the largest donors. We believe that this is the right way forward. Eventually, this may be a question, but it certainly is not today. We do not want to do anything that interferes with the political process that we can see and that is positive in Somalia, but we also have nothing against holding Somaliland's success forward. They can be an important example. But it is not above all to mark state-building in this way that makes the best contribution to the national reconciliation that is needed today. They are needed as a good example.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-261	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Gjörtler has asked the Minister for Coordination and Energy what information from the Commission is the basis for the assessment that it will be possible to maintain the tax exemption for high-congested fuels, what the government intends to do if the whole proposal on reduction is rejected by the Commission and, finally, whether the government has considered presenting a proposal on reduction and a tax exemption. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government has decided on a legislative referral with proposals for tax exemptions for high blended biofuels and a reduction obligation for biofuels in petrol and diesel fuels. As I have previously replied to Jonas Gjörtler, the reduction obligation is not subject to EU state aid rules, which means that it does not need to be approved by the European Commission. The reduction obligation therefore does not affect the Commission's ability to authorise State aid for high-congested biofuels. The Commission's examination concerns the notification submitted by the Government to the Commission, and that examination is therefore not affected by the way the Government divides the proposals. It is therefore not the reduction obligation that is submitted to the European Commission. The Government has assessed in the legislative referral that the Commission will be able to approve the government's state aid notification of the continuation of the tax exemption for highly blended biofuels. The issue of state aid is dealt with in dialogue with the Commission.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-265	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. It is important that we can get the reduction obligation in place. We see this as the single most important tool for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, which is a very large part of the emissions that we in Sweden are responsible for in terms of greenhouse gases. The reduction obligation is a good tool, in that the focus is on reducing greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the involvement of biofuels. The focus is therefore not on reducing transport as such. Transport meets important needs. In a large and sparsely populated country such as Sweden, which is also located on the outskirts of Europe, it is important that we can safeguard the ability to transport. We should not tax or impose higher costs on distances as such. The duty of reduction is therefore a good tool. And it is positive that the government has produced this proposal. In principle, the proposal is a good one. That is the right way to proceed. But a few things give rise to question marks. It is as soon as possible in order to ensure that these questions are put into place. I hope the Minister of Finance will see the issues in that light. The issue concerns the design and what is perceived as some ambiguities that could jeopardise the introduction of the reduction obligation. It could also jeopardise the long-term perspective and even be poor in terms of climate benefits. This applies to the derogation for the highly mixed biofuels. Several of those who have submitted referrals highlight the question marks and comments on the specific exemption with regard to high-congested fuels. For example, the National Board of Trade, the State Authority, says: 中 A fuel that is petrol or diesel fuel that is more than 98% produced from biomass is not covered by the reduction obligation scheme, and they believe that when an exemption is made it is State aid. The college believes that we need to look at the two things together, that we need to analyse them together. The college's assessment is therefore that there is a risk that this may become a problem and that it is notifiable. The National Board of Trade is a body that highlights this. But there are more. There are quite a few people who bring it up. The State Road and Transport Research Institute, VTI, also raises the question and questions why the high-concentrated fuels are not included in the proposal on reduction obligation because the point is a little bit to reduce emissions. Then it does not matter whether the fuels are present in a highly concentrated form, i.e. high-concentrated biofuels, or whether they are used as low-concentrated fuels. The same volume that is inserted as low-infused results in the same climate reduction. If you make that exception, you risk having problems. If the Commission does not accept this – if they consider it unacceptable – then we risk that this system might not be introduced at all. That is the background to my question. How sure is the government that this will actually be approved? If there is a problem, what does the government intend to do?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-273	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Jonas Gjörtler also thinks it is a good thing that we can finally introduce a reduction obligation. When Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's party ruled at the Ministry of Finance, a system was developed which then proved not to be approved by the EU, and it had to be withdrawn. The starting point for our work has been precisely to find a system that does not need to be approved by the European Union. Our assessment is that we have done so with the proposal that has been put forward. That is why we have not sent it in for state aid approval either. As far as biofuels are concerned, however, we already have state aid approval in order to have a tax exemption for biofuels. The last decision we received from the Commission dates from 2015. Our assessment is that these conditions have not changed since 2015. We should therefore be well placed to have the state aid approval for tax exemptions extended on those parts. This means that from next year we will be able to have a system where we have both a reduction obligation and a tax exemption for biofuels. The producers in Sweden with whom I have had contact mean that this provides good conditions for investing in biofuels, which in the future will be part of our becoming a fossil-free welfare society. Electrification is of course important. But biofuels are also important.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-278	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance. Long-term demand has been made for a long time. I agree with that assessment. I have read what the referral bodies have written, and they ask for a long-term perspective. There are some points about the long-term – if we are to be honest, the Minister for Finance. Decisions that go beyond 2020. It states that it will apply until 2030. But I think the industry is a little worried that this is not sharp enough. The major concern is, in fact, whether or not the European Union will accept this. The tax exemption currently in force until 2018. After that, a new exception should be made. There is a risk that there will be a problem here. We should look at the two issues taken together. If you have a tax exemption and at the same time a reduction obligation, you have dual instruments. There is one more problem that it may be interesting to highlight and which has been highlighted by VTI, the State Road and Transport Research Institute that I mentioned earlier. It is important that, on the basis of the proposal that exists, account is not taken of the climate-efficient nature of high-concentrated biofuels in a life-cycle perspective such as those of low-concentrated biofuels. This means that the climate benefit actually becomes more uncertain. It does not have the same requirements for the highly involved in practice. That is another reason, but in this particular discussion it is perhaps a bit of a side argument. I would like to hear the Minister for Finance's comment on the assessment of the National Board of Trade. How does the Minister of Finance view this? The government makes the assessment that there should not be a problem but that it will be possible to get in place. Others evidently make a different assessment and are concerned about this. This also applies to the industries. For example, SPBI also highlights concerns about this. What information from the Commission does the government have as a basis for the assessment that this will be possible to get through? I asked three questions in the interpellation. I think I have received answers to the third question but not to the first two. What information from the Commission is the basis for the government's assessment? And what does the Government intend to do if the proposal were rejected by the Commission? Then perhaps I mean not only in the parts that the government has notified and sent in. This could be the way to backtrack the whole thing because it is considered a breach of state aid rules. We could find ourselves in a rather sad situation where the proposal for a reduction obligation falls, in fact because of a small detail which says that the high fuel mix should have the exception and where the climate benefit is non-existent. It will be the same climate benefit if the propellant is used as low-mixed fuel. Climate benefits may even be worse with the high-concentrated biofuels, as they are not subject to the same life cycle analysis compared to the proposal for a reduction obligation. So the risks are very great. I think the government is playing a little loud here. I hear the Minister of Finance says it's an assessment you make. However, I believe that those concerned would like a little clearer information. What is behind the government's assessment? How can the Minister of Finance be so sure that there will be no problem and that it will come into place?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-287	Mr President, I would like to We always operate under uncertainty when it comes to state aid rules. Not least did the Moderates notice that when they were in charge of the Ministry of Finance and completely failed the proposal they made. So we do that all the time, regardless of the color of the government. Based on that uncertainty, assessments are made. The experts of the Government Office have made the assessment that the reduction obligation, as it is designed now, does not need to be approved and therefore does not constitute aid. As regards the high fuel mix, the assessment is that the conditions of the previous state aid approval have not changed. That is why we should get state aid approval again. Here, of course, we have under-relations with the Commission. But the Commission makes decisions when making decisions. The assessment is that it should be possible to do so in good time before the Riksdag decides on the budget. Based on the contacts we have and on the fact that the situation has not changed since 2015, when we received the previous state aid approval, our assessment is that we should get it again. My question to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler is really: Is it something that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler would have done differently if he had been at the Ministry of Finance today?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-292	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance. As far as the last point is concerned, I do not know exactly all the information on which the Minister for Finance and the Ministry of Finance are based. That is why the question is being asked, so that I can get a little more clarity. So I cannot say exactly what I would have done differently. But the question I raise concerns the high fuel mix. I think there is reason to consider whether this derogation should really be granted, given the risks highlighted by the consultation bodies. It's not about any consultation body. The National Board of Commerce and VTI, for example, are government agencies that highlight this. The climate benefit is zero and can even be negative if you have this exception. The reasons for maintaining the tax exemption for the high fuel mix do not seem so strong, if I put it that way. I understand that one might want to avoid this out of concern for some of the types of traffic that are currently running high. Nevertheless, we must put this into perspective with regard to the climate benefits that we want to achieve with the entire reduction obligation and with regard to the risks that are taken if we jeopardise the implementation of this. When the Minister of Finance says that the conditions for the derogation have not changed, that is the point here: perhaps that is exactly what they have. If the reduction obligation were to be notified to the Commission – it is true that the government has not done so – and there is a case of this and a different assessment is made, and it is noted that the conditions have changed because someone wants a tax exemption and a quota obligation in parallel, i.e. a dual instrument, we risk having problems. The conditions have changed, and the system may not be feasible. I think it would be unfortunate, and that is why I am curious as to how the Minister for Finance can be so sure that this is moving in the right direction.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-297	Mr President, I would like to No, you cannot be sure if you do not make the decisions yourself, and these decisions are taken in Brussels. However, as I said, this is the assessment we make on the basis of the information we have. However, I do not share Jonas Gjörtler's view that we could ignore tax exemptions for high-congested fuels. There are big points to this. Often they are at the forefront of development. To have an extra stimulus there, I think is well-motivated. It is also something that can drive the development and make Sweden at the forefront, which in the long run can provide jobs and growth throughout the country and also provide possible new export revenues for Sweden. In general, I think that Sweden should be able to work very actively to provide good conditions for the really new technology so that we can be at the forefront. It is one way to secure our long-term prosperity, but it is also beneficial to the climate on earth.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-300	Mr President, I would like to Caroline Szyber has asked me whether I see a serious risk in reducing the incentives for the construction of rental apartments and what measures I intend to take to mitigate this. The question is raised in the light of two proposals submitted in the field of taxation. These include the Ministry of Finance's memorandum New tax rules for the corporate sector and the so-called Package Report (SOU 2017:27). According to the memorandum consulted, a general limitation of interest deductions in the corporate sector is to be introduced. One of the aims of the proposal is to increase fiscal neutrality between different forms of financing. The proposal implements the EU Directive against tax evasion and is in line with the OECD recommendations in this area. As the limitation of interest rebates strengthens the tax rules, companies are proposed to be compensated by reducing the corporate tax rate from 22 % to 20 %. In the case of residential building, the same memorandum also proposes a primary deduction for apartment buildings. The primary deduction allows for greater depreciation for depreciation during the first five years from the completion of an apartment building. The proposal provides a tax incentive for new production of rental buildings. The proposal of the packaging inquiry means that the tax effect will be the same regardless of whether a property is disposed of directly or indirectly through so-called packaging in a company. The government is working intensively with measures to improve the functioning of the housing market. The government is currently implementing the largest housing policy initiative in 20 years. As part of this, a housing policy initiative was presented in 2016 with proposals for 22 measures for more housing. The government's measures and efforts to build more homes have produced results. A combination of an active government, responsible municipalities, a construction sector that is making an effort and a positive economic cycle have made it possible to increase construction around the country. In 2016, construction of the highest number of apartments started since 1990, and since 2012, the number of dwellings started has tripled. Once the consultation period for the current proposals has expired, the proposals will be prepared in the Ministry of Finance. I do not want to anticipate that preparation.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. However, I feel that the answer leaves out some of the reality. Sweden faces major challenges in the housing market. The scale of the challenges is evident when 255 of Sweden's 290 municipalities report a housing shortage. The needs are so great that, according to Boverket, 88 000 homes need to be built by 2020. But despite record housing construction, we are nowhere near that production. In this crisis, there is no need for more laws that make it more difficult. Nevertheless, we can see that several obstacles are being raised with, among other things, the proposals of the Packaging Investigation. The investigation has established that the real estate industry is not fiscally advantageous. It says that the total amount of taxes levied by the real estate industry is on the same level as for other parts of the business sector. The investigator also states that the proposal would affect housing construction. Nevertheless, new legislation is proposed to discourage packaged transactions. The real estate industry also warns that the investigation's proposals have significant negative effects on the interest in new production and renovation of rental apartments. As the proposal will most likely lead to a decline in property values, capital inflows to the real estate market will also decrease. This leads to a downward spiral in terms of fewer efforts to renovate existing stocks and reduced willingness to risk taking in new production. In addition to increasing the cost of housing construction, the proposals also threaten the financial stability of society. It will be far less profitable to sell properties with the investigation's proposal, which is likely to drastically reduce the transaction volume of rental properties. This follows a new type of lock-in on the housing market. When nobody sells and buys rental properties, we get a stagnation both in new production and in renovation, because there is no capital for investments. Without new housing, mobility in the housing market is further reduced. Already today we have significant matching problems in the labour market that can be directly attributed to the housing market, with a subsequent labour shortage that de facto dampen growth in Sweden. The investigation's proposals ensure a worsening of the situation. In addition, there is not only a shortage of housing but also of premises, student housing and retirement homes. The construction of these are also hindered. Are more subsidies the solution too? We have tax increases on the one hand and subsidies on the other. You give with one hand and bring the other. These are subsidies which, moreover, strain an already overheated market. The construction is record high today, but it is mostly about expensive apartments and homes at berth. And I hear so many people saying that they will pull the emergency brake when it comes to construction rather than pressing the accelerator if there are additional charges. It's something I think you should be sensitive to.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-314	Mr President, I would like to Having listened to Caroline Szyber, I think it is important to point out that it is an investigation proposal that she is critical of. This is not something the government has put forward, but this proposal is on the table. Once the government has received the referral, it will of course analyse both the investigation and these answers. Then the government will take a stand. So this is not something the government has yet taken a position on. However, I share Caroline Szyber's view that a lot of housing needs to be built. The Alliance government left behind a housing market that did not work. Above all, it had been built far too little during the eight years. Now, however, we see that it is taking off. If the same number of dwellings is started for the rest of the year as during the first two quarters, 78,200 dwellings will have been started in Sweden this year. It's amazing. This is where the government has been working. Caroline Szyber says it is important that there are no new charges. On the contrary, the government has worked to support increased construction, both with a special bonus for municipalities that ensure that it is built and with support for companies that build rental apartments. The assessment is now that 10 000 rental rights will be opened thanks to the government's investment aid. I do not think that the companies need more burden, nor in the form of the alliance parties withdrawing investment aid, which has made obvious use of it.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-318	Mr President, I would like to The focus of the Minister's interpellation response and her recent contributions has been on the Packaging investigation, but as the headline of my interpellation shows, it is a broader perspective I wish, namely the impact of fiscal policy on the housing market. This applies to the industry that we are talking about today, but it should also be mentioned that households have received more charges. We have a debt-to-GDP ratio that we should take seriously, but many households as well as the industry still feel a lack of long-term sustainability. For households there are mortgage caps, debt-to-GDP ceilings, amortisation requirements and tougher KALP calculations. They are all individually very important measures, but it should be said that they target and primarily affect the younger ones, while the older ones are in unruly nests. What is asked of both households and the industry is a coordination. No business can handle any number of smocks. We already decided in 2003 on a system similar to that of the world around us. The question then is what is the logic of lifting an industry in terms of taxation. Many also say that the proposal sends out wrong and very strong signals: Do not invest in this industry! If construction stagnates sharply, it also leads to fewer jobs, which in turn leads to less tax revenue. My question to the Minister for Finance then remains: Is this a good deal for the state? The government says that its policy has had an effect. Nevertheless, I think it might be a bit of a comfort to point out that it is the economic cycle, and not really the government's policy, that makes it build at these levels. Now that we have the opportunity to talk, I would like to take this opportunity to say that I thought the housing talks had a good approach. There was a focus on both regulatory simplification and financial issues. Both housing policy spokespersons and fiscal spokespersons were invited. That approach must continue. A holistic approach is needed. I also think there needs to be a clear social and economic analysis. Everyone is asking for a long-term perspective, but I still think it is lacking in government policy. It is when the economic cycle folds that construction will also do so. No matter how much the government tries to demonstrate that its policy has had an effect by mentioning this in time and without time and sending out press releases, it is then, when the economic cycle folds, that the government's policy will be tested, and it is then that one must have a policy that makes one press the accelerator rather than pull the emergency brake. I would like to sum up some of what lies ahead. While strong restrictions on the possibility of interest rebates are presented by the government, the proposal for increased tax on real estate companies is on the table. The effect of two proposals that significantly increase the taxation of real estate companies is that investments in both new production of housing and premises as well as renovations will decrease when it becomes more expensive to borrow and more difficult to sell properties to finance new investments. Fewer calculations will go together when financial costs rise. The real estate sector is often described as an undertaxed part of the economy. It is a myth that can now be put to death. A survey carried out by the Packaging Investigation concludes that the real estate industry pays tax to the same extent as other industries and risks being overestimated if the Package Investigation proposal is implemented. With the proposals for strong interest reduction limits, the impact will be even greater. Where, then, is the long-term perspective? What is the policy of continuing to press the accelerator?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-329	Mr President, I would like to Now, again, it sounds to Caroline Szyber that these proposals are something that the government has already decided and is about to implement. However, this is not the case; it is proposals that are now being referred. It is extremely important for the government to listen to the consultation bodies. It is an important process that we have in Sweden that anyone who wants to have the opportunity to submit comments on various proposals. Then the government will take a stand. When we take a stand, of course, the effects of the proposals on different parts of the business community will be something that the government weighs in. So far, this government seems to have conducted a policy that has not really had the effects on Swedish business that it has sometimes sounded like when you have stood and debated here in the pulpit. Representatives of various alliance parties often say that government policy is very bad for business, but at the same time we are seeing how it is flourishing with high growth and many new employees – 100 000 more employed in business than when we came to power. I share Caroline Szyber's view that the housing policy talks were very valuable and good. I also thought the combination of housing policy and economic policy spokespersons in the same room was good; it gave an opportunity to talk about these issues broadly. I also appreciate the effort that Caroline Szyber herself made in those talks. On the other hand, I found it sad that the alliance parties chose to leave the talks instead of ending them. All you have to do is regret it. Now it was still a good outcome. Much of what we discussed in that room was included in the 22-point programme that the government is now working on. Even if you chose to drop out, it still has become a good thing. But I'm sorry you chose to drop out. I think it would have been better, not least for business, if we had been able to reach a broad and long-term agreement. That's not what happened. It was your choice.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-332	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the opportunity to debate today. I'm a person trying to take a positive view of things. From the answers given by the Minister for Finance, I conclude that she does not want to go ahead with the consultation round. I can only hope that she will then listen to the criticism of referrals that has already emerged today and that before it goes further, the government will make a clearer analysis of what interest reduction restrictions and the proposal of the Packaging Investigation would mean for housing construction. We need to be long-term for the sake of all people – for those who want to live, for those who live, for those who own and manage houses, for those who are going to renovate and for those who are going to build. It is important to be sensitive. With this, I thank the Minister for a good debate.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-335	Mr President, I would like to Housing construction is important. Having a safe home where you know that you can have your home is one of the most important things in life for a lot of people. It is therefore gratifying that housing construction is now at record levels and that it is built not only residential and small houses but also many rental apartments, so that more young people have the opportunity to get that wonderful feeling of putting the key in their first home. I am also pleased to debate these issues with Caroline Szyber, who I know is working enthusiastically on housing issues. It is important that many politicians do so.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-337	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me how I and the government intend to guarantee people the possibility of having access to and the possibility of using cash to deal with everyday matters in the future. I share Mr Rothenberg's views on the challenges posed by the rapidly declining use of cash and cash management in Sweden, particularly for those who do not have access to, or who have difficulties in using, electronic payment services such as credit cards or internet banking. As part of this societal challenge, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, together with the County Administrative Board of Dalarna, the Swedish Agency for Growth and Growth Analysis, has been tasked with supporting the county administrative boards in their efforts to design and implement various measures to meet the need for basic payment services in the localities and in the sparsely populated areas where this is not met by the market. Since 2012, the county administrative boards have been working with regionally adapted solutions, including payment service agents. State aid to these payment service providers is managed by the county administrative boards. Today, there are about 30 state-funded payment service providers where it is possible to pay bills, withdraw money and leave day funds. The county administrative boards also work closely with Sparbankernas Riksförbund and the Swedish Bank Association on these issues. In this context, I would also like to mention the banks' letter-based giro services – the giro payment – and the telephone bank, where you can carry out your banking business by telephone. It is a good option for many older people who lack or find it difficult to use internet banking. In addition to these measures, I have ongoing discussions with the banking sector on its responsibility for a functioning cash and payment system throughout the country. As regards the issue of the possibility of cash payments, the legislation says that cash is legal tender. The main rule is therefore that cash should be accepted upon payment. However, shops and restaurants with several private operators have the possibility to cancel this rule. Companies are therefore in principle not obliged to accept cash at all or certain coins or notes. However, companies should inform about this in a clear way so that customers can choose whether to accept such a condition or to go elsewhere. In this context, however, I would like to mention that the courts have concluded that the legal relationship between a county council as a health care provider and a care provider is not such that the possibility of paying the care fee with cash can be agreed off. In other words, these care providers are obliged to receive cash. Finally, on access to cash, I would also like to mention the Parliamentary Committee on the Riksbank. Among other things, it has the task of considering how the Riksbank's responsibility for well-functioning cash management throughout the country can be clarified by law, and the Riksbank's role and responsibility for the cash supply throughout the country and its costs. It is important that such a review is carried out, and I look forward with confidence to the Committee submitting its report to the Government in May 2019. I and the government continue to monitor these issues.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-346	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, it is the case that cash is being used less and less as an everyday means of payment in favour of electronic transactions. We all notice that on a daily basis – it is almost obscure that you reach out a bill and want some change in change. From a security perspective, this can be both good and bad. On the other hand, as the risk of cash robbery decreases, digital attacks on digital money systems increase. For many people, not having access to or the ability to use internet-based transfers means a severe restriction in everyday life. For many people there are more negative than positive effects of the withdrawal of the cash society. For these, it is important to have access to and feel secure with the increasing digitalisation of the everyday economy. To be able to have money on your pocket and know that they can be used is too many important quality of life. At the same time, we see today that there are shops and restaurants that no longer accept cash as payment. This means that a life without a computer or a smartphone makes the basic payments and tasks of everyday life more complicated. Society is also becoming increasingly vulnerable if the digital payment system were to be knocked out as a result of accidents or deliberate sabotage. You may remember that in the 1990s there was a bank strike in Sweden. Then people ran and took out as much cash as they could in the cashiers, because back then – this was a long time ago – the banks actually handled money. The ATMs were emptied, and eventually there was no cash left. But this was also a time before the digital transfer systems were in place. Then there was no alternative. Today, the reverse world is: when you no longer have access to electronic moving money, cash is the lifeline. The consequences in everyday life, Mr President, are too great when society has got used to cash management. To have technical means to pay and do the right thing must be seen today as a necessity. When banks no longer want to handle cash but leave it to customers to manage operational management through phones, boxes and computers, it becomes more difficult for us as consumers to pay with notes and coins. Of course, electronic means of payment have many advantages. However, cashless society becomes very vulnerable to external interference such as when major storms like Hurricane Harvey in the United States, computer viruses or cyber attacks knock out the power and internet. On several occasions, power outages and failures of system operators have caused tens of thousands of card terminals throughout Sweden to have been down for several hours. As I said, I thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation, but it also raises more questions. The Minister takes as an example the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and its efforts in rural areas. But this is not just a rural problem. It is more the case that in the cities it is even harder to deal with this. It is everyday payments that matter to many people.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-357	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for an important debate. This is an issue that engages many people, and rightly so. It is clear that the ability and the ability to make payments in the way that suits the individual is something that engages. We have a great deal of sympathy for this on the part of the government. Our view is that the individual should be able to decide in what way and by what methods you want to manage your personal finances. That is the goal we are working towards. However, I would like to nuance the image that Mr Rothenberg gives: that digitalisation of the economy is largely negative. I know there are many people who think that it greatly simplifies everyday life. Compared to what it was like a few decades ago, when you had to be at the bank before three o'clock in order to handle your banking business, many think that it is a step forward that actually increases the quality of life that today you can manage internet payments in the middle of the night if you like. You can handle all banking matters from home and have quite a lot of freedom in handling them in a way that suits you. That is something that I think many are experiencing as a step forward. Of course, we should respect the fact that there are also people who do not feel comfortable using these tools. We need to find ways to make it possible for that group of people to manage their finances in a way that suits them. Digitalisation also brings with it completely new opportunities and completely new solutions which I believe will bring about major changes in the financial and economic markets. Now we are seeing the emergence of a new industry of technology companies – it is usually called fintech – which uses digital solutions to give us as customers completely new opportunities to get a good overview of the financial market and attractive offers. The customer can select the person who can offer, for example, the lowest mortgage costs or the best bank interest rates if you want to save. This is a development that opens up many opportunities, and I think it is important that we do not forget about this. But there is a group of people who have challenges in using the new technologies. We simply need to find solutions there. In the case of measures across the country, the county administrative boards have a mandate and there is funding to open up payment service agents in those places and parts of the country where market forces are not able to cope with supply on their own. We are actively working on expanding broadband and mobile data networks throughout the country to ensure that the basic technical infrastructure is in place so that you can switch to digital solutions. It is not working today throughout the country, and we must have great respect for that. We also need to discuss the long-term conditions, because there is very little evidence that digitalisation would stop. Most of it points to the fact that it will continue, and this means that we need to have a fundamental discussion in Parliament and with the parliamentary parties on how to deal with the issue in the future. Therefore, I think it is appropriate for the Riksbank Committee, where all parties are represented, to have the time and opportunity to drill itself into and get answers to the many questions that exist and to try to find a solution to, for example, legislation. It is an assignment that lies on the Riksbank Committee. It is easy to say that legislation should solve everything. It is harder to find the wise design. Should we, for example, force all banks in Sweden, including those on the Internet, to open offices? If so, where are those offices to be located? I do not know if Mr Rothenberg has a suggestion as to what that solution would look like. I think there is something that needs some thought. Personally, I do not think that it is a wise way to force operators to use certain forms, any more than I think it is wise to force commercial operators, for example, to open offices in certain places or to decide where, when and how they will perform their services. I believe in the free market as a basis for society and for our economic transactions. I do not think that such legislation would be right, nor do I think it is the solution to the problems we are seeing today. However, I believe that we need to continue working on these issues, and this is best done within the Riksbank Committee.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-369	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in many ways a pioneer country, where you are happy to catch up with new trends and techniques; that has been the case. We can all remember what happened after the TV show showing the Chainsaw Massacre. This was the early 80s. Suddenly the Swedish video wave bloomed, and the vhs players were sold more in Sweden than in any other country in the world. Swedes are curious. Sweden is technologically advanced, and it is a good market to test new behavioral patterns, products and services on. But with changing behavior patterns, both good and bad follow. Where the technology facilitates at one end, it can at the same time make it more difficult in the other. For security reasons, society has increasingly left cash management in favour of electronic transactions. The top pages are many, while the drawbacks are evident when the systems are disabled. I would like to take a daily example: to refuel the car. Per Bolund is an environmentalist– I know that car is not what you think is the coolest thing to talk about. I've never owned a car myself, but I've still refueled when I've rented one from time to time. Because of the risk of hit-and-run, it is understandable that the station owner wants to be paid in advance. But once the card is drawn and it turns out that the petrol pump does not work, it is suddenly impossible to get the money paid back immediately. They are then frozen for at least three business days, and with an intermediate weekend it will be up to five days. A full tank can be equivalent to SEK 800 - 900. At the end of the month, it's a lot of money for a lot of people. In this context, the payer has done nothing wrong. There are so far neither technical guarantees nor the possibility of immediate regulation via insurance. Access to cash is also a democratic issue. The starting point must be to be able to own and use money without expenses, as is the case with cash. If you choose to pay with technical means, such as debit cards and internet services, it can also be reasonable that it costs something extra. In addition, the investment is also made in a computer or a smartphone. There are many people who prefer to use cash for several reasons. We can mention older ones who want to control their money by actually being able to physically hold it in their hands. For them, digital money is scary rather than safe. For a gambling addict, the practical availability of fast, digital transactions can be as devastating as it is for an alcoholic to have a refrigerator full of beer. Many gambling addicts try to avoid digital means of payment so as not to be tempted to fast play. For these and other people, cash means both security and freedom, which makes every day easier to handle. If Sweden takes the step fully and accepts the cashless society, the risks and problems must first be addressed. Until these are resolved, it should be the duty of the state to safeguard and maintain the possibilities for cash use in society. It must continue to be possible for people to handle everyday payments with cash. These may be refused only in exceptional circumstances. Mr President, I would like to The Minister mentioned the Parliamentary Committee of the Riksbank. I know that when a committee is working and has an investigation in progress, it's usually so that you've suddenly put the lid on it. But I would still like to draw an opinion. What is the financial market minister Per Bolund's own will when it comes to what it will look like in the future? What does he want the committee to decide?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-379	Mr President, I would like to The last question is simple to answer – I gave the answer already in my first speech. I want people to be able to decide for themselves how they want to manage their personal finances. If you want to run it digitally, I think there should be an opportunity to do so. If you want to run it with cash, I think there should be an opportunity to do it. At the same time, I think that we have a task to try to help people to use effective and simple means of payment that make everyday life easier. In some cases, these are purely knowledge and information issues. I believe that both state actors and private players such as the banks can make a contribution there. I also know that there is a great deal of information and that pensioners' organisations are also working hard to help their members use new technical solutions. Hans Rothenberg is talking about cars. I own a car. It is only refuelled with biofuels throughout its lifetime. But I must say that I am pleased that it is possible to refuel the car with cards instead of having to find a gas station that is open and receives cash. It allows me to refuel my car around the clock, around the country. If, instead, we had demanded that cash be paid at the gas station, we would have had considerably fewer sandwiches around our country. I think we should both be happy that this opportunity exists. When Hans Rothenberg compares with alcohol and says that there are people who find it difficult to handle digital money, I start to think about what his solution is. Should we have a similar cash system company? Should the state take over the entire responsibility for money brokering in our society? That would be a very far-reaching step for me. If it is Hans Rothenberg's and the Moderate's proposals, I am somewhat surprised, but we can at least discuss the issue. I see it as having a banking system which is still in place to deal with the needs of customers, that is, the citizens, to be able to manage their finances. It must be the foundation that this is still a private market where it is market forces that are supposed to fundamentally solve the challenges that exist. On the other hand, the State has a responsibility when market forces are unable to do this, i.e. when there is too little evidence, for example in rural areas or in suburbs around the big cities. Then we have to try to find solutions, and so do we – not only by parking this in an investigation, as Mr Rothenberg says, but, on the contrary, by going in here and now with efforts and having support systems that make us now have some sixty paying agents around the country, where you can deposit your money, deposit funds as a company and withdraw cash. It is easy to point out that one should have legislation and demand that everyone should receive cash everywhere. I gave the example of sandwiches – if we make this demand, I think it would cause us to have a sandwich death all over the country. We would have far fewer opportunities to refuel our cars. I think the same applies to the banking sector. If, in a legislation that was not well thought out here and now, we decided that everyone everywhere should receive cash, I think the number of bank accounts would decrease at a significantly higher rate than we see today. We can also look at nearby examples. Norway is a country that is usually highlighted in the debate. There you have legislation, a framework law you can call it, which says that cash should be able to be received everywhere. Yet we are also seeing a trend in Norway towards more cashless bank accounts, so their legislation has obviously not solved the problem so that you have cash in every office throughout Norway. I have respect for the challenges people currently face in their daily lives when it comes to making payments and being able to use cash. I have met many and understand very well that this is a challenge. But I believe that both Mr Rothenberg and I have a responsibility to ensure that the legislation that can come forward is well founded and actually works when it is established.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-389	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure the Minister for the Financial Market: the Moderates do not want to make it coercion or deal with the petrol trade in the same way that alcohol policy is dealing with that trade today. Then we can put it behind us. What I want to highlight with this interpellation to the Minister for Finance is precisely the problem when a system does not work. I'm the first one to say, "Take advantage of the technology." Both systems are needed. As a complement to cash, electronic payment systems became something that added quality, speeded up and made financial management much safer for people, shops and traders. At the same time, it is when the balance is no longer maintained that the problems arise. I took the example when there is an error and the individual paying may have to wait up to a week. When you have made a mistransaction with your box when you pay the bills around the 25th of each month and it turns out that you paid 13 000 kroner twice it takes up to ten days to get that money back. That is the problem. This is what I want the Minister for Finance and the Government to think about: How do you deal with it when digital is disabled? How do you increase the possibility of adjusting refunds? Of course, as a consumer, you should be able to choose for yourself. But in many contexts we see that cash is now a second-class means of payment. It was once called that,, cash is king,. My last question to the Minister is: how long will that be?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-393	Mr President, I would like to Nowadays, the expression is often heard in criminal circles. Unfortunately, we know that a large cash handling operation opens the door to a large black sector. Unfortunately, cash is used to a large extent in illegal situations. We see that a shift to digital solutions makes crime more difficult. This applies both to violent crime, which Mr Rothenberg himself mentions – with cash in his pocket, there is a much greater risk of having a violent crime than to using an internet bank – and financial crime, which we know is highly dependent on cash. I think we should be happy to move on to a situation where there are more options than just cash. It's not good if there is a division of the throne between several different solutions. It is easy to point out errors made in the digital economy. It's happening. However, we should remember that there have also been errors in the cash economy. There have been wrong payments, and it has sometimes been difficult to get money back, especially in contexts where receipts have not been used or, for that matter, taxes paid. With a transition to more digital solutions, we also have a greater opportunity to follow the digital tracks and see if everything has been done correctly and also be able to get money back afterwards, even if it may take a few days. I think this has been an important debate. I think it is a good thing that this issue is being raised. It's a challenge for a lot of people. As usual in these debates, there are more questions than answers. It seems that, like previous interpelliers, the interpellier does not have any concrete solutions to the challenges. I respect that, because I see how difficult these questions are. That is precisely why I think it is good if we allow it to take time and handle it in the Riksbank investigation.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-398	Mr President, I would like to Roger Hedlund has asked me whether I intend to review the problems arising from municipalities buying residences. The question is raised in the light of the fact that in Boverket's annual housing market survey, more and more municipalities are choosing to buy housing rights for newly arrived residents. Initially, I would like to say that the municipalities have, by law, a responsibility for planning the housing supply. The purpose of the planning is to create the conditions for everyone in the municipality to live in good housing and to promote the preparation and implementation of appropriate measures for the housing supply. What tools are used and deemed to be most appropriate is a municipal matter. The reception of new arrivals is a joint commitment for society as a whole, and the Government's focus is to support the municipalities in their work and the challenges they face. This applies, in particular, to the issue of housing supply. The Government has therefore, among other things, introduced a so-called building bonus to the municipalities and contributed funds to municipalities that want to develop their activities to facilitate the rental of private homes to new arrivals. The Government has also simplified the regulations on fixed-term building permits for housing, and the county administrative boards have a mission to support municipalities and other relevant actors in facilitating entry into the housing market. There are many municipalities that do a good job of receiving new arrivals and planning for the housing supply while the situation in several places is strained. It is becoming more and more common for municipalities to have their own houses and flats, although they still represent a small share of the market. However, as I mentioned at the outset, the decision on which tools are used and deemed to be most appropriate is a municipal matter. In order to get a better picture of how municipalities, based on the demand and housing needs of groups with a weak position in the housing market, are working on housing supply issues, the government decided in July on an additional directive to the Report on Municipal Planning for Housing. The investigator will, among other things, map how municipalities use different tools in their work on housing supply and highlight the balances that municipalities make when deciding on measures. The investigator shall also analyse whether there is a need for guidance or additional municipal tools in order to facilitate the work on housing supply issues and make the suggestions that the analysis gives rise to. The assignment will be reported by 30 April 2018, and I do not see any reason at present to anticipate the investigator's conclusions.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-403	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for the answer to my interpellation! The background is above all the high proportion of asylum seekers – we saw a peak in 2015 – which has involved a number of granted residence permits and has been part of the housing crisis we are seeing in Sweden today. The Instructions Act, introduced by the Government on 1 March 2016, has meant that municipalities have a responsibility to receive a certain number of refugees regardless of whether they have housing or not. This has led to a wide range of consequences for municipalities. For society as a whole, we saw a system collapse when the high number of refugees applied to Sweden in 2015. After that, we have seen a number of structural changes from the government. Among other things, temporary and fixed-term building permits have been introduced, where exceptions to the planning and construction laws have been made for the public to influence their environment through appeals and the like. This has also led to less long-term community planning for municipalities, and we risk seeing more exclusion areas and more. But my interpellation is about the municipalities making housing purchases in order to offer accommodation to the refugees that the government has imposed on them. In its latest housing market survey, Boverket has seen that there has been a doubling from the previous year from 23 to 52 municipalities making these housing purchases. This means that we get a different picture of how this affects society. In previous years, it has not been as large a proportion of municipalities that have purchased housing. This has a market impact on house prices. This also means that very many municipalities spend a lot of millions of SEK on buying these homes. It also affects the right-of-occupancy associations' ability to influence who will live there, who will have the opportunity to rent out in second place and the like. It also affects the ability of associations to carry out their own activities. A right-of-occupancy association has a responsibility for its property and the costs it incurs. Then, as a tenant-owner, you are often involved in the association's activities to keep costs down and the like. This will of course be difficult when it is a municipality that owns one or more of the apartments in the housing association. Against this background, I have asked the Minister whether he intends to review the problems arising from municipalities buying housing rights. The Minister replies that an investigation has been set up that will look at this, among other things. I would like to know exactly what the investigation will deal with in relation to the problems that arise from municipalities making home purchases. I would like to know whether the Minister has ensured that the investigation will actually look at these problems and possibly come up with solutions to them.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-410	Mr President, I would like to Let me start right away with the question raised by Roger Hedlund at the end. The investigator shall analyse whether there is a need for guidance or complementary municipal tools in order to facilitate the work on housing supply issues and make proposals in this area. It is in this context that the investigator touches on what we are now discussing. I myself, of course, think that the most important solution needed to deal with these issues is to build new housing. We have a housing shortage – we have had it for a long time. Former governments and municipalities have not been able to build at the pace required by population growth. As a result, we have built up a great need and a great shortcoming. This was already the case before 2015, when we received a huge wave of new arrivals from other countries. Of course, however, it helped to make the housing shortage even more acute. This is also the background to the fact that, in this situation, the government has made quite considerable efforts to encourage municipalities to assume their housing responsibilities. It is still in the municipalities that it is basically. We can do a lot of things. We can change legislation. We can give the municipalities more incentives to act, and we have done so, for example, through the municipal bonus that I talked about earlier, but also through investment aid, which we have introduced. We now see that there are construction cranes in almost all the cities in Sweden, and we are building at a rate that has not been seen since the days of the million-dollar programme. This means that approximately 75 000 new dwellings will be built this year. It can be compared with the number of flats purchased by municipalities. It is a very small proportion of the new building that is used to manage the social housing obligations that municipalities have. I also think that it should be remembered that it is not only newly arrived that municipalities have housing requirements against. This applies, of course, to all those who move to a municipality and those who already live there. The housing supply requirements of municipalities apply to the entire population of a municipality. This is not something special for a particular category. Rental housing, villas or flats are used to deal with problems, social problems, and housing needs that the market has not managed to solve. This applies to considerably more people than the new arrivals. But it is clear that it has also contributed in this case. I think we should remember what the situation is now, a few years after the situation in 2015. Although there were big problems and a strained situation in 2015, when many people came to Sweden, we have managed to deal with it in a decent way.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-416	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the answer, again, Peter Eriksson! From my side, I think that the government should review the problems that arise from the buying-in of dwellings, especially now that the buying-in of dwellings in municipalities is growing this much. We do not know how it continues, but since the need for housing is very great, I assume that we will continue to see this development. We believe that the influence of the right-of-occupancy association should be increased in one way or another when it comes to buying dwellings from the municipality. It is about being able to regulate the ability of municipalities to influence market prices. You may be able to set different levels or similar, and it is about how the bidding should take place in these cases. You need to look at this, because I do not think that the housing associations should be as lawless as they are in this case. We know that right-of-occupancy associations cannot refuse municipalities and county councils to buy. Nor can they refuse to let certain persons to whom the municipalities choose to rent. I think that's a problem. If you have made the biggest investment in your life, you want to be able to influence the development of the association and the property in one way or another. It's about very big money for private individuals. You can also look at the part about being active in the association – there I feel that I don't really get any answer from the minister. For example, we have asked the Municipality of Malmö how to act when buying apartments in associations and how to take responsibility when it comes to operation and the like. There we have a very clear answer. The municipality does not intend to be involved. It has this right to purchase apartment-owners, and on that basis it has also made this possible. Of course, we do not want to see that development. Everyone must be involved in taking responsibility when they enter an association like that. That's why I'm thinking. Does the Minister share my view of the negative consequences? Will the Minister take any action after the investigation has arrived? Or does the Minister think that we should continue to have the system that we have today and that associations and private individuals should be allowed to accept this approach in the law?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-421	Mr President, I would like to It is possible that Roger Hedlund is partly right that we are talking about something different. I do not think that this study will propose any detailed rules on the type of housing that the municipalities will be able to use in their work to meet the housing supply requirement. Nor am I particularly interested in the fact that we should go in with such detailed rules. I don't think that would make it any easier for the municipalities. Rather, it would be more difficult for us, from the state side, to decide whether to use rental dwellings, flats or villas and which category to use for whom and what groups and what social responsibility should be used for. I believe that everyone benefits from the fact that we have a great deal of flexibility, that the municipalities have this responsibility and that we do not go in and regulate details in a way that actually only makes the work more difficult in practice. Roger Hedlund mentioned Malmö. Malmö is a good example. There they work intensively to build new rental housing. The public utility companies in Malmö and also private build to a large extent new rental housing, because that is where we have the major shortage today. This is done in many places. State investment aid is also used to bring down rental levels in a reasonable manner. This greatly facilitates new arrivals, young people and others who need new housing. It would also like to see greater responsibility in Stockholm and the Stockholm region to identify the categories of housing for which it is most needed.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-423	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats do not say no to municipal purchases. What I have pointed out is that one should review the problems that this can lead to and that one should strengthen the influence of housing rights associations over their properties. The problems we see cannot continue. It is a question of reviewing this and of seeing what opportunities we can strengthen. It is also about other consequences, such as the market impact that municipalities do when they enter the market with millions and buy housing. These are the consequences that I lift up in my interpellation. I had hoped that I would get an answer to this. In your answer you say that you intend to include this in an investigation and that you are waiting for answers. But now I get the answer that you have no thoughts of going in and regulating anything at all, but this investigation is about how we get more housing and other tools to create opportunities for more housing in the municipalities. This means that this study will not at all look at how to strengthen the ability of the housing associations to influence when it comes to housing purchases, who lives there and subletting – it also concerns the association's need for active managers among the association members and the like. Is that how I'm supposed to interpret your answer?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-425	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it may not really be the kind of issues that this investigation will deal with. It is more about helping and supporting the municipality and finding new tools to work with than reducing the ability to manage housing responsibility. I am also not interested in making it more difficult for the municipalities. Although the local authorities' work on buying in dwellings is a very small part, and I think it is unlikely that it will be a large part, I can have some understanding that they want to spread the needs in order to achieve greater integration. People with social needs can then be placed in different places instead of everyone in one place. I therefore believe that there may also be social reasons why people do not just want to use rental housing in these cases.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-427	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what measures in housing policy I and the government intend to take to reduce the number of bankruptcies in the construction industry. It is regrettable that the number of bankruptcies in the construction sector has increased. To a very large extent, the skills needed to maintain and repair housing are useful in building housing. The reduction in the ROT deduction financed, among other things, investment aid for the construction of rental dwellings and student housing introduced in 2016. The intention was also explicitly to shift resources from conversion to new construction. In 2015, according to SCB, a total of 51,364 dwellings were started, including a supplement through renovation of 3,318 apartments. According to Boverket's preliminary estimates, a total of 64,200 dwellings were started in 2016, and 72,000 dwellings are expected to begin this year and 74,500 are expected to begin in 2018. This means 45 per cent more dwellings started in 2018 compared to 2015. Of course, this means that increased resources, including labour, are geared towards new production of housing. A large part of the skills needed to renovate and maintain housing can also be used when building housing. There is also evidence that shortages of labour and the right skills may hinder the continuation of housing construction. There should therefore be good opportunities for both companies and workers involved in ROT work to find employment in building new housing. Of course, I will follow the further development of both companies and people active in the construction sector. However, I do not see any reason why specific measures need to be taken.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-431	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Figures from the rating company UC show that bankruptcy in the construction sector has increased significantly in 2017 compared to last year. This is a 21 % growth rate in the economic boom. According to the Swedish Construction Industries, the reduced ROT deductions are a significant reason for this. An internal survey shows that 70% of their member companies find that the market for ROT services is slowing down. The link between the decrease in demand for white services and the deterioration of the ROT deductions is considered to be contributing to the bankruptcies. In the wake of business failures and the decline in demand for white services, people who lose their jobs also follow. One of the aims behind reinforced ROT and RUT deductions was to do black jobs white again. Now we see a return to the situation that prevailed earlier, and that is extremely unfortunate. I am therefore a little surprised by the last sentence of the Minister's reply: No action when bankruptcies are rising in the boom! It is usually the case that bankruptcies occur when things are going badly in general for an industry. But right now things are going very, very well in the construction industry. There are serious consequences for the deterioration of ROT deductions. The possibility of deduction has thus been reduced from 50 per cent to 30 per cent. As the Minister states, the ROT deductions are indeed used for reconstruction and not for new construction. Today, we also have a housing situation where there is a great need for renovation, ranging from public utility to private rental properties, but also in private homes and right-of-occupancy housing. There are two different types of construction, two different types of work, which take place in the case of new construction and conversion. In the case of new buildings large companies and contractors often handle the construction while in the case of conversion smaller contractors and small firms. It is these companies that have been hit and whose bankruptcies we see are on the increase. It is not Skanska, NCC or their big industry colleagues that are going down, it is the small companies. As I said, there was a reason why the alliance government introduced increased ROT deductions. It was also about doing black jobs to white people. We Moderates believe that it is an untenable situation for a boom to see that those who should really have more to do now are doing worse. Sweden does not need less of ROT and RUT; we need more of ROT and RUT. I wonder who actually benefits from a reduced ROT deduction. It can hardly be the companies that fail. It can hardly be those who work in these companies and who lose their jobs. Nor can it be those who may now refrain from making the necessary renovations.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-438	Mr President, I would like to It is an interesting discussion that Mr Rothenberg raises. I think this is a quite natural change that is taking place in the construction industry. As Hans Rothenberg himself says, the construction industry is doing fantastically well in Sweden. The companies are busy. There is a shortage of labour in almost all businesses. There are lots of companies all over Sweden looking for more people. Carpenters, plumbers, electricians, engineers – all kinds of categories lack, not only in the big cities but in many locations around the country. The fact that some companies were more focused on ROT services and reconstruction and largely lived thanks to the support measures that existed in the past and that we have partially changed is not surprising to me. Now that companies are looking for people with lights and lanterns, it is natural that a lot of those they manage to get their hands on are from companies that may no longer have a lot to do and they can get good offers from the construction companies. It is also a structural change that is taking place as there is an industrialisation in the construction industry. More and more companies are growing up, expanding and investing in new premises where homes are built in a factory. Then they are delivered out, assembled and completed, instead of building the entire dwelling and doing all the work in place from the beginning. As a result, structural change is now taking place. More and more homes are now being built with an industrial background, and parts of or entire homes come from industries around Sweden to especially large cities. Overall, it makes it no wonder that some small businesses disappear. I can also imagine that in another economic cycle this trend may go the other way again. If we were to build smaller, new homes, there might be a focus on more rebuilding again. But today I see it as an important development that more people are working on building housing because we have such a housing shortage around Sweden, and it will probably be so for quite a few years to come.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-443	Mr President, I would like to I think the minister goes a little bit like a cat around hot porridge. The ROT deductions relate to renovation, renovation and extension. It is not only new construction that we need in Sweden, although we need a lot of new construction. We need more new construction than is happening right now. We need more new construction than the one the government is proud of is happening. According to Boverket's needs analysis, 710 000 new homes would have to be built by 2025. To achieve this, we need to build 88 000 new homes each year. I understand that the Minister is pleased that 60 000 – 70 000 a year are being built, but that is not enough to achieve the goal. We can also note that the share of newly built rental apartments in the metropolitan area has not increased at all. The investment aid that the government has launched, which is said to have shifted over the ROT deductions from, is used to a very small extent. Why is investment aid not used more than is done? The expensive housing that is being built is so expensive that neither newcomers, the elderly nor those who are young and even less unemployed have the opportunity to move into them. The companies working in the ROT sector, smaller construction companies that both build new and rebuild old, say that since the change in the terms of the ROT deductions, fewer orders and fewer jobs have become available, and there is a well-founded suspicion of a growing black market. Even though there will then be less jobs for these companies, it is noted that more of the products used are sold in conversion, extension and renovation. It is a clear indication of a return to a black market. Yes, you can use the ROT deductions as a cyclical regulator. It's good to do that, but it's not the only function. What was the most important reason why the alliance government was gassing on with increased ROT deductions was precisely this to do black jobs to white people, to ensure that VAT is also paid, that ordinary people can feel good conscience when they hire a craftsman, that they get a receipt and can actually be satisfied that they have paid in an honest and correct way and have the services done in a way that also gives guarantees. That's why the ROT deductions accelerated. Many of the companies I mention are still being asked, and people are counting on jobs for private individuals. But you also get the question, can you do this black? As I said earlier: When sales of flooring materials, carpets, at discounted purchase prices increase and companies in the conversion industry go bankrupt, something is not right. Then I think the Minister should see that there is reason to take some specific measures to correct this.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-452	Mr President, I would like to It is possible that Mr Rothenberg and I have slightly different views on this issue. I think it is right and good that the resources in this situation should be used primarily to build new housing and that it is good if more people with skills in the construction sector are involved in building new housing because we have a great need for it. There are many numbers spinning in the air, and a lot is not always right. I saw yesterday that Aftonbladet was out with some incorrect numbers, and Hans Rothenberg may not have followed us properly here either. Boverket's latest forecast says 600,000 new homes are needed by 2025. If that is true, it is quite precisely the level we are at today. If we manage to keep to that level, we will meet the challenge. I think that we politicians can be quite proud that it actually works in Sweden, that we managed to get production started so much that we can manage to deal with the large housing shortage in the long term, even if it took longer than it should have done before the production started properly. As regards investment aid, which is also under discussion, the forecast is that this year investment aid will be granted for approximately 10 000 apartments. This means that it is a significant proportion of rental housing built that receives investment aid. It also means that we get more at reasonable cost. The rents will be lower, and we will get more rental housing than we would otherwise have. So there is a rather joyful development going on here. In several cities where investment aid has been granted, rents have been reduced by SEK 1,000 to SEK 1,500 a month, which is of course quite significant for many people.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-457	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate. I think it is very important and that we have had a lot of clarification about where we stand in relation to each other. The problem of company failures in the construction sector as a result of reduced ROT deductions needs to be addressed with political will. I have noted during the debate that the Minister has avoided touching on what my interpellation is mainly about. It is not about whether more or fewer new homes are being built, but about building failures in the construction industry. These bankruptcies occur in smaller companies, often outside metropolitan areas. Smaller companies play a major role in the places where they operate. Businesses with 10 to 15 employees going bankrupt play a major role for those who do not have access to a close and large labour market. If there are more bankruptcies, there will be fewer players. If there are fewer players there will also be fewer who can build. And if there are fewer people who can build, less will be built. It almost sounds like a school book, but it's true. We need to build a lot new in Sweden, but in order for us to have a good standard in the existing housing stock in the country, it must be able to be continuously rebuilt, renovated and built. Here, we Moderates really want to safeguard small businesses in the construction sector. We also want to safeguard the opportunities for people to pay and do the right thing. We want the bankruptcies to end. And we want to adjust the ROT deductions back to previous levels.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-461	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the ROT deduction remains, but it has been reduced. It is therefore no wonder that a little fewer people use the deduction and that it will be an effect where our construction companies no longer work with ROT projects to the same extent. Instead, we now have a new building that is all the larger. My interpretation of the situation, Mr President, is that resources have been transferred from conversion to new construction. This is my explanation for the change. The government's actions have contributed to the transfer, and in this way we have also contributed to the fact that new building production has been able to be carried out to a greater extent than would otherwise have been the case. I do not see this as a huge problem today. I understand, of course, that it may be a problem for individual construction companies and individual craftsmen, who may seek new ways, but if we see it in a slightly larger perspective and for Sweden as a whole their competence in the new construction sector is needed instead. Overall, it must surely be seen as important and right that we make the best use of our combined resources at this stage.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-465	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Gjörtler has asked me whether I and the government are prepared to have the review of the Species Protection Regulation requested by two Heads of Government and what reasons I and the Government have for not carrying out a review. Mr Gjörtler has also asked what measures I and the Government intend to take to ensure that the Species Protection Regulation does not hinder forest owners' ability to conduct long-term and sustainable forestry. I would like to begin by saying that the government has a high level of ambition in terms of its work on biodiversity. The environmental objectives must be achieved, which means, among other things, that nature types and species associated with the forest landscape must have favourable conservation status and sufficient genetic variation. Swedish forestry policy is based on the two equal goals of production and the environment. It is important that forestry measures are carried out in a long-term economically, environmentally and socially sustainable manner. The environmental code applies in parallel with the forestry legislation, as well as the regulations notified under the Environmental Code, such as the Species Protection Regulation(2007:845). The provisions also apply to forestry measures. It is the responsibility of the operator to comply with the legislation and the responsibilities of the regulatory authorities to follow up on this. The Environmental Code entered into force on 1 January 1999. The aim of the Environmental Code is to promote sustainable development that enables present and future generations to live in a healthy and good environment. The Species Protection Regulation, which is supported by the Environmental Code, contains both provisions implementing the EU Nature Conservation Directive – the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive – as well as purely national provisions. As an EU member, Sweden is obviously keen to comply with the rules agreed jointly by the EU countries. The nature conservation directives aim, in particular, to create opportunities for species and habitats to achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status and to avoid measures and activities that could impair this status. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have decided on 21 June 2016 on common guidelines for the management of species protection matters in forestry. The guidelines should support both the Swedish Forest Board and the county administrative boards in dealing with cases where forestry measures concern protected species. The Government considers the guidelines to be an important step in the efforts to protect protected species in the forest. In a letter to the Government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have assessed that there is a need to investigate the Species Protection Regulation to ensure that it is applicable, effective and legally secure (M2016/ 01731/ Nm). The authorities note in the letter that the application of the Species Protection Regulation to forestry has been delayed. The question of whether to carry out a review of the Species Protection Regulation is being addressed in the Government Office. In view of the above, I do not intend to take any further action at the moment.
i-4TVCv7prKgrzrTnLsr5ACL	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to the interpellation is the feeling of concern expressed by many forest owners about ownership and the possibility of using the forest and what is perceived as a gradual erosion of ownership. What is described is a gradual change and a series of things that are happening. Sometimes it can be a little bigger things, but there are also a number of smaller things that may not be so dramatic separately but that together contribute to the picture and the clear feeling that ownership is on a sloping plane, which also leans more and more strongly. I mentioned some examples in the interpellation. Key biotopes are one such example. It is therefore not a formal protection for the forest, but in practice it has come to mean a ban on logging, at least for those forest owners who get a key biotope excellent on their land. Another example concerns the so-called LULUCF rules, i.e. the EU accounting rules on climate emissions from land use and forestry. There we see a clear risk that the proposal put forward by the Commission could impose restrictions on how Swedish forests are allowed to be used. We do not think that the government has acted actively enough. Now, from Parliament's side, we have been a little clearer and set our foot against the government, and this contributes to the picture. We also have proposals to extend the possibility of objecting to repercussions – the right of appeal that the Government addresses in the budget bill. All of this contributes to the picture. Then there is the protection of species, which is perhaps the most obvious example. So this applies to the species protection regulation. There are a number of examples where responsible authorities have referred to the Species Protection Regulation when they have prohibited Swedish forest owners from making fellings because there are protected species in the land where felling is planned. This creates major problems and concerns for forest owners. According to the Forest Protection Act, production targets and environmental objectives must weigh equally, as the Government also mentioned in its response. In practice, they are intimately connected. Private ownership of forests is a basic foundation for ensuring the long-term responsibility needed to be able to have active forest management and profitable forestry, which in turn is the prerequisite for protecting different environmental values. In addition, in terms of productive forest land, the percentage that is excluded from forestry and thus protected by voluntary provisions by forest owners is higher than the proportion that has formal protection. The forest owners therefore take a huge responsibility. This is made possible by forest owners who believe in the future but who at the same time perceive that the state has a reasonable approach and a balanced view of the environment and production. The paradox in this is that those who take responsibility and are very good at managing and caring for their forests may create the very values that in the next step make the use of the forest impossible. If you manage the forest very well you may get a key biotope label on parts of the land or suffer from the species protection regulation by successfully attracting some species that does not allow you to harvest the forest. This is a problem that is getting bigger, and we see that it has grown significantly in recent times. This has been highlighted by the Directors-General of the two authorities responsible for these matters. They have called on the government to review. My question is: why does it take the government so long to give a statement as to whether such a review is to be carried out?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-482	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler swinges quite broadly here and makes all sorts of claims about what is happening in forestry policy, but he also says he wants to focus on the species protection regulation. I take his word for it, because that is actually what this debate is about. It paints a picture of a number of changes that would affect the Swedish forest owners. As far as the Species Protection Regulation is concerned, what has happened is that the two responsible authorities, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, have decided on common guidelines for dealing with these matters in forestry. This has been painted as a threat to Swedish property rights, and I find it very difficult to buy that image. This is the change that has actually taken place. These are, of course, steps that are good for everyone involved – that we have clarity in the application. These are complex issues that affect many. From the government's side, we clearly strive to ensure that our authorities work together, and we have increased the demands for collaboration to be active. Then I also think it is important, for the sake of the background, to remind you that this is a matter in which much has happened in recent years, both with new rules from the European Union and with a series of trials in our courts. Not least two cases have gone up to the highest level, and it has – as I have already pointed out – obviously been important for the government to wait for this and analyse the judges carefully before we make any assessments as to whether there is a review or whether we are going to make other changes. That analysis is ongoing within the Government Office. That is part of the preparation of the matter and of the request we have received from the two responsible authorities. This is not just about building polemics. I think we have too much policy in the forest debate. Basically, I see that we agree on a great deal. The private forest owners are the basis of Swedish forestry policy and how to take care of Swedish forests; there we are in complete agreement. This is the principle we have also put forward – production and the environment should be equal goals, and the main responsibility lies with the forest owner. It is also because most of the knowledge about our forests is in the hands of forest owners, and it is expressed, among other things, in the voluntary commitments – which are large and important. Then there are also levels where the state must of course ensure that the protection is carried out and assess when something is so protective that it should have, for example, area protection. The possibility of compensation will then come into force, and this government has increased the possibility for forest owners to receive compensation by increasing the funds available for area protection. The result is also many decisions around the country for increased protection. It is important to bear in mind that we see a very worrying trend for many of our species, not least in forestry. We must take this very seriously and act before we have lost these species completely. I am fully aware that this is the most boring response we ministers are repeating, but while we are preparing questions in the Government Office, it goes without saying that we cannot comment. This is a question we have received from the authorities, and we prepare it in the Government Office. We will, of course, give an answer.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-489	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. I understand that the government is putting a great deal of emphasis on describing environmental measures in relation to forests, but that it is thin with measures when we talk about the second part, i.e. measures that are intended to improve or strengthen opportunities for production or, for example, strengthen ownership. The Government is welcome to give some examples of what the Government intends to do to strengthen ownership and facilitate the ability to manage forestry. I think they shine with their absence, unfortunately. The Government mentions that the government increases the compensations for area protection, and this is an issue that can also bear to be discussed. We have very much protected forest already; we have a lot of forest that is exempt from production. According to the Swedish Forest Agency, more than 25 per cent are exempt from forestry in Sweden, and the Nagoya Protocol, for example, requires 17 per cent. It would be interesting to know whether the Government believes that the proportion of forest protected should be further increased. In the second wave you should see the benefits of the forest that is actually cultivated. There we also agree that the forest has an important role in delivering the biomass needed for very many different things to help with the climate change. This applies to building materials as well as fuels and fuels, for example. If we are to meet the climate challenge, we must be able to use the forest, and the more forest we protect, the more opportunities are reduced. It is difficult to get away from the risk of a contradiction there. Should the forest that does not have the specific natural values that give rise to formal protection yield higher yields? How does the Minister for the Environment view this? If so, how does it benefit the composition of different biotopes and the viability of the natural environment? It may be that good risks becoming the enemy of the best. The authorities have highlighted this as a problem with the Species Protection Regulation. They go so far as to say that it needs to be ensured that the regulation is applicable, effective and legally secure. I find that quite remarkable. That is very clear, and it points out the urgency of doing something about it. We cannot have a regulatory framework that risks not being applicable, effective and legally secure. I think the government should act much more quickly. There is no reason to delay this. It is more than 14 months since the Directors-General of the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency submitted their letter. The government should be able to give a message that this review should be carried out. I find it very difficult to see why a review should not be made. Then, of course, the next step will be to deal with what the review concludes and what proposals for changes might be relevant – that is to say, the next discussion – but just to note that the review is needed, I think it should be quite simple when the two responsible Directors-General of the authorities submit this letter. The Government received two questions in the interpellation. With regard to the first, that is, if you are prepared to do the review, there have been many different messages in the media. The Minister for the Environment has said that there should be no investigation into species protection, in an interview in ATL in May. This demented the Minister for Rural Development, and it was reiterated that the issue was being prepared in the Government Office. The Minister for the Environment then backed up with the Minister for Rural Affairs and said that the question is still being prepared, and that is the answer we are getting from the Minister for the Environment here and now. However, it is difficult to release oneself from the feeling that there are tensions in the government and that the Green Party may not be so interested in reviewing the Species Protection Regulation. I find that regrettable, for the reasons I have mentioned. I believe that this is also important in order to safeguard both forestry and environmental interests.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-498	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by commenting on what is said about media data. I was asked this spring whether this was the case, and it was clear between me and the journalist that we were talking about the period before the summer and whether it was appropriate to start a review of the protection regulation at the time. I said it wasn't in that time span, and I can say it was true. We made that clarification to the paper afterwards. So I haven't changed my mind in any part, but it's always the case when we talk about time that it can be interpreted differently – what does that mean for the time being? However, the period of time we talked about was before the summer. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler highlights the complexity that exists in the fact that some chips are found to have such high protection value that we provide formal protection. Then compensation will be paid. Then there are large parts and qualities worth protecting also in the forest that is managed. It is these two bones that we have decided that Swedish forestry policy should rest on. It is important that we have an environmental objective and a production target and that the main responsibility lies with the forest owner. That is the consequence of the policy that Parliament has decided on – and which I hope and expect we actually agree on. I would also like to correct Jonas Gjörtler with regard to the protection objectives that exist. The Parliament has taken a decision on milestones and formal protection, and that goal has not been achieved. Here, too, I expect us to agree that this will of course be achieved. So the goal to be achieved is to increase the area that has formal protection. On that basis, we then have a lot to do to also achieve the international commitments that we have made with the Nagoya Protocol. I expect that it is Parliament's intention that we should live up to the international commitments that we have, which relate to both quantity and quality. What we want with protection is to create a strong conservation status for different species through strong habitats. That's the goal. I would like to direct this discussion more towards quality than quantity. We are doing an incredible amount at the moment in terms of nature conservation around Sweden, but still the forecasts for many of the endangered species look bad. I hope that the Moderates or any part of the Parliament do not falter in the joint commitment we have to protect endangered species from extinction. If we have our hands in our pants pockets, the development could be irreversible. Again, forestry policy is a complex issue, and one should manage to have several balls in the air. In Sweden, we have many incredibly talented forest owners who can handle this – building a foundation for formal protection, increasing protection and having clear protection in production. The government has very active work on this, and it is primarily the responsibility of my colleague, Mr Bucht. Together with the companies, private interests and researchers there is development work. It is about developing technology, disseminating knowledge and developing the methods we have in production so that we can refine it and become better at both using and protecting.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-505	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I note that we have not heard here today any examples of what I called for, i.e. measures that the government intends to take to improve the ability to manage forestry, increase production and strengthen ownership. On the other hand, the government has a great deal of focus and is happy to publish the text about the environmental measures. It merely confirms the image that I express in the interpellation, that is, the balance between these two objectives is not what it should be. It is a list right now where environmental objectives are given more space at the expense of the second part. This risks creating problems for both parts in the long term, because if ownership and production do not work, environmental objectives will not be achieved because ownership is the prerequisite. It sounds like we actually agree on that. I agree with the description that quality should be set before quantity. It is not the amount of formally protected land itself that is important, but it is also important to have quality in the protection that exists. But then there is the paradox that those who are doing well today, caring for their forests and use them well may give rise to these key biotopes or to species that are covered by species protection and cannot use their forests. What signals does this send to forest owners? I do not think that the government answers these questions reasonably. It would have been easy for the government to respond to the letter from the Directors-General and say: of course we have to review the protection of species, because what is described is completely unreasonable. There was no need to say anything about the exact changes to be made. This does not have to be done in advance, but it may be suggested in the review. I am also forced to note, as far as my second question is concerned, whether the government is prepared to take any other action, that the Minister gives the answer that it is currently not prepared to do so, which I also regret.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-511	Mr President, I would like to If you go into a debate and have decided exactly what the outcome will be, I understand that you do not listen to what is being said. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler asked for examples of what is being done to develop the mill, and I made it clear that, as is well known, it is on my ministerBucht table. I gave examples of how we in this sector work very intensively in collaboration with the industry and researchers to work with innovation – technological innovation, innovation in know-how and the application of new technologies – so that we develop the methods and refine them in the use of the forest so that we can even better combine the goal of good production and good environmental protection. It is a constant development work and also a work where the government is very active. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler is surprised that a Minister for the Environment, who is responsible for nature conservation, puts out the words more in that part. I am counting on future ministers to do so completely independently of party colours, and I am absolutely convinced that Jonas Gjörtler is aware of the division of responsibilities that we have within the government. All in all, we actively work with forestry policy and maintain and develop the principle that we should have both good production and good environmental protection.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-515	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me a number of questions about the so-called BTI method for mosquito control and whether I intend to support the development of the SIT method against flood mosquitoes. I answered precisely these questions in Parliament on 30 May, when Oscarsson was unable to participate. Combating flood mosquitoes is largely a regional responsibility. This applies, for example, to care measures such as mowing and grazing. Support for control has been based, among other things, on various actions in the Swedish Rural Development Programme, for which the Swedish Agriculture Agency is the managing authority. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, on behalf of the Government, has studied the effects of the control with BTI to ensure that this control does not have adverse effects in the sensitive environment. The Authority concluded that a balanced use of BTI has no direct effects on birds, fish and mammals including livestock and domestic animals. However, the knowledge of the effects of BTI on other taxonomic groups in the ecosystem is insufficient. Against this background, both the former and the present government have stated that combating with Vectobac G is not a sustainable solution and that it is important to find long-term solutions to the problems of mass flood mosquitoes. The Government has appointed the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency as the responsible authority to monitor the state of research in the field of control and other long-term measures to reduce the presence of flood mosquitoes and to disseminate information about such measures. The government is following with interest the development of the SIT method to combat flood mosquitoes, but at present there is no concrete proposal for the government to take a position on.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-520	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for the Environment. This is an issue that I have been engaged in for a long time. This is a problem to actually take seriously. Sometimes you can think: Mosquito, what is the problem? But if you think so, you need to visit the lower Dalälven. I would like to say straight away to the Minister for the Environment that I recommend the Minister for the Environment to visit and meet the local people there. There is a special mosquito society that works with this, and it is important to get direct contact. There is careful work on this. Let me take an example. When the first control was carried out in 2002, there were 22 000 mosquitoes in a mosquito trap after one night. One might think: How much are 22,000 mosquitoes? I can tell the Minister for the Environment that 2,000 mosquitoes are difficult, and if there are 10,000 mosquitoes in a mosquito trap, it is intolerable. So this is a big problem. Another issue that is important to remember is why the state should be involved in contributing. Well, the state has a responsibility because the state is the largest single producer of mosquitoes in this area. It holds about 45% of the control area and, of course, needs to assume its responsibilities for this to work. It is also important to look at how it has historically worked out with the economy. Minister for the Environment Kjell Larsson was visiting and saw that it was not sustainable but that you had to help. He made sure it got started, and he had as a principle that the funding would be fifty-fifty. Mats Svegfors then conducted an investigation into this. And they made sure that until 2014 there was 4 million per year of aid. When Karolina Skog's representative, Åsa Romson, took over, the state share was reduced by 25 per cent, to 3 million for 2015. She said we have to rely a little on the forces of the weather. It was the other way around. The problems were so severe that an additional 5 million had to be added. How does the Minister for the Environment view this? Is it not time to go back to the original idea that funding should be fifty-fifty, because the state accounts for a large part of production by owning the land within Natura 2000 and having national parks? Every year, the condition has been that alternative methods should be brought back. What exactly is the Minister for the Environment after? What's she looking at? There is one method that has been highlighted two years in a row. It's the so-called SIT method. How does the Minister for the Environment view this approach? It has been used successfully elsewhere in the world. And the WTO has recently approved it as a method against sting mosquitoes. How does the Minister view funding? But I also wonder how she views the alternative method, which has been requested year after year.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-528	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I think that Mikael Oscarsson's way of dealing with other people's time is not very respectful. As I said, I have answered precisely this question at a time when Oscarsson did not show up. But we'll still have the discussion one more time here. I'll tell you what I said back then. I said it at the beginning and will do it again because, of course, I have not changed my mind since the time I was in this House and debated the issue last time. I repeat that responsibility for mosquito control issues lies mainly regional. Why is that? The explanation is very simple. This is where we have knowledge of the factors that are important for effective control. One knows the area and the problem and has been following it for many years. The method that the state should instead get involved at a detailed level, evaluate scientific facts and be precisely limited to which methods are best and that this should be done by making an individual visit to the area is a strange turn. The reason why decisions should be taken regionally, that the county boards are an important player, is that this is where the knowledge is. There is also collaboration between county administrative boards in different parts of the country that have problems with mosquitoes. But it is also important to emphasise that the conditions within Sweden differ in these matters. So you have to go down locally to really find the right method. This is also the background to the fact that both this government and the previous government have been clear in calling for other methods, alternative methods – while the state has taken responsibility by ensuring that there has been money for the fight. It asks those who know this best, i.e. the responsible authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, who has the expertise at an overall level, and the responsible county administrative board, to look at this, instead of us sitting and making that kind of choice here in Stockholm. That is the order we believe in. This should come from the bottom up as regards the choice of methods and the development of methods. They're supposed to come from the ground. And the state has been present for a number of years now, to pay the costs of making these choices.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-534	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to that there would be a strange turn of regional responsibility, it is obvious – and the Minister for the Environment knows that – that there is commitment and that money is being invested. What I was after was the money that's been cut. Apparently, the Minister for the Environment is mad at me for not being able to participate in the previous debate. It was 10:30. Unfortunately, I'm a single parent after my wife passed away. I couldn't be there. But since you are making such a thing out of it, Karolina Skog, I just want to say that you will probably have to count on more debates on the matter. I am sorry that it is difficult to have this discussion again. But there'll probably be more. This is a method approved by the WHO. And you've asked for alternative methods. Mountains and pastures, which the Ministry of the Environment and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have developed as long-term sustainable solutions, do not provide the reduction of flood mosquitoes needed for people and animals in the area to feel any difference. For example, a cross-country experiment was made in 1996 with river meadow songs. It totally failed. In 2013 – 2016 Forshaga municipality, at the advice of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, tried to limit mosquito problems in Deje at Klarälven by using shrub clearing, grazing of cows, birdhouses, bats and gas traps. It was a complete failure. It has since been described by Forshaga Municipality. In fact, there was a seminar here in the Swedish Parliament on Monday with Aldo Malavasi, who is head of an IAEA department in Vienna that has developed SIT against sting mosquitoes. Jan Lundström, who is the director of Biological Myggkontroll, members of parliament and other interested parties, also participated in the seminar. In view of the fact that both the IAEA and the WHO advocate the SIT as a method of control against sting mosquitoes, I find it strange if the government does not catch on. Do you have a resistance to that? It would be interesting to sort it out. The SIT method should appeal to the Minister for the Environment as it has considerable potential to reduce the need to use Vectobac G, as in the control of flood mosquitoes at the lower Dalälven. If Sweden is the first to adapt the SIT method to the flood mosquitoes, it opens up the possibility to adapt even for similar species throughout Europe. Sweden could take the lead in developing a method that could eventually lead to a significant reduction in dependence on pesticides in Europe. Once the question has been raised with the Environmental Protection Agency, they do not want to talk about it. It is treated with silence. When it's brought up with the Department of the Environment, they don't want to talk about it. I now give the Minister for the Environment the opportunity to publish the text at the best speaking time. What really is behind the fact that the alternative methods are to be put in place every year? What answers does she want? The research leaders, including with the support of the WHO, point to the SIT method. How does the minister view this?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-542	Mr President, I would like to There will be a round-up in the reasoning. Oscarsson seems to have problems with the fact that both the current and the previous government have, in addition to funding a specific method, demanded that those who sit on the knowledge of local conditions also look at alternative methods. He then points out just such an alternative method. If it is as good as Oscarsson points out, it is appropriate that these actors highlight when reporting to the responsible authority, which is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is the authority that has the expertise to make an assessment. I would also like to make this very clear. I dare say that Oscarsson is in no way the right person to judge which of these methods is best. I'm definitely not. It is simply not a role for politicians to choose a method of control in a specific part. Of course, experts will do this. The Government has clearly indicated that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the role to follow the research situation and act. If they find that there is a new method that needs the approval of the government in order to be applied in Sweden, they will present such a proposal to the government. Then it'll be a question for us. Both this and the previous government have been very clear that this work is a regional responsibility and that the choice of control methods is a matter for our specialist authorities, which have expertise. This is a principle that we maintain. You do not do people in the areas that are affected a favor if you make this an issue that we in the Government Office or the Riksdag should decide. We simply do not have the trade union expertise here.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-548	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The Minister for the Environment thinks there's going to be a round-up. I myself may think that the government stands for the real round when it calls for alternative methods. When it gets an answer, it doesn't take it all to heart. After all, those who have done the control have proposed this method. The WTO, too, is in favour of and recommends it now. I am not saying that this is exactly what we are going to do, but I have spoken warmly because this is an important thing in order to be able to live, live and act as an individual and as an entrepreneur in this area. There is a method, Vectobac G, which works but which the government has unfortunately withdrawn support to. There was a level of remuneration at fifty-fifty, which should be maintained. I have also pointed out that the government wants alternative methods to exist. I've shown you to look at mowing and bait. It's nice, and I'm very much for this, but it doesn't seem to give the results needed to be an alternative to Vectobac G. What I was into when we had a seminar here in Parliament on Monday was that this could be a successful combination. There is a proposal for a pilot study to test whether the method works against sting mosquitoes in an area at Huddunge. By the way, it was where the big measurement was made when you got 22,000 mosquitoes in a mosquito trap. Thanks to control, it was brought down to almost zero. Question n is where the round is really. Can the government and the minister consider supporting a pilot project in this way?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-553	Mr President, I would like to Oscarsson says that he has not taken a stand or advocate specific methods. But when I read his interpellation, I see that that is very detailed which methods should be tested by which actors and in which places in the country. We have provided such information to our authorities. That's how we run the country. The reason I do not answer what I think about different methods is because I have neither the mission nor the expertise to decide the issue. Nor do we have this at the Ministry of the Environment. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is designated as the authority that will follow the research situation. It is the authority that receives the reports that follow up the efforts made on different trials using different methods and the international research situation. If there were interesting results at a parliamentary seminar, I suggest that you hand it over to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which is the authority that can review it and take it further. If they find a new method that they see need the government's approval in order to be able to apply, they will submit such a proposal to the government. Then it will be a matter on which we will take a position.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-557	Mr President, I would like to Cassandra Sundin has asked the Minister for Social Security if the government intends to work to increase resources for activities and projects in the field of green rehabilitation and thereby encourage new initiatives. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Initially, the Government considers that the state has a responsibility to create the conditions for a rich and varied outdoor life. The Riksdag has set the overall objective for outdoor recreation policy, and ten measurable goals for outdoor life have been decided by the Government and reported to the Riksdag. These objectives include outdoor activities for good public health and a rich outdoor life at school, where the latter focuses on children and young people. I note that activities aimed at children and young people with various forms of ill-health or exclusion should be included in these objectives. The Government believes that the conditions for people to practise outdoor activities should continue to be developed. Access to outdoor activities is central to achieving several of the environmental quality objectives including the generational target. A rich asset and diversity of nature, public access, individual interest and the commitment of non-profit organisations is the basis for people's opportunities to engage in outdoor activities in all parts of the country. Staying in nature helps to achieve the overall public health objective of creating social conditions for good health on equal terms. Everyone should have the opportunity to stay in nature and practise outdoor activities on the basis of public rights, regardless of disability, ill health or exclusion. The activities of the outdoor organisations are very important for the possibility to engage in outdoor activities in Sweden. It is therefore also a matter for the state to support organisations and individuals in the outdoor work. In Sweden, the non-profit outdoor organisations are represented by the umbrella organisation Svenskt Friluftsliv, which also benefits and pays out state grants to its member organisations. Svenskt Friluftsliv gathers close to 2 million members from 25 different non-profit outdoor organisations, where about 300 000 of the members are children and young people. As of 2016, the Government increased the grant 13:4 Support to outdoor organisations by SEK 20 million per year to nearly SEK 48 million per year. The aim of the increase is to strengthen the opportunities of outdoor organisations to provide support for activities that have children and young people as target groups, among other things. This includes support for the school's activities with outdoor days and pedagogy as well as outdoor activities for children and young people, contact with nature, information, physical activity, diversity and integration. Activities involving children and young people have been prioritised for many years. Cassandra Sundin describes in his question the activity Adventure Day, which is funded by donations and contributions as well as support from Friluftspromotion and sponsors. This activity is aimed at young people who in some way have or have had a tough and struggling everyday life and give them the opportunity to get out into nature on an adventure that spans a whole day. The Government believes that this activity is one of many good examples of how outdoor organisations can contribute to improved health for people by creating opportunities for outdoor activities. Friluftspromotion is one of the organisations that receives the largest annual grants from appropriations 13:4, both to the organisation's activities as a whole and to specific projects. The Government intends to continue to develop its policies, follow up its objectives and review measures to achieve them. The Government also intends to monitor the impact of the increased state grants to outdoor organisations. The Government believes that a continued high level of ambition is needed to achieve the outdoor life goals. In this work, children and young people continue to be a priority group.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-567	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister very much for his reply. Nature plays an incredibly important role in public health and rehabilitation. By making it accessible and open to more people, rehabilitation can be used with and in nature from several aspects. But it's also about environmental awareness and children's and young people's positive experiences of nature. What you learn and experience as a child is often cared for as an adult. As the Minister says, the activities of outdoor organisations are incredibly important. Although the government has increased the grant slightly, Swedish Outdoor Life has expressed that you need more to achieve all goals. How does the minister view it? Will there be room for a new increase in funding in the future?
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-570	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for an important debate. It is important that we talk about the objectives of outdoor politics, whether we look to pass them and what is happening. I would like to reiterate that the increase in support for outdoor organisations that we have made was from 28 million to 48 million. It's a very sharp increase. I have been privileged to meet several of the member organisations in Swedish Outdoor Life, and I see examples of what they do with this money. A little anecdotal: One of the things they do is to turn to schools and support their work in bringing children into the wild. Svenskt Friluftsliv helps their member organizations to reach new groups and It's often businesses that don't require you to be a member, but it can be open – a specific day you can show up quite spontaneously. I think that is very important, not least for children in exclusion, where membership can otherwise be a threshold. The focus must now be that we follow developments with the new money that has come. What business is it going to be? To what extent does this activity contribute to achieving the objectives set by the Riksdag? We have to let it go for a while before we make new decisions about any even greater additions.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-573	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is gratifying that it is an increase. It is clear that we will see what development will be like with the increase in funding. At the same time, however, we must also look at what the organisations themselves need at the present time, as they have so far expressed. In their reports, Swedish Outdoor Life has presented both what they are doing and what they have as an ambition to do in the future. Given the importance of these activities in so many different areas, it is important to give priority to funding for this, not least from a public health perspective. I've talked a lot to the secretary-general of Swedish Outdoor Life. They are grateful for an increase, but at the same time they have even greater objectives than the current increase.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-574	Mr President, I would like to I have also had several discussions with the organisation Svenskt Friluftsliv, partly to follow up what happens with the money, and partly to see what it looks like in the work with the outdoor policy goals. In these discussions, it is clear that the appropriations are an important part but that they also involve several other parts. Part of it is that infrastructure is needed out there for you to be able to operate. There, the additions made by the government to operation and maintenance and protection of nature are very important. It's about equipping joints and protection but also about very basic things like equipping toilets and making sure they're disabled adapted. It can be a very important prerequisite for an association that will take out children, not least children who are unaccustomed to being in nature. Swedish Outdoor Life is also involved in the discussion about increasing children's mobility during school time and inspiring mobility during the school day. It is not only about grants but also about engaging the knowledge that exists within the organisation in several different parts but also creating the conditions in the form of infrastructure for one to be able to grow.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-577	Mr President, I would like to I agree with that. It's very important parts of these questions. I must thank the Minister very much for his reply. I look forward to how developments will take place in this area.
i-1d8c45d41f37d342-578	Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by saying that I am very happy that there is a great commitment to Swedish Outdoor Life. It is a matter of large organisations with many members that do a lot of good for public health and quality of life and enable many Swedes to realize their love for Swedish nature. I am very happy to discuss this in Parliament, which has set out the important objectives of open-air policy.
