i-aeb8b605412347e5-2	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the right personal data is recorded for those seeking asylum in Sweden. The background to the issue is problems with different personal data being registered with different authorities. Although there is no reliable data on the extent of the problem, I and the government take very seriously the data on the use of different and false personal data for criminal purposes, for example in order to exploit welfare systems. Correct personal data of public authorities is a prerequisite for the authorities to be able to make the right decision. Determining the identity of those in Sweden is also an important part of maintaining regulated immigration. First of all, I would like to point out that asylum seekers are not able to use welfare systems to the same extent as registered persons. The problem that has been highlighted therefore seems to concern people other than asylum seekers. The government has taken several measures to prevent the misuse of identity data. As early as September 2015, the government decided to commission a special investigator to undertake a review of the welfare state's ability to resist organised and systematic economic crime. The investigator's mandate included, inter alia, evaluating the exchange of information between the criminal or otherwise affected authorities and, if necessary, proposing changes. The investigator presented his mandate on 5 May 2017 and made several proposals aimed at preventing crime by ensuring accurate data in registers relevant for payments. In addition to proposals for more effective exchange of information between, for example, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Finnish Immigration Service, there are proposals for a new penal provision called a civil record crime (SOU 2017:37). The report is now to be referred back. In 2016, a new penal provision on illegal use of identity was also introduced. The purpose of the penalty is to prevent the misuse of identity data and to protect against the restriction of privacy by having them used. An important part of the search for proper decision-making is that authorities can interact and exchange information with each other in an efficient and effective way. Therefore, as part of the fight against organised crime, in 2016 a new law was introduced on the obligation to provide information in the case of cooperation between authorities against certain organised crime. It cannot be excluded that, even in other areas where there is a need for interaction and information exchange, measures may be needed, for example, when an authority's decision on registration is dependent on information held by another authority. Such proposals are contained, for example, in the said report on the state's ability to resist welfare crime. I would like to wait for the referrals, but I note that an increased exchange of information requires careful consideration, not least with regard to the integrity aspect. It also requires a thorough analysis of whether the confidentiality interest should take precedence over the interest in the disclosure of the information. The government takes the problem of incorrect personal data in government registers very seriously, and we will have to take steps to overcome the gaps that make it possible to exploit our welfare systems. Support and support should go to those who need it, not to criminals.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-8	Mr President, I would like to I think the Minister for Justice and Migration's answer is quite good. What I miss little is how and when we will get to grips with this problem, but I understand that there are some legislative proposals that will come. I felt real concern when I found out about these tasks. TV4 reported that the Swedish Tax Agency had found that 30 to 50 per cent of asylum seekers have different personal data registered with different authorities. Then you can also consider why people choose to do so. How is it that they choose to register with different identities of different authorities? The Minister for Justice and Migration replies that he would like to point out that asylum seekers are not able to use welfare systems to the same extent as registered persons. The problem that has been highlighted, therefore, seems to me to be primarily encouraging people other than asylum seekers. In a way, that's true. They do not have the same access to welfare. But the problem is that we don't know where some people come from. If you do not know, it is also, of course, difficult to establish whether they have a basis for asylum. That's a big problem, I'd say. Establishing an identity correctly is extremely important from this point of view, including from the point of view of legal certainty. Being lax in identity creates a lack of trust between state and citizen and in trust between citizens. This could be a grant or a loan. The whole structure of society is based on trust. Is it the right person standing in front of me? Is Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson standing before me? Can I be really sure of that? These are questions that may be asked in the future, and that is not good. It's not a good system if we don't know who's here and who it is. For example, a person who has different identities can start a business and receive a start-up grant in an identity, receive sickness benefit in another identity and take out a loan in a third. It is clear that this will be a major problem that will increase if we do not take proper action and remedy it. Of course, the issue should be investigated carefully, and there is a balance between personal integrity and state control. This should be balanced wisely. Nevertheless, it is alarming that the tax authorities have found that 30 to 50 percent of asylum seekers have different personal data registered with different authorities. In a few cases it may be a matter of spelling the name wrong, but 30 - 50 percent is quite a lot. Mr President, I would like to For my part, it is difficult to assess whether the government's proposal is strong enough to prevent this, but something must of course be done to prevent crime in the future. Ultimately, it is about the foundation of the entire welfare system. Interconnection of registers is one way. This may also involve changes in the procedures of the authorities. The Swedish bureaucracy has always been known to be so thorough in the past. It almost feels like it's not the same anymore, and I very much regret that. The question is very problematic. We must tackle this and be able to control it. I wonder if there is anything that can be done right now. If you have registered an incorrect information, it should be corrected without any new laws being required.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-15	Mr President, I would like to I think we need to sort out a couple of things, because there are a couple of misconceptions here. We have tried to check out the information that 30 – 50% of asylum seekers would be in different registers with different personal data. There is no evidence to support that claim. I think it's based on a misconception. I saw the TV4 feature myself this morning just to see how it was formulated. There was no one from the IRS who used that task, but it was a speaker's voice who said this. I think that is a misconception of a different situation. Asylum seekers are not registered in Sweden. They are registered with the Finnish Immigration Service, but they are not registered with the Swedish Tax Agency. When they are registered as asylum seekers, fingerprints are taken and no one can be double-registered. It is only after they have received a residence permit that they can go to the Swedish Tax Agency and be registered in Sweden. I believe that the basis of the misconception is that the Swedish Tax Agency has said that they have to request additional information in 30 – 50% of cases when they are going to register people. That's where those numbers come from. That is quite different from saying that 30 to 50% of asylum seekers would have a lot of double identities. It also falls on its own absurdity, as we currently have about 60 000 asylum seekers in Sweden. If it was half, we'd have 30,000 in different records. I think the figures have been misunderstood. As I said in the interpellation response, asylum seekers do not have access to our welfare systems. The only thing they really have access to is the daily allowance, which is between SEK 19 and 71 per day depending on whether they cook their own food or not. In practice, that is the only thing they can absorb. But it is not said that we do not have a problem with dual identities or that people are exploiting this. But then one should probably think not first of asylum seekers but of criminals in general and organised criminals. It's a concern. It has been a concern for a long time, I would say. That is why we appointed the investigation during Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén in 2015. He would go through all the systems that now exist to see: how can we close the gaps that might exist where organised criminals try to exploit welfare systems? He makes a large number of proposals. Among other things, a special civil record crime is such a proposal. If you deliberately try to cheat with the population records, it should be criminalised. He also proposes direct access from the Swedish Tax Agency to a number of other authorities, including the Finnish Immigration Service. However, that proposal was already presented in 2010, but the old government did nothing about it. We're gonna do something about it. He suggests that the Tax Agency should be able to make home visits to really check that people live where they say they live and are the person they are. For example, he wants to tighten up the procedures for issuing driving licences, which have left much to be desired today. He also wants to impose an obligation on all municipalities and authorities that when they suspect that something is wrong in the population register, they should report it to the Swedish Tax Agency. There is no such obligation today. This is a solid investigation. It is a high priority for the government that we ensure that we move forward with the legislative proposals that we need. We should not have a system where we leave the gaps, but we must make sure that they are closed.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-27	Mr President, I would like to Of course, no one will be happier than I am if the information provided on TV4 is not correct. In that case TV4 should go out with a dementia so that it does not become fake news, which is so popular nowadays with new words. I share the view of the Minister for Justice and Migration that things should be done correctly and that various measures should be taken to make it as accurate as possible, that it is, for example, the right person standing before me. It's good in different contexts. I was thinking about the illegal use of identity that's coming. It is punishable to use someone else's identity. But will it also be punishable to devise a new identity that does not exist? We can always stand and discuss what the previous government did and what the current government does. Now I'm trying to get a constructive conversation so that we can improve the rules so that things can work. Well, then no one's gonna make any money from pie throwing. If you think about how it was in 2010, the problem may not have been as extensive as it is today, given what has happened since 2015.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-32	Mr President, I would like to We are introducing legislation on illegal use of identity last year. I believe it entered into force on 1 July 2016. It refers precisely to the access of those who take over the identities of others. That's how it works. What is the new civil record crime that there is now a proposal to get to, I think, is exactly what Erik Andersson's father is after. This applies when I use false information and try to pretend to be who I may not be and thus be misbooked. For example, it may be to access benefits, other transfers or money from our welfare systems. It's supposed to be criminal to do that. I therefore think that we should proceed with that part of Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén's proposal. Even though we have to wait for the consultation bodies, there is still a lot to do to make such a change. We should also make a change with regard to the Swedish Tax Agency's access to data from other authorities. There should be more direct access so that you can directly go in and look into other registers. It is even the case that those who do public records at the Swedish Tax Agency do not even have access to the Swedish Tax Agency's own registers in tax matters. There are also internal walls that I think you have to look at if they are to remain. I think we all benefit from the fact that authorities have a little more opportunity to access each other's information. It is important today to combat this type of crime. It has been a problem for a long time. To be perfectly honest, Erik Andersson, I think it grew during the bourgeois period. It opened the door to cheating welfare benefits for criminals in a way that had not been seen before. I do not know if Erik Andersson has read what Expressens Anna Dahlberg wrote about this about a year and a half ago in a editorial text. There was the entrance that during the bourgeois years welfare systems were opened wide open to cheating and crime. She goes through everything that you did then where you didn't really know how organized criminals could use, for example, the Arbetsförmedlingen's support system and the ROT and RUT deduction. There was far too little control on it but also a large number of other systems. It is against this background that the Swedish Tax Agency requested increased opportunities to enter other authorities' systems in 2010. In 2010 nothing was done, in 2011 nothing was done, in 2012 nothing was done, in 2013 nothing was done and in 2014 nothing was done. In 2015, we appointed Lars ‐ Erik Lövdén, who now simply raises the issue again. We intend to deliver on this issue. We believe that it is extremely important both to combat organised crime and to maintain the legitimacy of the systems that we ensure that we clean up the kind of crime that is trying to get our common tax money.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-40	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll just have to come back and review the information you've come up with that we didn't do anything. I doubt that very much. We can also ask: did the Socialist opposition express that something should be done, or did you vote against the proposals put forward by the government? I can't answer that because I wasn't in Parliament then. I shall come back to that question. We can keep hitting each other. Now I have noted that there is a problem and that needs to be addressed. The whole system is based on trust and that it should be right and proper. Basically, it is about the welfare state's welfare state's welfare state. A crown that goes out incorrectly in grants is a crown that we could have put on the police, school or health care. These are extremely important issues. Mr President, I would like to If I have understood the Minister for Justice and Migration correctly, TV4 has been wrong in its news report that 35% of asylum seekers register different personal data with different authorities. Then let's hope TV4 goes out with a dementia that they've been wrong. Otherwise, it's fake news. I will simply return, Mr President, when I have had to examine exactly what the bourgeois government has done and how the Social Democrats have voted. I doubt that the Social Democrats are as excellent as the Minister for Justice and Migration standing and saying in the pulpit.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-44	Mr President, I would like to It is perhaps no surprise that the opposition doubts that the government's representatives are as good as they claim they are. It is part of the debate itself that we have. My point was only that when you get proposals that you have to do things in order to close gaps, a government should act. This was not done during these years. During these years, there was also some general belief that private companies are always doing well and could never contribute to cheating in different ways. Let me give just one example. When new jobs were created, which is a subsidised employment, no upper ceiling was set for salary payments. One company could hire a caretaker for 50,000 to 70,000 a month, and the majority of the money was received from the state as a subsidy. One of the first things we did when we took office was to set a ceiling of $25,000. There must be nothing beyond that. This was just one example. We also have the ROT and RUT deductions, on which there was far too little control. There were also other types of measures that simply meant that you did not have proper control of the situation. That's why we set up the investigation. We want to ensure that we can put forward proposals that allow us to close the gaps that various criminals exploit. So I'm talking about criminals. Don't just think about asylum seekers here, because this is mainly about organised criminals. This has nothing to do with asylum seekers. It is a question of plugging into what has been used in various ways. Here are proposals for a new classification for civil records offences, direct access for the Swedish Tax Agency to other authorities, home visits and a wide range of other proposals. It is a high priority from the government, and we will proceed with this to the Riksdag.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-50	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the protected forest is not harvested as a result of the Forest Board's introduction of a break for all inventory and delimitation of key biotopes in north-west Sweden. Furthermore, Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to resume the inventory and registration of key biotopes as soon as possible. Let me begin by saying that the Government's forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental and production objectives. There is a need to develop both of these elements. I note that the reactions to the Swedish Forest Agency's break regarding the identification and delimitation of key biotopes in north-west Sweden have been strong. The decision on the pause is the Authority's own decision. The government has formulated ambitious targets for biodiversity and forest protection. Key biotopes are important in this context.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-54	Mr President, I would like to On 13 March, the Swedish Parliament Administration sent my interpellation about the pause of inventory and the registration of key biotopes to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. I then received a reply from Mr Bucht to the effect that the interpellation debate would take place in this House on 25 April. But this debate put Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht on short notice. The reason was then that the preparation is ongoing and that it wanted to come back with a more comprehensive answer. Mr President, I would like to I have now waited nine weeks for the debate to take place. This is a very important issue. We know that the parliamentary order states that an interpellation should be answered within two weeks. I had to wait nine weeks, moreover, with a suspended debate. The paper in my hand is the Minister's answer to me – not even an A4 page. It does not contain a single answer to my questions. I think that is beneath any criticism, Mr President. This is an important issue. In early March, the Swedish Forest Board decided to stop inventorying and registering so-called key biotopes in an area as large as half of Sweden. A key biotope is an area with very high natural values. Inventing and registering key biotopes is a well-proven and well-established method at Skogsstyrelsen. It is also done by voluntary forces and by forest companies. I would like to say that the key biotope inventory is the most important way we have to get the right factual data to protect more forests. Active use of key biotopes is also a government policy that aims to protect more forests. It should also be remembered that Skogsstyrelsen's work in registering and inventorying key biotopes was a concrete government mission. From 1990 to 1991, the Swedish Forest Board received this assignment. They also received extra money to work with key biotopes. Now the authority has decided that an area as large as half of Sweden – from Värmland all the way up to the north – should be paused. There you should no longer take stock of key biotopes. The forestry board has thus left the whole issue in a large limbo. This has created great uncertainty and indignation among their employees at the Swedish Forest Board, at the union and all the way to the environmental movement, who no longer want to cooperate in the collaboration group to improve the methods. You just feel betrayed. Mr President, I would like to I wanted to know from the responsible minister in this area, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, how the government ensures that the forest and important areas that are worthy of protection will not be harvested during the break. I didn't get an answer. As the origin of the key biotop inventory was a political mission, I also wanted to know whether the Minister will take any initiatives to resume the registration and inventory of key biotopes. I didn't get an answer. You might wonder why. Is it because the Minister knows nothing about these issues? No, I don't think so. I think the Minister deliberately chooses to put his head in the sand. I think that is serious when so much is at stake in such an important area as the forest.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-62	Mr President, I would like to I am the first to regret that it took time to get an answer. But this is sometimes the case in a democracy when you have to discuss different things. As I said in my reply, this is a government decision. It's not a government decision. Nor is there a government mandate for a systematised key biotop inventory. Mr President, let me give a small background to the concept of key biotope. The concept was invented in 1990 by the Swedish Forest Board and began to be used for two years as an experiment. A systematic inventory was also carried out between 1993 and 1998, when the Swedish Forest Board made inventories of small forestry. The companies made their own inventories during this time. A systematic inventory was then carried out during the years 2001-2006. Since then there has been no systematic inventory. So there has been no such thing for ten years. When a forest owner makes a notification about a felling, the Forest Board conducts an inspection and an inventory. It has been checked to see if there is any reason to register and then it has done so, and it has also provided advice. What happens now in the pause is that the registration itself is not carried out, but is supervised and advice is provided. Of course, a decision can also be made that there needs to be protection. It is also a question of finding relevant and legally sound methods. Already in the 90s the method was questioned because it was not considered to fit everywhere in Sweden. It looks very different in Swedish forests, not least in northwest Sweden. Therefore, the Swedish Forest Board has made these decisions. Approximately 50 000 – 60 000 logging notifications are received each year. We should remember that the Swedish Forest Board does not make inventories of all these, but it is only a few percent that they go in and make inventories of – up to 2 000 per year. It is based on having an overview of these areas, and then it has done so. What you now have to do is find a more relevant method that is better suited for north-west Sweden, for the method that you have continues to use in the rest of Sweden but not there. During the break, until the end of the year, one should find a method. The fact that this issue has been addressed by the Swedish Forest Management Board is good, because there are problems with the method that has existed. It has not been relevant and legally secure. It is important to act as an authority in such a case. Then they have made a petition to the government for another SEK 5 million in order to double their supervision in northwestern Sweden during the time they are working to develop a new method. The government has not yet taken a position on this issue.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-70	Mr President, I would like to I think Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht forgets an important part of his history here. I share it in general, but there have been long periods when key biotopinventory has not been actively carried out. We should remember that the basis for this was a political mission to the Swedish Forest Board. The minister responsible may correct me if I am wrong, but was it not the case that the government then gave the task to Skogsstyrelsen in 1990 to start work on key biotop inventory? They started in Norrbotten, but gradually, just as the Minister was also involved, they extended the work to larger parts of Sweden and then to do so throughout Sweden. It is a method that has been constantly evolving, one might say. I have full respect that not all methods are perfect in all areas, but should you throw the baby out with the bath water? Should you just throw away a method that still appreciates and works, even by the Swedish Forest Board's own employees? We have seen, for example, that the trade union ST has asked the Director General of the Swedish Forest Board to resume the inventory and registration. It is a matter of political responsibility for these issues. Just as the government itself says, the key biotopes are the most important basis for us to be able to protect forests by creating reserves and so on. There we agree that more money is needed, and we have allocated more money in the budget. But if you do not know what is in the forest and if you do not know where the really protected forests are, is not the risk obvious, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that important forest will be harvested? Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht now says that they continue with the inventory of key biotopes. That's right. The Forest Board made such a move. But what should you do with what you are inventorying in northwest Sweden, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht? The Swedish Forest Agency has said that it will not delimit and register the new key biotopes that you will find. I also wonder what happens to the availability of this information. On the home page The gems of the forest that the Swedish Forest Board is responsible for, among other things, key biotopes – you can find them on a map. But now that you no longer enter that information and do not delimit and register these areas, we are losing the public aspect of the matter. People are no longer to know where the valuable forest is. It is clear that there is a political responsibility for this, and that is why, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, I want you to put your foot down on this issue and get your head out of the sand. Ultimately, it is about our environmental quality objectives, such as living forests and rich plant and animal life, which are at risk if we do not know where the key biotopes are. It is about protecting forests not being allowed to be harvested, as the government usually repeats all the time, and that this was ultimately a political mission to the Swedish Forest Board. If this method is now withdrawn, I think that the policy must act to ensure that the objectives are achieved. Isn't it supposed to be like that?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-76	Mr President, I would like to It is true that it was a political mission in 1990. But then we got a new forestry policy in 1993, when forestry got a completely different responsibility for this. Then it's like this, Jens Holm, that there are 50 000 – 60 000 logging reports every year, and it's about 2 000 that you do this supervision on. So there is always a risk of felling the wrong forest. There is always that risk, for it is unreasonable to do this supervision of 50 000 – 60 000 logging notifications annually. I think Jens understands that. I have no reason to question the exercise of authority. The Authority considers that the method is not legally secure or relevant and that a new method must be developed that is legally secure and relevant. As a minister, I do not intend to question the exercise of authority, nor do I have the right to do so. The total forest land in Sweden is 28 million hectares. About 31 % of this is excluded from forest production. We have different types of protection: biotop protection, nature reserve, voluntary provisions, consideration areas left during felling and unproductive forest land. Then it looks different over the country. The most exception to production is in northern Sweden where 37 per cent of the total forest stock is the exception. We will also see this if we look at statistics on logging and growth. The annual growth in Swedish forests is 130 million cubics, and felling is 90 million cubics. So there is a range of 40 million cubics that are not harvested. It is quite natural because we have excluded large parts of the forest area from production. Nearly 9 million hectares of forest, 8.7 million hectares, are excluded. If you look at how the forest has evolved over a longer period, Jens Holm, you can see that our overall forest supply in a hundred years has increased from 1.7 billion cubics to 3.2 billion cubics. So it's almost a doubling. It's no wonder this has happened. In fact, Sweden was one of the first countries in the world to set up a forestry law. We already did that in 1903, and that law said that if we fell a tree, we will plant at least two new ones. Sometimes we even plant three or four new trees for each tree we fell. We have taken great account when we have managed our forest, but consideration can of course develop and become even better. The forest has meant a great deal when it comes to developing Sweden's welfare country. I go a long way when I go to the flight between Karungi and Luleå, and then I see the log cars by c have passed and think: There we get elderly care, there we get childcare and there we get school. This is the case, for the forest generates an annual surplus of 130 billion in exports. Then we must also see that the forest is extremely important to cope with the climate. It is a climate engine and also an engine for jobs and growth. I hope that the Left Party also stands for the values of climate, growth and jobs in the forest. There are 60 000 direct jobs in the forest and forest industries and 200 000 jobs with spill-over effects. We need to find a balance in how we use all the values of the forest. It is, of course, a question of protecting biotopes that are worthy of protection. It is very important that we do so, but we must have a balance in this, and there is also a broad political consensus that we should protect an additional 150 000 hectares and 200 000 hectares of voluntary provisions.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-86	Mr President, I would like to It was good that we got black and white from Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht that it was ultimately a political mission from the government to Skogsstyrelsen to work with the registration and inventory of key biotopes. If it was then originally a political mission from the government, I also think that the responsible minister in the government should ensure that it actually continues to work in such a way that forests can continue to be protected and no decent forest is harvested. I think there is an obvious risk that this can happen now, because what we know nothing about we risk losing. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says that it is important to develop new methods. I can agree with that. But if the police are going to develop new methods to combat drunk driving, the police will not stop altogether, from one day to another, stopping cars on the road and letting drivers blow to check whether they have been drinking or not. You continue with what you have until you have found a complementary and better method. Then, of course, you introduce it. I think it is the same with regard to this. You can't just throw a well-proven, well-processed method overboard and then say: We will develop a new method. If so, when will the new method arrive? Does Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht know anything about that? I think this is a lack of knowledge. There are a lot of talented employees at the Swedish Forest Agency who are on the field and survey and find important, unique areas with great biodiversity. They may not then delimit it or register it. It's strange. Here you have a political responsibility, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Just as you were on, it was ultimately a political mission. Then you must act.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-91	Mr President, I would like to It was a political decision by the government 27 years ago, about an attempt over two years. I agree that it was that way. It was 27 years ago, and it was about an attempt over two years. There is no formal mission from the government to work on these issues. It's been tried. The Forest Board has also made breaks earlier, in the years since it was first made. I have full confidence that the authority will handle this in a wise and good way. I have full confidence that they will well develop a relevant and legally secure method. Officials should not have to stand out there in nature and do not really know how to do such a delimitation properly. It is important that we give those who are working on these issues the opportunity to do so. Maintaining biodiversity is fundamental, and it is important that we have it at an acceptable level. But I think we also need to start thinking a little bit, Jens, about how we use the forest's total benefits. For us to get away from fossils, more biomass is needed. To enter a new bio-based economy, biomass is needed. And biomass is in the forest. A growing forest is also very good for the climate and takes down CO2 so that it splashes about. We're also here to protect the forest. And we have said, in democratic order, that we should protect another 150 000 hectares. We will also try to protect 200 000 hectares on a voluntary basis. It is very important that we discuss these issues and find common ground. There, the Forest Programme, which we are working with now, is an important part for it to benefit the forest in a good way for Sweden's future.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-98	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to strengthen the work against illegal predator hunting. I would like to start by pointing out that I take illegal hunting very seriously. It's a crime that can lead to imprisonment. It is the judiciary that is responsible for investigating and intervening against criminal activities. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the overall responsibility for the implementation of Sweden's game management policy. In turn, the animal administration is regionalised to county administrative boards, which appoints hunting supervisors and conservation guards. It is the Police Authority that issues detailed rules for the work of these officials. In this context, I would also like to highlight the responsibilities of hunters. For a number of years, the government has been providing funding from the Wildlife Conservation Fund to combat, among other things, illegal hunting of large predators. The government is committed to long-term sustainable predator management. It should be adaptive and take into account both the opportunities and challenges of predators, not least in rural areas. Swedish carnivores should achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status, according to the Species and Habitats Directive, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. Hunting is an important issue for many in rural areas. Illegal hunting damages the predators, which in turn affects the scope for future license hunting. It also harms the public perception of hunting, which in itself is a problem because hunting is an important part of long-term sustainable game management. The government is continuously working to improve confidence in predator policy. For a faster, more efficient and more equal decision-making process, matters and targets for hunting large predators are now to be dealt with promptly and decisions on such hunting are appealed to the Administrative Court in Luleå. In order for the courts to be able to review any appeals against decisions on the hunting of wolves before the start of the hunt, such decisions may now be taken by 1 October at the latest. During the term of office, the government has also increased funding for measures by over SEK 20 million to prevent predatory damage. As Minister for Rural Affairs, I am keen to participate in dialogues and discussions on hunting, on our predators and on the value of long-term sustainable predator management. It is important that people in rural areas have confidence in the policy that has been decided.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-106	Mr President, I would like to This is another important issue to be debated today. The single biggest reason why our predators die is, in addition to natural causes, probably illegal hunting. It is good that the Minister says that it is unacceptable, criminal and something to be combated. We are in complete agreement on that. Despite this ambition and the fact that it has been stated many times, there is unfortunately nothing to suggest that illegal hunting has decreased in Sweden, rather the opposite. According to researchers I refer to in my interpellation, there may be as many as 50 wolves killed in poaching in Sweden every year. About 10 percent of the golden eagles in Sweden, which you cannot hunt, have lead hail in them. Why is that? It is most likely someone who has tried to shoot them down. Despite this, very few are convicted for hunting crimes in Sweden. It's barely a conviction a year. Some say that parts of Sweden are lawless in this area. People can go hunting and know that nothing will happen. There is a lack of supervision, and if there is a complaint, the law enforcement authorities still find it difficult to lead this in evidence and get a conviction. Quite a lot more needs to be done. I agree with the ambition of the Minister's response. I can tell you that much. But I don't think he's picking out the sharpest knives in the box when it comes to this incredibly serious social phenomenon. There are a few things I would like to raise with the Minister. If more people were to supervise hunting and game management, we would probably be better able to curb poaching. Today, almost 90 people are employed by our county administrative boards and are in the field doing checks. Some counties do not even have a single hunting supervisor – in an entire county. So there are big black spots on our map. Can we get more hunting supervisors working in the field, Sven ‐ Erik Bucht? Would it be possible to finance it by means of an extra fee on the hunting card, so that it can be from $300 today to $500? Can we finance more hunting overseers in this way? The Minister also mentioned that the hunting organisations have received money from the Wildlife Conservation Fund to combat poaching. I would like to know whether the Minister has carried out any analysis of the effectiveness of that work. There is a lot of money that the hunters' organisations receive every year, over SEK 50 million, but I do not know if the result is the very best. Can we also ensure that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is given a concrete assignment to work against poaching? Concrete targets can be set for reducing illegal hunting. What does Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht think about that?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-114	Mr President, I would like to I don't understand Jens Holm calling for sharp knives. I guess they're sharp knives that you use when you're doing illegal hunting. I don't believe in any sharp knives to limit illegal hunting. There are very few reports of illegal hunting in our country, unfortunately. There are also few who are convicted, unfortunately. These aren't simple things. Even if we double the number of monitors, there would be problems. I live out in the woods, so I know for myself how large areas it is where there are very little people. This applies not only to the north, but also to the forests of Central Sweden and southern Sweden. We all have a responsibility to make a report, even Jens Holm and I when we are out in the woods and land, if we see anything suspicious. This is a very serious crime. Rough hunting crime can lead to prison for up to four years, and that's how it should be. We need to stop this. But then we must also take responsibility. We can't always say it's someone else's fault. In fact, I want to abolish Swedish something elseism. We all have a responsibility for this. Swedish nature and forests are vast. Only hunters and no one else pay a game - $300 a year. It's not tax money. Perhaps we should consider contributing to this, because it is not just hunting that is at stake. This is about wildlife conservation, taking care of injured animals and more.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-119	Mr President, I would like to Oops, that answer was quick to leave. I asked a lot of questions, but I got very few answers. Sharp knives were a metaphor, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. A metaphor is an image that is sometimes used in the language. It means nothing but that. What I want is simply more measures to be taken against poaching. I mentioned a number of concrete examples. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht then answers that we all have a responsibility to report in case of suspicion of hunting crime if you see something like that in the forest and land. The Minister is quite right, but I think it is a little strange with a minister who wants to transfer the whole responsibility to the individual. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, you are responsible for these questions. You can do a lot. That is why I raised this debate. I want to know if there are more concrete measures going on when poaching does not go down in Sweden, but rather increases. More action is needed. I'll start with the hunting card. It costs 300 kroner, and it brings quite a lot of money to the state. Most of it gets the hunters' organisations back. The Minister mentioned that hunters' organisations receive subsidies to work against illegal hunting. Has the Minister made any evaluation of the effectiveness of that work? Is there any way to tighten it up? Or are there other organisations that can get money from the Wildlife Conservation Fund to work against illegal hunting? How does the Minister view the proposal that more hunting officers should be added to our forests and lands? When I last counted, there were 87 employees of the county boards. There are several counties that do not have a single employed hunting supervisor in the field. This applies, for example, to Värmland, which is a large forest landscape with a lot of wild animals. The Minister says that everyone has a responsibility to report, but that there are far too few notifications. Perhaps it is one of the solutions, that there will be more supervisors on the ground working on these issues. Then I also know that there are conservation guards and others who are not employed by the County Administrative Board. They also do important work, but they are not full-time employees. Can we have more supervisors in the field? That was my question to the minister. I also had a question about whether the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency could be given a mandate to work against illegal hunting, to make regular searches of this issue and to come up with concrete proposals for action. Can we also set concrete targets as we do in many other areas, for example that in five years' time the illegal hunt in Sweden will be halved and in ten years' time there will be zero vision and there will be no illegal hunting at all? Could it be a good method to work with? I'm also thinking of police and prosecutors. Is it possible to make sure that they are working more actively on these issues? The few who work with hunting crimes do a fantastic job, but I get the feeling that they are underfunded and that they are too few. Then perhaps we should intervene from politics. Or what does the Minister think? Now it is actually time to answer the questions, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-131	Mr President, I would like to Now I'll answer it one more time. I don't do any otherism. We – you and I too – all have a responsibility when we move in nature. There are very few complaints coming in. We won't blame anyone. Everyone has a responsibility, of course also authorities. The hunters' organisations have assignments, and we follow them up every year. Even hunters' organisations find it difficult to cope with this. It's not easy. It's about very large spaces. The illegal hunters are also aware of how to avoid detection. It's not that simple. It's easy to stand in the speaker's chair and talk about this, Jens Holm. I know for myself. I'm a lot out in the woods. It is important that we all take responsibility if we see or suspect a hunting crime. As a minister, I am not responsible for law enforcement. The police are in charge of investigations and law enforcement. Hunting supervisors are appointed by the county administrative boards and regional authorities. It's the police department that's setting the rules. There is also a discussion about order and order in the legal hunt. If you don't, the illegal hunt increases. There may be a lot in it. When we took office as a government, there was great disorder, not least during the license hunt for large predators and wolves. A lot of effort had to be put on it to get things together in the hunt for wolves. And we've done that now. Now there is a administrative court in Luleå that handles these matters. The Board of Appeal is the Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall. The decisions must be taken in time by the county administrative boards, no later than 1 October. The Court of Justice shall also deal with the cases as a matter of urgency. It has begun to become order in the license hunt for large predators. It's important to have order. In fact, it may have the effect on the illegal hunt that it is decreasing.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-136	Mr President, I would like to Of course we all have a responsibility. But you and I, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, we are politicians. Is it not the case that politicians with power – especially if you are a minister responsible for this area – have extra responsibilities? I think the Swedish people are fully aware that if you see a crime being committed, then you report it to the police. It is so obvious that we do not even have to spend time repeating it. But what I think people want to hear from us is if we act against the illegal hunt, which does not decrease in Sweden but rather increases. There may be as many as 50 wolves killed every year in poaching. This is an incredible number. I think that we are at the heart of the debate here. Better supervision is likely to be needed. The hunting supervisors and conservation guards that exist today are doing a very important job, but they may need more colleagues so that they can work more proactively and curb these problems before they arise. Does Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht think it would be good if we had more supervision, more hunting supervisors and more conservation guards? Yes or no? Does Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht think it would be good if the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was given a concrete assignment to work against poaching? Yes or no? Does the Minister think it would be good if we set concrete targets for reducing illegal hunting? Yes or no? I think it is time, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that we get a clearer leadership on the issue and do not roll over the responsibility to anyone else. After all, decisions are made by us in this House.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-141	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure a lot of people will report these crimes if they discover them. But, Jens Holm, many times they are very difficult to discover. So it's out in nature, and you have to understand it. These are large, vast areas. I know what it looks like out there. It is not easy to detect such things. But I think if you discover something, you usually make a complaint. Moreover, when these crimes are discovered, there may have been a long time. This is also not easy for the police to investigate. It is difficult to lead in evidence that one person or another has done this. That's it. We must, of course, have more resources. We have said, among other things, that we need more police resources in this country in order to investigate and prosecute criminal activities. Perhaps there is also a need for more hunting supervisors, but I do not think that this will solve the problem of the large, vast area in question. For hard to detect crimes like these, we all need to be very observant. I also believe that hunting policy needs order, and it has not been. When there is no order in hunting policy, things happen out in society that may cause the illegal hunt has increased, which you are now addressing, Jens Holm. It is good that you have raised the issue, because it is important. It's about serious crimes, and they're going to be tried hard. The penalties for serious hunting crimes, not least for large predators, are high. There's up to four years in prison, and that's how it should be. I also hope that we can get things sorted out in this area so that illegal hunting is reduced. Of course, all the authorities have a duty to ensure that democratic decisions are followed and that the policies established by democracy are also implemented in reality, including the prosecution of illegal hunting.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-147	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me whether it is my intention to initiate a ban on trawling in Sweden. I note that, since 2004, there has been a general ban on trawling in the waters over which Sweden alone rules. This applies within the so-called trawl line, which runs three to four nautical miles off our coast. On the basis of an assessment of the impact of fishing on ecosystems, certain derogations from the ban have been made. These derogations apply to more selective and gentle trawl nets, subject to conditions granted by the Agency. Outside the trawl line, fisheries are regulated by agreements with our neighbours and by the EU's common fisheries policy. Certain fishing practices, such as bottom trawling, can have a negative impact on species and habitats that are protected. The Maritime and Water Authority has therefore assessed that, in a first phase, it is appropriate to regulate fishing in six marine protected areas outside the trawl line. In June 2016, Sweden, together with Denmark and Germany, submitted a proposal for fisheries regulations in the marine Natura 2000 area of Bratten. The regulations were adopted by the European Commission in September. From January this year, therefore, rules will apply which limit both trawling and other fishing activities in the area. The County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management continue to develop proposals for fisheries regulations in the marine protected areas where there is a need. Within the framework of EU cooperation, the government continues to work towards sustainable fisheries and achieving the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy. As the responsible minister, I will also continue to work for more sustainable fishing methods and tools. In recent years a lot of work has been done in Sweden to adapt the gears to become more selective and to develop alternative fishing methods. It is important that this work continues, and it has broad support in the fisheries sector. Our line is that regardless of the fishing method, we will ensure that the jobs in coastal fishing remain and that fishing is sustainable in the long term. This is a policy that has a broad foundation in Sweden, and the government maintains this direction.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-152	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank you for your reply, but it did not make me much wiser because I did not really get an answer to my straight question. I am already aware that there are significant areas here in Sweden that have a general ban on trawling. I also know that there are exceptions to these bans and that Sweden has more selective and gentle tools than many other countries. However, my direct question was about the Government, with reference to a recent Social Democrats Congress' decision in Gothenburg, wanting a total ban on trawling, which was actually reached there. Are you going to take such an initiative from Sweden? Sweden has, as you know, been at the forefront of gentle and selective fishing gears. We have also allocated a number of areas where there is a ban on trawling. When one of our youngest national parks, Kosterhavet in northern Bohuslän, came into being, a unique agreement was reached where all parties, including the fishermen, were involved in deciding on a prudent estimate of our shrimp and fish resources. In this way, Sweden has been a pioneer country when it comes to fishing more environmentally friendly. Therefore, I was more than surprised when the Social Democratic Congress in Gothenburg – against its leadership, to be said – chose to vote through a total ban on trawls. The consequences of such a decision, when the government party Social Democrats go out on such an issue, are so great that I simply had to raise the matter with the Government. This affects my home district of Bohuslän in a special way. Will the Government propose measures or prepare Sweden for a total trawl ban on both fish, shrimp and crayfish?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-157	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to Lars-Arne Staxäng's question. I became interested in the interpellation, among other things, because I live on the west coast, where the Social Democrats have never been very strong. I am thinking about how you in the Social Democrats thought when you decided on a total ban on bottom trawling in Swedish waters. You write that you want to promote a total ban throughout the European Union. What were you thinking? The Minister will be happy to answer that. Then you have joined the Green Party and the Left Party. You are, as it were, a triumvirate that will push the issue of a total ban on bottom trawling in Swedish waters. We know, as the Minister has replied and as Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has said, that there is a ban four nautical miles out from the coast – that is about seven and a half kilometres out. There is the ban, and there are protected areas. But those that bottom trawl outside that area fish among other things shrimp. The Minister is welcome to explain to me: How to fish shrimp without using bottom trawls? 100% of shrimp fishing is done with bottom trawls. That's it. I have heard that someone from the Minister's party has had a different view of it, which is very strange, because this is the truth. Fishing with bottom trawls outside this area has been going on for 100 years. You fish in the same place year after year, because there are live fish there. There's shrimp and crayfish. And there are demersal fish, like cod. You don't pull a trawl through corals and the like, because then you risk destroying the trawl-- that's how it is. You keep coming back to the same area. There was news last night. Denmark spends 1 billion on developing fisheries. One billion is being invested in developing selective trawls and all that is about fishing in Denmark. The government is now moving in the opposite direction. If what you want to go through in Parliament, Swedish fishing will be dismantled. Of course, young people will not invest in professional fishing. There are far too few who are doing it now. But even fewer will bet if you can't pull with the bottom trawl. In Sweden there are those who develop trawls, just as the Minister has replied. That's right. We have the Nordic Fishermen's Association in Smögen. We also have one of the world's leading inventors and trawlers, called Stig Rune Yngvesson. He has six patents on tools, and everyone has come into production. You'd watch that. You would look more at the selective, not ban. One would look more at how to develop fishing, as the Danes do, not dismantle it.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-165	Mr President, I would like to Thus, since 2004, there has been a ban on trawls within the trawl line. That is why our party board proposed that this motion be considered to be answered. The ban is there. Then there are exceptions for fishing. Approximately 14 per cent of the total water in Sweden has exceptions, where trawls are allowed to be used. I have no reason to doubt the authorities' decision on those exceptions – certainly not. Fishing is an important part, not just for the Bohus coast. Fishing is important for the entire coastline of our elongated country. I myself know what it is like in the Gulf of Bothnia, where you trawl for vendace and where you get the gold of the sea, Kalix löjrom, which I think the gentlemen have tasted with pleasure. At least I did. There are not many alternatives for rice fishing, as mentioned by Lars-Lars-Arne. There are very few options for catching, for example, crayfish and shrimp– that's it. Then it is important that we nevertheless take the necessary measures to protect sensitive species and habitats. I assume that the Alliance shares that view. We have to give some areas protection, as we did in Bratten. I don't know if you're against it, but I don't think you're against doing it. It is an ongoing work to make such improvements. Roland mentioned companies on the west coast. In fact, I have visited the companies that work with these selective tools. They're doing an amazing job. This government has allocated 38 million precisely to work with selective tools to improve this. In this way you can also protect the bottom environment, which in many pieces can be very sensitive. There is reason for us to continue to work with this type of effort.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-169	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware that scientific research has shown that trawling can damage the bottoms. There is no doubt about it. But the question is much more complex than that. There are essentially three types of bottoms. There are hard bottoms, which may well be stone shaped. There are sand and gravel bottoms. And there are clay bottoms. Of these, the hard bottoms are the most sensitive – and the vegetation there is. But it is also the most sensitive place to put trawls. You can damage the trawl there. On the contrary, the sand and gravel bottoms often feel good from the trawling. According to one of the researchers, whom I personally know, biologist Hans Hallbäck from Bohuslän, it is perfectly possible to trawl without damaging the bottoms if it is done in the right place and with the right gear. I have a great deal of respect for him, who has 40 years of experience in these matters, unlike many, if I am to be honest, desk officials at the Maritime and Water Authority. If the Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, were to implement a total ban on trawling in Sweden, this would have major consequences for Sweden, especially for the west coast areas. Apart from not being able to get Swedish shrimps, crayfish and flatfish, this would remove a lot of jobs in several ways. As if that were not enough, it would also be devastating for tourism and indeed also for the restaurant business, not least in Bohuslän. It would be devastating for Sweden as a tourist nation. I note what Minister Bucht says about the fact that good fishing methods and gentle fishing gear are to be used together with the rest of the EU and in cooperation with the fishing industry. There are no differences of opinion. On the other hand, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and his party, the Social Democrats, have frightened the fishing industry, the fishermen and many more quite properly with this decision. This is what I want a clear answer to today: does the Government intend to propose an investigation into banning trawling in Swedish waters – yes or no? I welcome the Government's intervention that whitefish and roe are important in the north. I'll buy that. But it's just as important with the shrimps in the west. Then perhaps the Government will understand my heart and my feeling on this matter.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-174	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says that the party board had informed Congress that the question would be considered to be answered. That means leaving the issue behind. If it works in the Social Democracy as it does in the vast majority of other parties, the party should nevertheless comply with the decision made by the Congress. This means pursuing this decision. I don't know if you're slipping in any way so you can avoid it. I am convinced that the Minister does not want this ban – that is the case. But the Minister must respond as the Minister does here. I understand that there are concerns on this issue. What has been expressed in this debate has been that bottom trawling would be like doing some kind of logging of forests, so that it would be like a clearing house. I know that the Minister is at home in the woods and fully understands this, but it is not a fair picture. This is exactly what Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng is talking about here. When it comes to the bottoms of the sea, it is more like agriculture. Bottom trawling can be compared to agriculture. In a way, it is touched in the earth, but it is not harmed, and in this case it is not. The serious thing, however, is that in Denmark 1 billion is now being invested in developing fishing, while the Social Democrats, together with the Left Party and the Green Party, want to dismantle Swedish fishing. I'm very sorry to hear that. Young people lose interest, and we see no future if this should go through.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-177	Mr President, I would like to The shrimps in the west are good. Last Tuesday I was in Gothenburg and ate a nice shrimp sandwich. It was amazingly good even if it doesn't beat the sichrome. It doesn't, but it's good! I also met representatives of the fisheries industry and had discussions about the development of selective gear. I have to say that the fishermen in Sweden are a fantastic profession that for a long, long time has been working on developing selective tools. Don't make comparisons with Denmark, and I don't have to say it! We have amazing fishermen in our country. I promise you, there's a difference. Then I haven't said too much. We are also working very hard from Sweden to pursue these issues within the EU. There is resistance in the EU on these issues. It is not always that simple, but I am very proud of the initiative of the Swedish fishing industry when it comes to adapting the tools to environmental conditions. This adaptation promises very good for our coastal fishing. There is no general ban on trawls in the EU and we have an exception to the ban on trawls in Sweden. Of course, the authorities continue to look at whether further restrictions are needed when it comes to sensitive bottoms. I can't answer that today, because I don't have that knowledge. I fish myself, not with the bottom trawl, but with old coal cuckoo in the river. It is chained to the bottom, and I know that you must also be careful not to destroy the bottom of the river.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-182	Mr President, I would like to We've been discussing some really interesting issues. We have discussed fishing and its methods, whether we have good, selective methods and whether we should have a total ban on trawling. But I have not really received an answer to the question that I put in the interpellation, namely: will the Social Democrats work for a total ban on trawling? Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht talks about a lot about fishing. There's a lot I can agree with. I agree that we have very good fishermen in Sweden. I agree that we are at the forefront of selective gear also in the trawl area. But I do not get an answer if the Social Democrats will work for a complete ban on trawling. I already know that we have a general ban on trawls within a number of miles. We all know that. But that is not the answer to my question. There is much to be done in fisheries, not least in terms of simplification. If you have been on the fishing boats out on the West Coast, you will notice what control apparatus it is today compared to the 70s, when I was young, and I am actually horrified. I understand that there must be rules and action programmes, but it is more reminiscent of the old Eastern system than of old fishing. We must have rules, but it must not be the case that you shoot with the large shotgun just to fulfill a certain purpose. Then we destroy our fishing, and then in a few years we will have no Swedish fishing. We will possibly import Danish or Norwegian shrimp and so on, but we will not have our own fishing. I don't want to come there. Answer the question, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht : Will there be a total ban on trawling?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-188	Mr President, I would like to The Eastern state system, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, is not known for a particularly sustainable fishing, so we probably do not want to imitate that. Bottom trawling can have negative effects on the environment. I think we all agree on that. But what effect the trawling has depends, as Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng was on, of course, on the bottom, how it is trawled and what type of gear you have, and therefore it is so very important that we constantly have gear development and that we allocate money. We have done so, 38 million, and so there are also funds available from the Fisheries Fund to take further steps in developing the tools. Then it may be that we need to regulate further if we find that somewhere there are sensitive bottoms that cannot do this. Alternatively, we must find new tools so that we do not damage a bottom. It's not a weird policy. That is the policy of this government, and I know that the previous government had a similar policy, so there is no difference. Of course, our knowledge of the ecosystem, fishing and environmental considerations is also constantly evolving. It is a development of knowledge that may require us to act in a different way tomorrow than we did the day before yesterday. That is the case in all areas. That is why we are continuing our efforts to increase the sustainability of fishing, and we are protecting coastal fishing. It is very important, and it is not just about fishing itself. I have also visited the processing industry on the west coast, which is very large and labour intensive. I know how important it is for the West Coast society and also for the tourism industry. Thank you for a good debate!
i-RpcffR8Cma6KD5wv2jGRG4	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman and Sten Bergheden have asked me in each of their interpellations 中 on my assessment of the impact of the current date setting of studded tyres on Parliament's zero vision of the number of road deaths If I am willing to look at the Norwegian example of dating the use of studded tyres to make changes to Swedish legislation If I am prepared to take the initiative for a review of Swedish studded tyres legislation. Furthermore, Edward Riedl has asked me whether I would like to take the initiative to amend the legislation on studded tyres so that it is more adapted to the regional differences in Sweden. As the questions in the three interpellations are similar, I choose to answer them jointly. The government has high ambitions in the area of road safety and has initiated a new start for the zero vision. In September 2016, the Focus Document New Start for the Zerovision was adopted – an intensified work for road safety in Sweden. The new start is intended to serve as a platform for further initiatives in the area of road safety. Trafikverket has also been commissioned to lead overall cooperation in road safety. The rules on dubbing and winter tyres are laid down in the Traffic Regulation. Passenger car, light truck and light bus with a maximum mass not exceeding 3,5 tonnes and trailer towed by these vehicles shall be fitted with winter tyres or equivalent equipment during transport from 1 December to 31 March in the case of winter roads. Winter tires have softer rubber blends and other patterns that give better grip on snow and ice on the road. The Swedish Transport Agency's regulations and general guidelines mean that dubbed tyres may be used between 1 October and 15 April. These tyres, which are a type of winter tyre, may also be used outside this period of time when there is a winter road or it may be feared and this justifies the use of studded tyres. One important reason for allowing studded tyres is to promote the road safety efforts of the zero vision to reduce the number of road deaths and serious injuries. However, the use of studded tyres has negative effects in the form of noise, particulate formation and wear of road installations. Road wear from the use of studded tyres has a negative health impact, as road wear particles cause diseases in the airways and cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, dubbing tyres should not be used more than necessary. Most countries that allow studded tyres have time limits for using studded tyres. It is of the utmost importance that the correct tyres are used in winter roads. The last six months show that there can be rapid cover in the weather. There have been heavy snowfalls in Stockholm at the beginning of November, slippery roads in parts of the country during Easter and a class 2 warning for snow in northwest Svealand and southernmost Norrland at the end of April. Even today, however, studded tyres can be used when winter roads are feared. The current rules therefore provide for flexibility that takes account of different weather conditions. I am no stranger to reviewing today's date rules if it turns out that there is such a need. At the moment, however, no such work is going on. I will continue to follow this issue closely. The continued work on zero vision is a high priority of the government.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-205	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, although I would have expected action instead of talk. Mr President, I would like to I want to put the question of studded tyres and the date of replacement of tyres in a broader perspective. Let me first admit, I love Norrland. If you are born and raised in the beautiful Norrbotten you can only love the mentality as well as the climate and nature north of Dalälven. There are many who have chosen to live in Norrland, and to Norrland I obviously count Gävleborg, although many day commutes to Stockholm to and from Gästrikland. What concerns me is that the government seems to have forgotten Norrland. You are pursuing a policy that is directly counterproductive for all of us who live north of Dalälven. Dates for studded tyres are just one example. I am also thinking of your proposals on mileage taxes, greatly increased vehicle taxes, aviation taxes and shock-raised fuel taxes, which strike rough against both ordinary families, who want the life puzzle to go together, as well as companies whose competitiveness is deteriorating. Mr President, I would like to When reality is not consistent with the intention of a law, reality is the reality. There is a law for the replacement of studded tyres that has had consequences, which probably no one in the Chamber with a driving licence can find acceptable. If the minister got in a car and drove from Malmö to Kiruna, she would discover that it is 184 km and that it takes 21 hours to drive – if the minister were to try to drive in a row. Instead, if the government sat at the wheel and drove the other way, the government would end up in Rome. It is about the same distance and takes about the same time. The tyre law is more adapted for the journey to Rome than for the cold climate that prevails in Sweden. While my former classmate prepared his pool in Malmö there was a full blizzard in Norrland. A train was even snowed into Norrbotten while the legislator had thought that motorists throughout Sweden would have changed tires. Mr President, I would like to It doesn't make sense. A premature date damages road safety in Sweden. There is a 44 percent higher risk of you dying in a friction tyre traffic accident compared to studded tyres. And we want motorists to drive with studded tires when they slip. Having legislation that also fools motorists into changing tyres prematurely and driving in slip with summer tyres is directly devastating. When the police are interviewed in different media they also say that the law creates uncertainty among motorists about what applies. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I received an email from a motorist who had changed tires three times in the spring because of fear of being fined. It's terrible. The date also puts unnecessary pressure on tyre workshops. According to the law, winter tires must be kept until 31 March and then changed to mid-April. This means that the tyre workshops in Sweden have two weeks to change all cars' tyres. It will be a poor working environment with stress, bustle and risk of work injuries for nothing. For example, if the dates mean that the Swedish people have one month to change tyres, both the motorists and the employees at the tyre workshops would be less stressed. Mr President, I would like to So it is too short a period of time today. If there is to be a date at all, it should be a date that is relevant and adapted for Sweden and Swedish conditions. We Moderates are always on human side, and we have a policy for the whole of Sweden regardless of where you live. The logical thing about a law that does not work as intended is of course to set up an investigation and review what improvements can be made. Those of us who have a driver's license and drive a car often know how important it is to have the right tyre on the car. A review of the agenda should also be self-evident to the government and the Minister for Infrastructure.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-215	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which I still think is breathing a certain kind of hope that there may be a review of the legislation. It is just as my colleague Lars Beckman said earlier, namely that Sweden is a large country with varying weather conditions and great distances. There are different conditions for the road network throughout Sweden. It can be summer in Skåne, and there can be pure winter road law in the north. There can also be winter storms and snow storms in both April and May. This means that we can end up in extremely difficult situations from the point of view of road safety. Today, the legislation is such that we will have winter tires between December and 1 March, but there is an opportunity to keep them longer if necessary. It is precisely the need that is difficult to define. Above all, the legislation says that the studded tyres should be removed by 15 April, but even there it is possible to keep the tyres longer if the need exists. Winter tires and studded tyres are primarily a road safety issue. It's about the driver having a safe grip on the winter road team and the road. The studded tyres are necessary in large parts of our country to be able to drive safely. There may be glashala gravel roads in the countryside that may take time to sand and ice gravel. There may be a ploughed road that is not salted and sanded. This means that the road surface can prevail for many days before the problem of slippage can be addressed. Everyone knows this who lives and lives in rural areas all over Sweden and has long distances to work. Therefore, today's studded tyre legislation needs to be reviewed. It is too narrow today and needs to be evaluated. Who can judge what is a winter road team? You can have the winter tires on in southern Sweden, for example Skaraborg, and you need three four days later to go to Norrland, although it is summer road law in Skaraborg. The concern is then that if you are stopped by a police officer in Skaraborg it is difficult to claim that the studded tyres are on because you are going to Norrland in four days. Is it reasonable to change the tyres because there are summer roads in Skaraborg when there are winter roads where you are going? No, it is reasonable to keep the tyres for the traffic needs you need the car for and be able to travel the distance without having to change the tyres back and forth. This is an assessment that is difficult to make. Therefore, the legislation needs to be even clearer and even more space to keep the studded tyres on. Many people are unable to change tyres themselves, and they have to go to a tyre shop or garage and shift the tires. It means a great burden on tyre workshops to perform the job within the specified time. It is also a cost issue to bring in additional staff at temporary work peaks. Does the Minister see the needs and problems that Lars Beckman and I have highlighted? Will the government set up some kind of investigation?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-223	Mr President, I would like to The debate here gives the impression that the government has made changes to the legislation and tightened it up or taken measures to make it miserable for everyone living in northern Sweden. Let me tell Members of Parliament that the legislation has changed. The time allowed to drive with studded tyres was shortened from 1 May to 15 April, but it happened in 2009. Everyone knows which government was then in power. The frontal attack on the current government feels a little over-suspected – cautiously expressed. Nevertheless, there may be reason to revise the legislation, particularly because the weather and technology change over time. Today there are completely different types of tyres than there were just a few years ago. Anti-charge systems have been legal requirements throughout the EU since 2014. There are also trends to an increasing number of weather changes over a long season. However, I would like to correct the gentlemen on two points. It is a good thing when you have a debate like this that you at least start from the right facts. The existing legislation does not prohibit the use of studded tyres after 15 April. You can get that impression both when reading the interpellation and when listening to the debate, but it is allowed to have also studded tires after 15 April or before 1 October if there is or is at risk of becoming a winter road. This means that for those who live in northern Sweden or will travel on roads in northern Sweden where it is winter road law, it is already allowed today with the legislation we have. The second thing that is not true is that you have to take off your winter tires on March 31st. It's not like that. You have the opportunity to drive with winter tires, undubbed winter tires, all year long if you wish. It gives slightly lower road safety characteristics and can increase fuel consumption and have other negative consequences, but it is not prohibited to use winter tyres at other times of the year. I think it is difficult to find dates that work throughout Sweden. We want to limit the use of studded tyres in those parts where they are not needed for the reasons I put forward in my reply. At the same time, it is extremely important that the right tyre is chosen for the road law that prevails. Then you can see that laws and rules are good. Knowing how the laws and rules are designed is even better, and compliance with them is a prerequisite for their functioning. I am not convinced that other dates would solve this problem. I believe that the changes that are taking place, both technological changes – the development of new technologies, tyre types and tyre characteristics, vehicle support and technology support – and the climate changes that we are seeing today may mean that we will have to review these rules. But this broad side from gentlemen Moderates, I think you can spare yourself.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-232	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure the Minister – I am well aware of the legislation and how it works. It was also clear from my speech, as the Minister would have noticed if she had listened to what I said instead of tampering with her phone or whatever she was doing. I did a test before entering the chamber. I met someone on the way here. I told him that I would have this debate and asked the person:
i-aeb8b605412347e5-235	Horn Street! it came lightning fast. There I think the problem is, Mr President: legislation has been adapted and made for Södermalm in Stockholm. I am well aware of which government introduced this. I also said in my speech that although the intentions were good, one must change legislation that does not work. When it comes to particles, the most dangerous place to stay in Stockholm is not Hornsgatan. I am sure that the Minister is well aware that the most dangerous place to be when it comes to particles is Stockholm's subway. The report that I have commissioned the parliamentary investigation service to produce shows that this is where the most dangerous, the most harmful particles are. But I haven't heard the Minister suggesting that the subway be closed. It is interesting – if we are to stick to the facts – that friction tyres, i.e. stud-free tyres, can tear up more particles than studded tyres. It is also the case that the attack on studded tyres is not compatible with Parliament's zero vision for road safety. The risk of dying in a road accident is therefore considerably greater if you drive with dubbing-free tyres than if you drive with studded tyres, especially when you slip. What has happened now and is why we have asked these questions and have this debate is remarkable. The Västerbotten police went out and said: Have you changed to the summer deck, put the car or change back to the winter deck! So the police in Norrland go out and say: If you have changed the deck, put the car! When you receive such information, Mr President, I think it is a minister's duty to adjust a law to reality. I am also well aware – and I know that many motorists in Sweden are aware – that you can drive with your road-safe studded tyres even after 15 April. But the date itself creates a great deal of uncertainty, and ultimately it is an individual police assessment not to fine a motorist. It is this uncertainty, Mr President, that a review of the law would look at. I do not think the Minister meant it, or I hope I misinterpreted it, when she said that you can continue to drive on dubbless tyres all year round. It's directly harmful, dangerous and stupid. You should definitely not do that, because you get significantly longer braking distance. You get a considerably longer brake distance, so if someone understood the Minister's speech as being able to continue driving, I repeat: you should certainly not do that. It's very dangerous, because you get a lot longer braking distance. The best thing you can do as a motorist is to drive with studded tyres in winter – then 44 percent less likely to die in a traffic accident – and switch to summer tyres when such a road law stipulates that you should have summer tires. I would like to repeat Sten Bergheden's question, which I thought was relevant, and I hope that the Minister will reply. When does the minister set up an investigation to review the studded decks, which do not work as intended?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-246	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. As we said, it is possible to have studded tyres even after April 15th. But that's when the assessment comes in. Then it is you as a driver who will make an assessment of whether you can keep the studded tyres legally. It is the police who will make an assessment of whether it is okay to still drive on studded tyres down in Skaraborg at the end of April, when there is summer road law there and you will go to the mountains three days later. That's when you're supposed to prove to the police that you have it as your intention before you get a fine for driving the wrong tire. We want to make it easier for both drivers and police with clearer legal support to be able to use studded tyres until the date when you can decide for yourself that it is summer road law that prevails and to be able to extend that time to the previous one. We also have concerns about the tyre workshops, which have clearly pointed this out. Many people today want to change tyres in order not to drive illegally if there is summer road law. This leads to tremendous stress on tyre workshops, which means that they collect extra labor. It could be labor that doesn't have experience working with tyres normally. This in itself is a safety risk – that you have to pick up labour to cope with the peaks that get extremely high during this period. We need to drive with studded tyres in Sweden, because friction tyres, i.e. the stud-free tyres, would not work in the way that is intended if we did not also have studded tyres, which rub up the roadway and make friction tyres more suitable to use in winter roads. The combination of the two types of tyres is therefore necessary and may be necessary well into April, when winter roads exist in large parts of the country. I'll ask my question again. In his reply, the Minister says, ‘I am no stranger to reviewing today's date rules if it turns out that there is such a need. At the moment, however, no such work is going on. My question must then be: Is this not sufficient? The driver's assessment may cause some kind of doubt. The police testify that this is difficult to judge – you stand by the road and decide whether a motorist drives legally or not when driving on the wrong deck at that time for him to go somewhere afterwards or have been somewhere before. We also know that tyre workshops need more time for this, and we know that there are sometimes workers there who are not fully trained and have to work extra on this, which in itself is a safety risk. We also know that studded tyres may be needed for the friction tyres to work. Is this not reasonable? Is there not the need that the Minister is talking about in his answer? Are we not at the point where we should review this legislation and evaluate whether we should make any adjustments? My question is once again: does the Minister consider that the need exists, and when will the review come? When do we get the answer?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-256	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to be even clearer so that even Lars Beckman understands what I'm saying. It is not forbidden to drive with winter tires all year round, but it is not suitable, which was exactly what I said in my previous post. I am happy to repeat that. If you choose to have a specific date after which it is not allowed to drive with studded tyres, or before which it is not allowed, it is clear that you get about the same result: There will be a accumulation of people who want to change tyres right around that date, no matter when it occurs. It would be interesting to hear whether the Moderates have a concrete proposal for what such legislation might look like instead. When I say that there is a need, it is a question of whether there are any statistics or similar that show that there have been a large number of serious road accidents due to the fact that there has been no use of studded tyres even though there has been a need for it. I do not know any such statistics. The Finnish Transport Administration does not have such a task either. The second is, of course, if it is common for people to be fined for using studded tyres at the wrong time in parts of the country where studded tyres are necessary. I have not seen such statistics either. What I've seen is that there are people who have been fined but got right in court because they made the assessment that it was relevant to use studded tyres. At present, therefore, I do not consider that there is a need, but in view of both technological developments and the climate changes we are seeing, there may be reason to review this a little later on. It should then be done on the basis that there is actually an identified problem, which is not only that three moderate MPs at the same time get inspiration to put interpellations to the Government. It would also be interesting to hear how the gentlemen pushed on in 2009 during the then bourgeois government, when this legislation was amended so that the time was shifted from 1 May to 15 April. Why is it that this insight has come to you only after that?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-262	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure the Minister: my interest in road safety and tyres has been much longer than in recent weeks. It is possible where there is a difference between us who are thinking of road safety and who are behind Parliament's zero vision of road accidents and the Minister, who is obviously not prepared to review legislation that does not work. I can only regret that. I think that we as legislators and the government have an obligation to protect the whole of Sweden, even the mother who gets in the car and should drive her children to practice; she should be able to drive safely. There has been a fantastic development in the road safety of cars: from safety belts to ABS and airbags. There has been a lot of technical progress in road safety. Then it is deeply unfortunate that we have legislation that is counterproductive and that we have a minister who claims to be behind Parliament's zero vision of road accidents and at the same time slanders the most road-safe tyre, namely the studded tyre. Let us make this clear: there is nothing more safe than studded tyres. Then the Minister has not got into the matter, and I regret that. The difference between having two or four weeks to change tyres would be fundamental. I am pleased that the Minister is asking other parties for ideas when she is obviously inconspicuous herself, but the point of doing a review of the law is, of course, to turn all the stones around in order to find legislation that works better than today's. It is not reasonable for the police to go out and warn road users to ask them to put their cars or urge people to change their tires back.
i-aeb8b605412347e5-267	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. In fact, I think that the Minister clearly describes the urgent need for this review. The Minister lists a number of questions: Have there been more accidents? What has happened around this? Is it more dangerous to go without a studded deck? This is exactly what we need to look at. What happened? Even the minister doesn't know. There are no statistics on this, says the Minister. Is it reasonable, then, that, on the basis of these conditions, when we have been using this legislation for a number of years, we should actually carry out an evaluation and look at whether it has really achieved the purpose we intended? If it has caused more accidents, it is serious in itself. We need an answer to this. Not least, the Minister should be fully up-to-date in this debate on these issues. The answer therefore gives the Minister himself: an evaluation is needed, for the simple reason that there is a problem out there. It is perceived as a problem by the police, by those who are going to change the tyres, by the car workshops and by the workers who are temporarily picked up, who may not have enough knowledge to change the tyres, which means that it can be wrong. The answer, I think, is already given by the Minister. Return to the question: Given the needs we have highlighted in the debate today and the government's lack of knowledge on this issue, should we not immediately set up this investigation and review the studded tyre legislation in Sweden?
i-aeb8b605412347e5-271	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate. Road safety is an extremely important issue that the government has high on the agenda. We have also initiated a new start for the zero vision because we perceived that the work was a little lost focus and perhaps gone to the ground. We still have a long way to go before we can say that we have reached the target of zero dead or seriously injured in traffic. There is no statistical link today to show that a number of road accidents could have been avoided if the legislation in this area had been different. This does not mean that there is no knowledge, but that there is no such connection. Nor, as I understand it, is there, even in your opinion, that has made the amendments, which indicate that it is common for people to be fined for using studded tyres after 15 April or before 1 October. Nevertheless, this suggests that the existing legislation is working quite well. Technological developments are taking place today, the development of new types of tyres and, in particular, climate change. The weather changes are faster and more, and it's not just about winter in Norrland and summer in the south, which is the starting point for the interpellations. We can also have winter roads in the southern parts of the country at times when there is normally no place but also bar land in northern Sweden much later than we have been used to. This means that there may certainly be reason to review this, but I see no need to now directly set up an investigation. There is also no such plan.
