i-15050bfb5d531ae5-2	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to examine the report of the Education Committee on the Government proposal on the right of pupils to complete an introduction programme in upper secondary school even if they move to another municipality. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Mr President, I would like to In order to get a job, establish yourself in the labour market or read further, a completed upper secondary education is usually required today. Therefore, the government's goal is also that all young people should start and complete upper secondary education. Students who are not eligible for a national programme can, in an introductory programme of upper secondary school, study subjects that enable them to move on to a national programme, another education or the labour market. The single largest programme within the introduction programmes is language introduction aimed at newly arrived students who need an education based on the Swedish language. During the 2016/17 academic year, there were nearly 36,000 students in the field of language introduction. The School Act clearly states that pupils who have started a national programme within upper secondary school have the right to complete their programme if they move to another municipality. This possibility is more unclear with regard to the introduction programme and, in particular, with regard to young people seeking asylum. The now completed Gymnasie inquiry has pointed out that there is a lack of clarity in the Education Act about the right to complete an introduction program if you move. For asylum seekers young people aged 18 or over, this is particularly problematic because they are not entitled to start upper secondary education after they have reached the age of 18. The investigation suggested that the legal text should be clarified. The Government's proposal therefore now proposes an amendment to the School Act clarifying that a student has the right to complete an introduction programme after moving to another municipality. The right concerns both the initial introduction programme and another introduction programme. The latter is particularly important because an introduction programme is normally only part of a completed upper secondary education. This is a good clarification and a good change of law. It is not reasonable for students to continue their education on an introduction programme after the 18th anniversary to differ if they remain in their municipality of residence or if they move to another municipality. In order to be able to establish yourself in the labour market or to read further, a completed upper secondary school education is required today, and the introduction programme for many students is a very important piece of the puzzle. With this proposal, all students will be sure to continue the introduction program and be able to continue their studies even if they move. This is good. I would therefore like, on behalf of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-9	Mr President, I would like to We have gathered here today to debate and later decide on the right to complete an introduction programme in upper secondary school after moving to another municipality. First of all, I would like to express my support for the proposal that has been drafted on my own behalf, as well as on behalf of the Moderates and the Alliance as a whole. It is gratifying that we can find solutions to practical problems for the young people of Sweden across the block and across party boundaries in this House when needed. In recent years, tens of thousands of young people have come to Sweden after fleeing an impossible life situation and seeking the opportunity to build a better life. In this work, education is the key to integration – not only because all these young people who, despite having got a boring and crooked start in life, will still have a chance to build their own lives but also to enable all of them to be able to fundamentally contribute and build this country stronger in the future instead of getting stuck in an alienation that risks permanentity if the right efforts do not exist. The obstacles which have arisen and which have been highlighted, and which this law alters by this decision, have had disastrous consequences for the individual. It may even have been forced by the state to settle in a municipality other than the one you have been and has not been able to complete the introduction training that you have started or any introduction training other than the one you have started. This obstacle is now being removed and it is necessary to remove it in order to ensure that everyone is able to receive upper secondary education. At the same time, we see that the introduction programme has swelled something huge in recent years. This has not only been done as a result of a large proportion of immigration. We also see many drop-outs from the introduction programmes, not only because you are moving on to other introduction programmes and unfortunately not on to regular upper secondary school studies, but also completely away from upper secondary school. You choose not to get any education at all. This creates enormous problems and challenges for the future. Although the decision that we will take today makes it easier for those who are forced to change or voluntarily change the municipality to be able to complete their introductory training, further efforts and measures are needed to give more of them a chance to complete their introductory and upper secondary education. The Alliance has highlighted a number of priority areas here. The chamber should move on and work with them. It is about getting more educated and competent language teachers. We have proposed that Swedish as a second language should be given as a summer course and evening course, and it should be a compulsory part of teacher education. We have also proposed stronger opportunities for vice-chancellors to make use of priority hourly plans in order for students to have further good opportunities to focus on the basic skills and knowledge necessary to make it through in life and to reduce the number of drop-outs from upper secondary school. We also need, my friends in this House and Mr President, to look at how we can further strengthen vocational education and training so that even those who come to Sweden at a late stage and those who are not, at least right now, interested in acquiring a long education or completing and compensating for a missed primary education are given the opportunity to acquire professional competence. This should be done without them first ending up in exclusion for a few years before municipal efforts are successfully introduced into adult education. We will be calling for the proposal to be approved this afternoon. This is a good change, but more needs to be done.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-17	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I was very pleased to hear the rejection by the majority of the committees of our requests in this report, especially when I see how many of the positions are designed and motivated in such a way that they actually confirm the policy that we in the Swedish Democrats have long advocated. Among other things, we had insisted that it should be clearly stated in the new Administrative Act that Swedish is the language that applies in Swedish authorities. This was rejected as superfluous and so obviously as not to require any further reference to Section 10 of the Language Act or similar. Even the government claims the same thing. Thus one must almost assume that we all agree on the substance of the matter, namely that it must be regarded as all-knowing that authorities and other public bodies in Sweden communicate in Swedish. Perhaps you can accept English as a complement on certain occasions, as it is an internationally available language that is included as a mandatory part of Swedish education. Otherwise, however, we are actually satisfied with this. We look forward to never having to see any forms or brochures in foreign languages like Arabic, Somali or similar in the public administration again. Similarly, the Swedish Democrats, as the only parliamentary party, I believe, have worked for a long time to re-establish a much more far-reaching government responsibility than can be claimed today. Today's rules are largely limited by what is stated in the 20th chapter of the Criminal Code. of errors committed in the exercise of official authority. With these limitations, a lot of other misdeeds can pass unnoticed. However, since the majority of the committee has now stressed the urgency of applying the same legal principles in general, not only in the exercise of authority, I look forward to many and long constructive discussions with the other parties on how we can develop civil servants' responsibilities to cover more than just errors committed in the performance of their duties. The fact that the practice of authority itself is a well-established concept within the Swedish administrative tradition and that even the Constitution indicates a clear difference in significance between the different types of case in an authority's business is of course a completely different issue, and there we obviously have slightly different views. In general, we from the Swedish Democrats may think that it is and perhaps even should be a difference in urgency between when an authority deals with purely routine matters and when the same authority unilaterally takes decisions that express the power of society over citizens and can have negative legal effects on the same and on individuals. If everything is deemed equally important, the logical consequence is that nothing is more important or more essential to focus on than anything else, regardless of what it is about. Furthermore, if everything is to be dealt with in the same way without anything being prioritised above anything else, the logical consequence is that you either have to lower the level of ambition for everything you do or spend much more resources to be able to do everything with the same high quality. This is precisely the point of increasing resources, Mr President, which leads me unsearched into the next question. As is well known, we in the Swedish Democrats support the introduction of requirements, rules, time limits and effective remedies to deal with the long processing times of the authorities. However, we also think that there should be a fairly small proportion of the civil servants who are poaching errands and decisions on pure quarrels. The vast majority of us think we're probably trying to graze the errands that come in a never-ending stream as quickly and well as they can. With the whip and the new additional obligations that the government is now proposing to the authorities, we also expect to ensure that the necessary resources are provided for the civil servants to have a reasonable chance of implementing and fulfilling the new requirements adequately. Here, we might think it would have been nice if the government had been prepared to impose on itself the same deadlines and demands that are now being imposed on the other authorities. This may, for example, apply to the very long processing times – which we in the KU have criticised – when the government acts as the highest administrative authority and is going to decide on an appeal against beach protection cases. Then it could take years. But I understand that the government is not prepared to do so. It may be easier to impose certain requirements on others if you do not have to live up to them yourself. The least one could ask in this context is that we already decide that there should be a scheduled and systematic follow-up of how these new requirements beat, what their consequences are, what they may be, and whether there should be any adjustments or fine-tuning to make it as right and proper as possible for everyone in the long run. Another proposal in the bill that will also take a lot more time and money into use by the authorities is the increased requirement for the authorities to provide more and more of the interpretation and translation of various documents for people in all kinds of cases. On the contrary, we believe that the government should rather work to restrict that right, at least in terms of everyday contacts between authorities and citizens. I think that we can all agree that people who have disabilities or in any way belong to one of our nationally recognised minorities should be entitled to this support. However, this does not apply if it is a person who has been in Sweden for several years and may have failed to assimilate offered Swedish education or similar or who may not even have the right to reside in this country. To invest additional resources in this should rather be directly counterproductive for integration and stand in stark contrast to what I perceived we all agreed on earlier, namely that it is Swedish that applies as a language in our Swedish administrative authorities. Here, however, the respective parties that have supported the rejection of our motion must try to convince their intended voters of the excellence of the fact that this is exactly what we are going to spend even more of our common resources on. I guess I'll have to wish you good luck with that. I support reservations 4 and 5.
i-3bJFCz9HndY4qzi6ZsZKzW	Mr President, I would like to In this report, it is very correct that the KU has dealt with the government's proposal for a new administrative law. The report also proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Administrative Process Act and the Act on appeals against decisions of individual bodies with public administration tasks. The changes in these parts also entail adaptations to the design of the new Administrative Act. As the previous speaker said, it is a majority in the committee that supports the report. The background is that in 1971 we got our first administrative law. It created for the first time a uniform and comprehensive regulation of the procedure by the authorities. Two important starting points for the reform were that the procedural law would be as simple, clear and straightforward as possible and would be generally applicable to as much of the administration as possible. The law was then preceded by many years of investigative work with the main aim of strengthening individuals' legal certainty vis-à-vis the authorities. What was also done was to regulate the handling of cases in the courts in their administrative activities. Since then, the Administrative Act has been revised, but since the entry into force of the 1986 Administrative Act no more radical changes have been made to that Act. It is time, then, for us to have a new reformed and modern administrative law which also further strengthens the legal certainty of individuals. Mr President, I would like to The new law regulates the procedure of the administrative authorities more comprehensively than is currently the case. Certain general principles of administrative law developed in practice are laid down in explicit provisions. The law is thus made, as I see it, more easily accessible. I also see that the new law has a clear citizen's perspective and will, among other things, increase the possibility of speeding up the processing time in order for the individual to be able to make the most of his or her rights. Long deadlines, which we in this House have discussed in the past, are, as is well known, a problem in the public administration. According to the proposal we have had to deal with, there are strong reasons why the Swedish legal order should contain general rules on some form of action against slow handling. One innovation of the law is therefore that citizens can demand that a case be settled more quickly through the introduction of a so-called'suspension action'. Such an action gives a new opportunity to obtain a decision on the case more quickly if the proceedings have been delayed. Any person who has initiated a case may request the Authority to settle the case in writing within four weeks, unless it has been decided at first instance after six months. Within those four weeks, the Authority shall either decide on the matter or reject the request. In such circumstances, it is possible to appeal against such a refusal decision. Mr President, I would like to In addition, the legislative proposal makes the interpretation and translation of documents an explicit right, which is good for solving any communication difficulties that may arise and for avoiding legal losses for the individual. The committee believes that it is important for people who do not master Swedish to have access to interpretation and translation in so far as they are judged reasonable in contact with authorities and health care. The need criterion in the new Administrative Act is based on the individual's ability to take advantage of their rights. Of course, other proposals have also been made regarding the new Administrative Act. For example, a general requirement on the suitability of a party's representative or representative is introduced. There are explicit provisions on the way in which a case is to be initiated and on the responsibility of the authorities. A party's right to be informed about the handling of the case is strengthened. In addition, the reasons for the decisions should be improved. More comprehensive provisions are introduced on when an authority may amend a decision and express provisions on which decisions may be appealed. These are just a few examples that are given.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-33	I look forward to the new Administrative Act, which provides a basic and central structure for contacts between authorities and individuals in case handling. It is important for the public to have a high level of confidence in the responsible and proper management of public administration tasks. In the light of the speech, Mr President, I support the proposal for a decision.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-35	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I support the proposal for a decision. The Constitutional Committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a new Administrative Act. My colleague Emanuel Öz has presented the law in an exemplary way, but I intend to discuss the law a little. The proposal is for the current regulation to be reformed and modernised in order to further strengthen the legal certainty of individuals. It introduces a completely new Administrative Act replacing the 1986 Act, which regulates the procedure of the managing authorities in a more comprehensive manner than is currently the case. Some general principles of administrative law developed in practice will instead be set out in explicit provisions of the law. This will make the new administrative law more accessible than the current one. The new law also requires that a case be dealt with as simply, quickly and cost-effectively as possible, without prejudice to legal certainty, and that the procedure as a general rule be in writing. The party to a case shall in principle have the right to access any material that has been added to the case. Mr President, I would like to A new remedy against slow processing, a form of delay action, is introduced and regulated in the new Administrative Act. This means that a party that has initiated a case may request the authority to settle the case if it is not decided at first instance within six months at the latest. The Administrative Act shall apply, as at present, to the handling of cases by the administrative authorities and to the handling of administrative cases by the courts. Legality, objectivity, proportionality, service and accessibility to the public and interaction with other authorities shall also apply to other administrative activities. It is important for the public to have a high level of confidence in the responsible, efficient and correct performance of the public administration task. The management process should be characterised by a clear citizen perspective with high demands for good service and be as simple, fast and cost-effective as possible without compromising legal certainty. The provisions of special constitutions shall prevail over the provisions of the Administrative Act. In addition, the committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal to amend the Administrative Process Act and the Act on Appeals against decisions of individual bodies with public administration tasks.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-43	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating report KU2 A modern and legally secure administration – a new administrative law. I would first like to say that I support the committee's proposal and therefore reject the reservations. Both Emanuel Öz and Marta Obminska have been into what this is all about, and I will probably repeat a lot here. It is now for the first time in 30 years that we have a new administrative law. It contains basic rules on how administrative matters should be dealt with in our authorities. In other words, the law concerns large businesses in the municipal and state administrations with around 1 million employees. The aim of the new law is to further strengthen the legal certainty of individuals by reforming and modernising the current rules. Some general principles of administrative law, such as legality and objectivity, have been developed. They are now laid down in explicit provisions that make the law more accessible and easy to read. The new legislative text places increased demands on the efficiency of the management process. The possibilities for faster case management with modern electronic communications are highlighted and the regulatory framework is being developed to safeguard legal certainty. As previous speakers have said, it is a long process that has preceded this legislation. As early as 2008 the investigation was established under Hans Ragnemalm. It was a thick bibba that was delivered, and the report was completed in 2010. Since then it has been a solid work that has now resulted in the thick bill that came from the government. The big news is that you are introducing a so-called delay action. There are many, both JO and JK, who have previously criticised many authorities for slow handling. It has been that individuals have only been able to walk via JO or JK. Unnecessary slow handling is something that we from the KU often treat in our autumn review of the Government Office's handling. The delay action provides a new opportunity to get a decision more quickly when a case has been delayed. Any person who has initiated a case may request the Authority to rule on the matter if this has not been decided at first instance after six months. This reinforcement has been very much awaited. There are a number of other points that are made clear in the legislation. With regard to the important part about interpreting and translation becoming an explicit right, I have just one comment about the first speech by the Swedish Democrats: of course there is nothing in the legislation that would in any way prohibit the translation of brochures. On the contrary, it is something that is made much more clear that translations are important for people to understand their rights better. A general requirement on the suitability of a party's representative or representative is introduced. There are explicit provisions on the way in which a case is initiated and on the responsibility of the authorities. The right of a party to be informed about the handling of the case is strengthened, and the justification of the decisions must also be improved. More comprehensive provisions are introduced on when an authority may amend a decision and express provisions on which decisions are appealed. Like many others, the legislative changes are proposed to enter into force on 1 July next year. The changes are welcome, and I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-56	Mr President, I would like to For at least four parliamentary years, I have exercised that we should create the conditions for and make demands for decisions in administrative matters to be made more quickly. I have highlighted the long processing times, including in permit cases, and that they are, among other things, negative for companies when they want to be able to develop their business. Every year I have received the answer – and it has also been the decision of the Riksdag – that this is a question that is investigated with the new Administrative Act. Today we finally have the new Administrative Act for decisions here in Parliament. My motion on faster decisions on permit matters is also up for decision on the matter. I welcome the new legal remedy against slow processing contained in the new Administrative Act. For decision-making, the new Administrative Act includes a six-month limit in two paragraphs, 11 and 12. Its purpose is that the cases should normally be settled within six months at first instance. If a case is delayed, an individual party submitting a case shall receive a notification from the authority about the delay and what caused it. If a decision is not taken by an authority as a first instance, the person who has lodged the case and has not received a decision within six months may request that a decision be taken by the authority. The Authority shall then, within four weeks of a decision, decide on the case or reject the request for a decision in a specific decision. This decision can then also be appealed against. So there will be quite a lot of pressure on the authorities to cope with this six-month limit. I also see the six-month limit as a success for the purposes I set out in the motion calling for action to speed up decision-making within the authorities. However, several measures are needed if we are to have final decisions made more quickly. It is desirable that fewer cases be appealed against. Long decision-making times and high costs for representatives and assistants due to appeals mean that many companies do not apply for a permit for the development of their business activities and for other purposes. Of course, the long decision-making processes have come about partly due to an increase in the number of appeals. This is partly due to the fact that voluntary associations are increasingly given rights of appeal as interested parties. I think it is important that decisions that have the force of res judicata in more administrative matters can be taken more quickly and without appeal. Non-profit associations and others always have the opportunity to submit their views on appeals to all the bodies that have to decide on them. The interests of non-profit associations are normally general interests which the authorities and administrative courts have an obligation to take into account. I consider it desirable that non-profit associations and other organisations should be given the opportunity to highlight their views and specific knowledge already in the first instance. It is therefore justified that the views of certain non-profit organisations and organisations should be taken into account and that they should be consulted at first instance. Of course, this is particularly important in matters of fundamental importance. The idea, as I see it, is that the possibility of being a party in the legal sense then is not as urgent. This could help us to have a better basis for decision-making in the authorities, a smaller number of appeals, shorter time for final decisions and lower costs for all concerned. These are points of view which I have taken up in a specific opinion in the Constitutional Committee's report on the new Administrative Act. Mr President, I would like to Despite these comments, I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee in the report.
i-FqxymPaZn7FnmjtjeqrwGw	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister of State Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister of State Per Bolund and Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-65	Mr President, I would like to If immigrant women were to work to the same extent as Swedish-born women, Sweden's economy would be strengthened by SEK 47 billion. There are several billion more than the government now, like a popcorn machine, invests in different parts – it is perhaps primarily investments that benefit the government itself during an election year. What the budget, on the other hand, lacks, Mr President, are structural reforms that solve long-term problems, for example for immigrant women. Many women live in alienation. They can't support themselves. Not infrequently, they live with outdated standards. My question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson is: Why does the government avoid developing structural, long-term and significant reforms that can change the lives of these women but also for their children?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-68	Mr President, I would like to There are significant differences between men who are newly arrived and women who are newly arrived when it comes to the possibility of entering Swedish society. Over time, it looks better. Foreign-born women are the ones who have most strengthened their position on the labour market in recent years, but there are still significant differences. The government takes this issue very seriously – it is a high priority. As a result, we have developed a specific action plan for newly arrived women within the framework of the establishment of the Employment Service. We have redeployed the commission, so that demands can also be made. We will introduce an education obligation from 1 January. Already during the asylum period, we strengthen information about how Swedish society works. We are making significant efforts against the oppression of honour. We are making efforts to enable women on parental leave to participate in Swedish education in parallel with parental leave. We have made changes in parental leave so that it will not be a trap for those who come here with several children. We've abolished the custody allowance. This is an area in which we will continue to make proposals.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-71	Mr President, I would like to Yes, what the Minister mentioned has been agreed a few years ago. It is very good that it is being implemented. But I still wonder: How will women who currently live in Vivalla and Husby and who have been in Sweden for decades be affected by this? Effective and effective reforms are needed. In a boom, Mr President, one must dare to tackle structural problems. The Minister is again arguing about some measures that are absolutely necessary, but the government must address the difficult issues: valuation issues.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-72	Mr President, I would like to Let me give an example of a very important structural reform that this government has carried out. It is that new arrivals should not just settle in Vivalla or in areas where there are already many foreign born. They will be received in all Swedish municipalities, and they will be received in municipalities based on the municipalities' ability to receive new arrivals when it comes to, for example, the labour market. It is a very important structural reform. It is an example of how the government makes a difference in order for us to manage to get the many new arrivals into the labour market.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-73	Mr President, I would like to I put my question to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. On 1 March 2016, the Instructions Act entered into force. Instead of concluding voluntary agreements with municipalities and understanding the lack of housing in many areas, the government chose to override local government and introduce mandatory legislation for municipalities to accept new arrivals. The Swedish democrats were the only party and for several reasons opposed to that law. Today we see the consequences. A number of municipalities simply do not have the power to do so. The municipality of Nacka, for example, has had to purchase 94 properties worth 305 million in order to comply with the law. My question to the Minister is therefore this: is the Minister concerned, now that she sees the consequences of legislation that has abolished municipal autonomy and which imposes unreasonable costs on the municipalities?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-77	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is true that the Swedish Democrats are the only party in parliament that does not think that new arrivals should be distributed throughout the country. They think that new arrivals should live in certain vulnerable districts and that they should continue to make it more difficult and difficult for certain districts and municipalities, while other municipalities should be without new arrivals. I am pleased that there was a broad majority in Parliament for the new law, which is an important structural change. Municipalities have a housing responsibility. It's pretty far-reaching. This means planning for the homes that will be required in the municipality. This is true of children who grow up, who eventually become young people and who will then leave home. It is about the elderly who may no longer be able to live in their villa but need to move to a more suitable apartment. And it's about the new arrivals you're supposed to receive. The municipalities take altitude for this in a little different ways. But responsibility is clear and should continue to be.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-79	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Minister for his answer. However, we Swedish democrats see a great danger in rolling over a great responsibility on the part of the state on the part of the municipalities. This applies, in particular, to the substantial costs incurred after the start-up phase. That is precisely why these costs are so serious. I wonder if the Minister thinks it reasonable for the municipalities to provide for an immigration policy for which the state should actually be responsible.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-81	Mr President, I would like to It was a strange turn of events that Patrick Reslow made. You can't live in the state without living in any municipality. What we do with the instruction law is that we ensure that we distribute responsibility in a fair way between Sweden's municipalities. One can of course represent the view, as the Swedish Democrats do, that some municipalities and certain neighbourhoods should bear the full responsibility of accepting new arrivals. But the government and a large majority in the Swedish parliament have a different view. This is something that we carry together in Sweden.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-83	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. The government spends a lot of money on this year's cultural budget. It's a bit like the weather these days. There are very scattered showers, and it is concentrated on a few stretches in the metropolitan areas. Regional cultural policy and the model of cultural cooperation are almost entirely lacking in the budget. We Liberals, of course, welcome the regional effort to promote reading and literature. But the state funds for the country's cultural creators within the model and for cultural institutions are being eroded. As regards the cultural co-operation model, government funding continues to fall. What does the Minister of Culture say to the creators of culture around the country when they see that it is only state funding at national level that is now in force?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-87	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the question! It is a high tone of the Liberals and the Alliance as a whole in terms of the budget. It is particularly remarkable when you could hardly have had time to read it, as Bengt Eliasson makes clear with his question. If there is something in the historical cultural budget that the government has now put forward, it is precisely initiatives that reach the whole country. There are initiatives on free art and on scholarships to artists all over our country. These are free groups, which are perhaps mainly located throughout the country and outside our big cities. It is an effort on film to reach the whole country, and it is investing in libraries throughout the country. If there is anything in the budget that the government has now put forward, there is a lot of art and culture for the whole country, including through the model of cultural cooperation.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-89	Mr President, I would like to Regional culture must be better rewarded if the model of cultural co-operation is to live on. I've read the tables. The erosion means that cultural institutions at local level cannot pay compensation to professional cultural creators and continue to develop. Is it really the view of the Minister for Culture that the scattered showers should continue to be concentrated in some areas?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-91	Mr President, I would like to My intention and that of the government is that we should have a Sweden that stays together. We invest in Sweden, and we see the obvious place of culture in our country. That is why we are now investing historically large sums of money. Moreover, this time, with this budget, culture takes a larger share of the total expenditure of the state. This means that we want more culture to be available to more people, and we do this with a message.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-93	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. Yesterday, we had to take note of the government's budget. I tried to find investments in the perhaps most vulnerable group in the labour market, namely people with disabilities or with different types of social problems that do not give them a place in society. They need special support. The budget includes investments in Samhall, which is good, but not even they bring in the most vulnerable. Now several thousand people are sitting at home, idle and anxious. Those who used to be in the so-called phase 3 do not have the opportunity to work training or employment in so-called social enterprises.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-97	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue raised by Mrs Pethrus – thank you for it! We can see that it is precisely those who are most vulnerable who have the most difficult situation. We have a strong labour market. A lot of people get jobs, but not all of them. The group that is far from the labour market is having a very difficult time. We have made changes for those who have been unemployed for a long time. There is, for example, the possibility of work training. There are additional services that are growing, and there are many other measures. All the tools owned by Arbetsförmedlingen are now available to that group – they were not previously. We are also changing employment subsidies, which I expect will make things easier. But I do not think that is enough. I think we also need to invest in social enterprises, as Mrs Pethrus mentioned. That is why there are additional resources for social enterprises in the budget that we presented to Parliament yesterday. I also think that we need to look at the regulations for those who are not entering the labour market at all today. We have an investigation – a so-called flex job investigation – that looks at that group.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-102	Mr President, I would like to I don't think that's true. Since the Social Democrats and the Green Party came to power, the development has been such that the number of social enterprises has decreased for the first time. There are about 350 companies, and 35 of them have been forced to close because the procurement from Arbetsförmedlingen does not work. In the past, the Minister for Labour called for the Employment Service to have a chance to do these procurements. But why is nothing happening? Despite assignments to the Swedish Agency for Growth and Industry for two years, I think, nothing happens. Why?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-104	Mr President, I would like to The government believes that social enterprises in general and labour-integrated social enterprises in particular have a very important role to play in society. We want to see these companies play an even greater role. In my role as Minister of Labour, I see that they give work to people who often cannot find work anywhere else. That is why we will continue to work to strengthen these companies and to provide new opportunities for the people furthest from the labour market. I look forward to working with Mrs Pethrus on these issues.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-107	Mr President, I would like to The parliamentary public service inquiry will shortly present its proposals for how public service is to be financed after the TV license. We will then begin work on the broadcasting permits. It is now that politics will conduct the discussion on the focus of Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio and on the boundaries that need to be made. This is about confidence in the three public service broadcasters. For this confidence to exist, there must also be a workable review and follow-up that is separate from policy. This has also been pointed out by the companies themselves. A letter from the editors suggests that this should be introduced. Nevertheless, the Minister for Culture and the Government expressly choose to prevent the public service investigation from reviewing and making proposals on this. Does the Minister of Culture not see the absurdity of making decisions on funding and content but not being able to put forward proposals on how to follow this up?
i-UZC8HEjdpE9PX6MM6dmUWS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson, for the question! It is incredibly important, as Olof Lavesson says, that the public service companies have good and grounded conditions for their operations. That's why we have the special order that we have in our country– we're investigating, and then we're issuing broadcasting permits for a period of time. During the current broadcasting permit period, the conditions for public service have changed radically. The technology shift has meant that the online assignment is absolutely central. We need to ensure that we can monitor public service activities online. That is precisely why this is one of the clear tasks on which the Committee has to work. As regards how we are to be able to follow-up – if I understand the question correctly – when we have discussed the issue in the past, and also this summer, I have made it clear that we are going to do this in a special order. One such opportunity is when we are now setting up a new media basic law investigation.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-113	Mr President, I would like to For all other media there is the Press Opinion Board and a press ombudsman to ensure that infringements do not occur. They must ensure that you work in accordance with the ethical guidelines that exist, and there are sanctions if you do not behave properly. However, this does not apply to public service, and the Minister for Culture forbids the investigation to look at it. This is not a constitutional issue, but a purely follow-up and a media ethics issue. I see this as completely unreasonable – how can the Minister of Culture not do that?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-115	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I really want to look at this issue. That's why the Media Basic Law investigation, where we're going to review it, is so important.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-116	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Labour. Extra services are an important measure – not only for the individual, who has the opportunity to get a job with a collective wage, but also for the welfare, who gets extra resources that are needed very well. Some municipalities in my vicinity, in Skåne, have developed well and have many more extra services today. I see only a positive development where this has been well worked out. But that's not how it looks in the whole country. My question is: how does the Minister for Labour view the future of extra services? How are we going to ensure that this is a measure that strikes well throughout the country?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-120	Mr President, I would like to The extra services play an important role, as Annelie Karlsson says, not least in view of the situation we currently have in the labour market. A large proportion of the unemployed are very far from the labour market and find it difficult to compete for the available job vacancies. In the case of subsidised employment, men are in the majority of those receiving them, while women appear to be in the majority of those receiving additional services. It is also important from that point of view. Getting extra services has been slow at the start, but these are now growing at a very good pace. Today there are almost 6 000 additional services around the country. They are mainly located in municipalities and county councils, but we are now also opening up to the non-profit sector. I imagine that many jobs will emerge there. My assessment is that almost all municipalities are well on the way to setting up additional services and have a good cooperation with the Public Employment Service in recruiting the right people for the jobs.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-124	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I have a supplementary question concerning people who have been in action for a long time and have been outside the labour market and who are tired of spinning around the system. It is justified to ask the Minister for Labour how she sees the possibility of moving on to the regular labour market when you have had an extra job. How does the Minister for Labour view the possibility of having a wage to live on and of being able to start a life, with all that it means to get a permanent job?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-126	Mr President, I would like to It is very early to draw such a conclusion. So far, 500 people have completed an extra service. However, we don't know why – you may have completed the extra service because you got a job, because you were sick or because you can't work at all. We do not yet have information on that analysis. Of the 500 who have so far completed an additional service, around 200 have moved to another, regular, work, with or without subsidy, but in that case with a lower subsidy rate. We will have to come back to this issue.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-129	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister of Culture about the libraries. One of the most important institutions in society is the library for several reasons. It promotes reading and literature. Many, and especially children and young people, have the opportunity through libraries to get acquainted with literature and media that they might not otherwise discover. In addition, our libraries are a very important arena for cultural and social debate. Therefore, my question is: What ideas do you have as a minister on how to strengthen the role of libraries in society?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-132	Mr President, I would like to As Stefan Nilsson says, libraries are part of our basic educational and democratic structure in our country. It is a structure to be proud of and that exists throughout the country, although figures unfortunately show that libraries are declining in number, which is a very worrying trend. Since 2014, we also have a library law. It is a fantastic team that was worked out under the previous government, and we should all be happy that it has been adopted. It places demands on the libraries. These are demands that libraries sometimes find it difficult to live up to. This is especially true when there is a mess on our libraries, when libraries act as social offices and when librarians and those working in libraries cannot fulfil the role they want. We are now investing heavily in libraries because we want to keep them and because they fulfil a large and increasing function based on their mission.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-135	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. One thing that is important, besides what you mentioned, is how many libraries we have mainly out in the sparsely populated areas. What can the government do, and what will you do, to increase the accessibility of libraries in the country in smaller towns?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-136	Mr President, I would like to What we have now done is that we have put forward proposals in the budget to strengthen libraries by SEK 250 million a year. It is money that our municipalities will be able to provide assistance to support in the central activities of libraries and to enable them to do precisely what the libraries are for all of us. We will also make a special effort on media and information knowledge with source criticism for adults.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-138	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Labour. The 90-day guarantee was the most important election promise for the Social Democrats. The guarantee would mean a job, an internship or an education for young people within 90 days. Since it came into government, it has changed. Instead, those who register with Arbetsförmedlingen must be guaranteed an effort that leads to employment or education, i.e. labour market policy measures. A recent report presented by Isak Kupersmidt shows that the share of young unemployed people placed in labour market policy programmes has increased from 18% to 28% between 2014 and 2017, while the proportion going to work within 90 days has decreased. It is now more likely to end up in a labour market policy programme than to get a job within 90 days. My question to the Minister for Labour is whether she is satisfied with this development during her time as a minister.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-142	Mr President, I would like to I can delight Fredrik Christensson that reality is better than what it sounds like in his description. We have a situation where youth unemployment is falling very strongly. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 14 years. If we look at those young people who are not full-time students, we have to go back to before the 1990s crisis to find such a low level of unemployment among young people. That's very good. Yet, of course, there are youths who have difficulty finding work. This means that those who are enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen have become fewer. Many young people get jobs without the help of Arbetsförmedlingen. This means that those who remain registered at Arbetsförmedlingen are those who have more difficulties than others. Now we see that we can also help those young people who, for various reasons, need more action so that they get further into work. Let's do that. We'll pass the 90-day guarantee. I do not think it is a failure for young people who need action to be able to equip themselves for the labour market.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-144	Mr President, I would like to Youth unemployment has decreased thanks to the boom we are currently experiencing and fewer young people are entering the Employment Service today than before. However, in the case of those who sign up, it is much more likely that they will receive a labour market policy measure than that they will get a job with the help of the Employment Service. Is this a joyful development? We have also seen statistics that labour market policy programmes are very ineffective. Is this a good development for the young people who find themselves instead inefficient measures?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-145	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that no one should end up in an ineffective measure. It's crazy. We have a situation where, according to official statistics, about 100 000 young people say they are unemployed. Twenty thousand of them are enrolled in the Employment Service. There are fewer than 1 000 of these who have not received a sensible response within 90 days. It is young people who, for various reasons, are far removed from the labour market, for example because they lack upper secondary education. They enter into a measure that may be long-term, involving secondary education leading to work. The result shall be assessed whether it leads to work.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-147	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Bucht and concerns cod in the Baltic Sea. The Commission and the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea describe cod in the Baltic Sea as being in crisis. The stock is far below safe biological limits. The researchers also show that there is a complete lack of large cod in the Baltic Sea. I assume that the Government will fight hard for the scientific advice. My question to the Government is: when the most important predatory fish in the Baltic Sea is threatened, and therefore the whole ecological system, is it not time to take more drastic action?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-150	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question. Cods have for a long time had stocks that absolutely do not achieve long-term sustainability. In the eastern stock in particular, it is very small cod. In the western stock, the volume of cod is smaller. Both the western and the eastern stocks have problems. This issue was discussed when quotas were set for this year last year. This issue will also come up in the Council of Ministers this October. Sweden's line has been and will be that the scientific advice must apply. As far as the eastern stock is concerned, we are not really getting scientific advice. You don't know, you don't have the knowledge yet. The precautionary principle applies.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-152	Mr President, I would like to Scientists have pointed out that it is the big trawlers, which deal with the largest cod, that are the problem. It is now not a sustainable yield. You have to take out a lot less. For example, there are proposals to stop trawling over a three-year period to see what growth is like. Since 2009, fishermen have not even obtained the quotas they have decided on. My question is still: can the Government envisage more far-reaching measures?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-153	Mr President, I would like to This issue will be discussed at the Council at the beginning of October. The Commission has made a proposal. It is not a proposal for a total stop. On the other hand, there are severe limitations. I do not want today to precede the discussion that we are going to have in October. It is the precautionary principle and scientific advice that we should follow. The Swedish position must of course be anchored in both the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and the EU Committee on Agriculture.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-156	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats have certain policies for rural areas that are favourable, other things would be unworthy to say. But as usual, when the Social Democrats rule, you give with one hand and take with others. While new environmental cars are to be subsidised, petrol and diesel prices will skyrocket due to the annual tax increase with the CPI plus 2 percent which recurs in the government's budget. Thus rich people, who can afford expensive new environmental cars, are given subsidies. Those who are citizens with lower incomes and especially those living in rural areas will have to pay higher fuel taxes. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats claim to be a rural-friendly party. Yet this lopsided economic policy is hitting those living in rural areas and especially those with low incomes. I wonder why the government does not look to the whole when it formulates its rural policy.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-161	Mr President, I would like to In a situation where we have turned large deficits into large surpluses, we choose to use these surpluses. Half go to reforms to keep Sweden together. We use the reforms to reduce gaps between people, between groups, between us now and future generations and between different parts of the country. I can rejoice Jeff Ahl that people, no matter where they live in Sweden, have more opportunity to buy cars that are not environmentally damaging through the bonus – the malus system we introduce. This applies both to those living in rural areas and those living in urban areas. We make long-term structural investments to transform Sweden into a sustainable, climate-friendly country, and we do so in a way that holds Sweden together. It would be unfortunate to think that people in rural areas would be less prone to modernisation and conversion than people in urban areas.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-165	Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I will interpret the Minister's answer for all voters. It is as follows: If you are a low-income person living in the countryside, you can move to a place that has public transport. That's the minister's answer if you erase all the fluff.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-166	Mr President, I would like to I'm almost stunned by this distortion of what I just said. We are presenting a budget for a policy that narrows the gap. We are presenting a policy that benefits those who have low incomes. We are putting forward a policy that benefits a country that is sticking together. We are presenting a policy that favours a transition that everyone can take part in to modernise Sweden into a climate-smart future country that we can give in inheritance to our children. This applies to both urban and rural areas.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-168	Mr President, I would like to The role of the financial market in creating sustainable development cannot be overestimated. How we choose to save for a new car, pension, buffer or new housing has a crucial impact on the future of society, the economy and the environment. It is therefore not surprising that more and more people not only expect a good return on what they have invested, but also want to know how their money can help our common society to improve.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-170	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Dibrani for an important question. I agree that the investments and savings we are making today shape the world we will have tomorrow. If we can steer investment towards renewable and sustainable, we will have a beautiful and sustainable world in the future. I am therefore pleased with the commitment I see from savers, investors and the financial market to move in a greener and more sustainable direction. The government works methodically to achieve this goal and takes step by step to make the financial market greener. We are working on a new legislation for the AP funds that will make them continue to be leaders in sustainability. We are changing the premium pension system so that we also have high sustainability requirements there. We see that this provides the opportunity for a high return in the future as well. At the latest today, the Government decided that all fund managers in Sweden should report on the sustainability work they do and how they proceed, but also if they do not have a sustainability work, so that we as investors and savers should know.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-175	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister. The answer pleases me. The Minister mentions the pensions, and then I'm thinking about the so-called removal cost. I know there's work going on there too. What about the lock-in effect? When we see that an institution does not comply with what we want, we must be able to move easily to another institution without incurring the cost of moving.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-177	Mr President, I would like to It is also an important issue. It is clear that we, as savers, should decide how our capital is managed, and then we must have the opportunity to transfer our capital to the manager that we think does the best work and takes responsibility for the future. Therefore, we work to ensure that the right to move is implemented and can be used by us as a user. When you are not satisfied with your occupational pension manager, you should be able to move your savings, completed or ongoing, to the best actor. We are working on this now and will present it next year.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-179	Mr President, I would like to It must have escaped the fact that in May the Minister for the Environment, Karolina Skog, stated that the government did not intend to carry out a review of the Species Protection Regulation. Happily, albeit a little confusing, the Council of State, Bucht, shortly thereafter, announced that his colleague's statement was not true. Bucht concluded that the case was well prepared within the Government Office. This was in May. Now we're almost in October. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency pointed out on 21 June last year that a review had to be carried out. Mr President, I would like to My question to Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is: When will we receive a comprehensive message from the Social Democrats and the Green Party about whether a review of the Species Protection Regulation will take place? How long will the Government Office be prepared for?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-183	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I don't have a schedule to deliver. The issue is still under preparation, and we will have to come back.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-185	Mr President, I would like to I note that many of Sweden's forest owners and the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are concerned about the lack of clarity and ambiguities in the application of the Species Protection Regulation. This reported responsible authorities, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, gathered as early as last year. Mr President, I would like to I don't understand what's taking so long. Why can the government not provide information that a review of the Species Protection Regulation is being carried out?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-187	Mr President, I would like to There are legal proceedings going on, among other things, which we are waiting for in connection with the preparation of this issue. We want to see where they go before we're done with this. But we hope to be able to come back quite soon on this issue.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-188	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Per Bolund a question. In the Consumer Report, the Swedish Consumer Agency, on behalf of the Government, maps how consumers perceive the situation in a number of markets. This year's report highlights the real estate brokerage area in particular. The report shows that there is great ignorance and uncertainty among both sellers and buyers about the role and obligations of real estate agents. The market has problems with lock prices, and the consumer feels insecure in the bidding process. The report also shows that there is a great need for independent information. It highlights a number of action proposals to address these problems. Buying and selling homes are among the biggest business in life. The fact that many consumers perceive this market as problematic leads to the question: What measures in the Consumer Report has the Minister considered?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-192	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johanna Haraldsson for an important question. Just as Johanna Haraldsson says, it is a crucial business for us consumers when we buy a home. It is very large sums of money, and it can be hot conditions and sharp bidding. It can be difficult to gain the knowledge needed to make a wise and balanced decision. That is why we need to ensure that the real estate sector works and that the real estate industry creates a secure situation for us consumers at all. We have greatly strengthened Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen, and will continue to do so in the coming years. Within a few years, we will have strengthened it by over a third extra in the budget compared to what it has had in the past. In addition, we ensure that supervision works for individual real estate agents. We are also undertaking a review so that we can also supervise real estate brokerage companies so that they will be under review and follow good practice and create security for us consumers. We are therefore looking at both structural reforms and the existence of sufficient resources.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-198	Mr President, I would like to I think that it is important to take these problems seriously, especially in the housing shortage that exists. The Minister's response suggests that the government does. Let us look at a specific problem. The Real Estate Inspectorate says that misleading prices in marketing, so-called lock prices, are the most common basis for disciplinary action.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-201	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing is that supervision works and that all brokers are aware that they can actually be subject to scrutiny and convicted if they mislead consumers. In addition to this, it is of course extremely important to balance the housing market. It is gratifying that, through government measures, we now have an almost historically high level of housing. This means that there is a much greater choice for us as consumers, and we can also see that speculation in the new construction market is decreasing radically.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-203	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Labour. Time and again there have been reports of major shortcomings in the Public Employment Service's procurement of training programmes. Contracts after contracts have expired in a number of labour market training courses without the Public Employment Service having made new procurements on time. Despite the expiry of contracts, new procurements have not been launched. As we Moderates have pointed out several times in the past, this is serious as it affects job seekers. The Minister for Labour has said earlier that she takes this seriously, but as I understand it, nothing has happened. My question to the Minister for Labour is therefore: does the Minister think that the situation has improved with regard to the ability of the Public Employment Service to procure training courses and to do so at the right time?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-207	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue raised by Mrs Roswall. We have a situation with many job vacancies, more than we've ever had, and strong growth. The most important thing that employers are looking for is a skilled workforce, and although labour market training will never be the main way to train people into the labour market, it is an important piece of the puzzle for a well-functioning labour market where the unemployed are equipped and where employers can get the right skills. It is therefore essential that training is of high quality and that their procurement is properly conducted. I can welcome Mrs Roswall's view that the problems that previously existed with large gaps in procurement now appear to be largely addressed in the Employment Service. Most of the courses are in place and are procured, and many people are now in labour market training. This does not mean that I am satisfied, but I intend to come back with more proposals. I'll take it in the follow-up.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-210	Mr President, I would like to We may have different views on the current situation. If you go into Arbetsförmedlingen's website, where you see the procurements, it often says that they are ongoing, that the timetable is not ready and so on. I don't really have the same reality picture as the Minister. I would have liked a more powerful action and an answer that was more accurate based on what is on the Arbetsförmedlingen website.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-212	Mr President, I would like to As Minister of Labour, I cannot, of course, go in and run procurements for Arbetsförmedlingen. It would be a very unhappy form, and ultimately that's probably not what Jessika Roswall wants. There is an opportunity to appeal against tenders. It is a statutory right, and it is often used in the procurements of the Public Employment Service. The employment agency almost always wins in appeals, but it is clear that it can take time. It has to do with the rule of law. We have an additional assignment to the Labour Market Investigation regarding labour market training, such as procurements.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-216	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. Yesterday, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson presented a strong budget here in the Riksdag. Part of it will go to the cultural area, as much as 745 million. It's the biggest bet ever, and it's fantastic fun. Part of the investment – SEK 115 million – goes to free art. The artists are and have been a neglected group for a long time. They usually have a long education. We have heard this question on many different occasions. In view of the initiative, my question to the Minister for Culture is: What do you expect the effects of the 115 million on free art?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-220	Mr President, I would like to It is very gratifying that we in the government, in the largest cultural budget ever, are investing heavily in free art, on artists and on free groups in our country. When in many other parts right now you restrict artistic freedom, independence and freedom of expression around the world, the Swedish government does just the opposite. We want and wish for more art, more debate, more discussion, more that provokes us, more that turns us inside out and forces us to intellectual thoughtfulness and to intellectualize reality at all. What I expect is, in short, more art.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-223	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Many, not least the artists, are asking for the opportunity to be this driving force. I have a supplementary question. The government has announced that there will be a proposal in the autumn regarding the form of living environment. How does the Minister view the opportunities for artists to enter as an important part of the bill?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-226	Mr President, I would like to It is also a central issue. We're building like never before. As the Minister for the Financial Market said just now, it is a historically high level of construction. It is vital that we also put art at the centre when we do this so that we do not put art there afterwards. The artists will be involved in the process together with the landscape architects, architects and engineers so that we get more culture and art to more people across the country.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-227	Mr President, I would like to I would like a little clarification from the government on how the increased tax on people saving in so-called investment savings accounts has been discussed, or ISK as it is usually shortened. The Left Party is now proud to have pushed through the increased treasure. From a Marxist perspective, of course, it is a great victory with steps towards reducing people's chances of economic independence from the state. But how do the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the rest of you reason? How can it be a good policy to send out a signal to save less in a country with the largest private debt in the world? Has Waste Behavior become a Virtue in Sweden today?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-229	Mr President, I would like to Maybe we need some proportions here. The great Marxist revolution of a person with 50,000 in an investment savings account paying 37.50 more in tax may not be exaggerated. For a government that wants order in the state finances, as the government has, that wants to turn deficits into surpluses and that has kept the money tight, it is about keeping spending but also securing revenue on the tax side. You need to look at several different tax revenues. I do not see the revolutionary effects of the proposed tax increase of 37.50, as Mr Fransson sees.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-232	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I have a slightly different view of this. It is primarily a matter of signal value. I know it's 37, 50, or what the minister said, for 50 000 over a year, but over a lifetime of savings, it's about tens of thousands of dollars, with the interest-on-interest effect and the whole part. It's about the signal reading. This is the second time that the government has gone in and is deteriorating for this form of savings.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-235	Mr President, I would like to Let me give Mr Fransson a signal: we have moved from large deficits to large surpluses. We have a strong economic development. We have a strong labour market. We are spending EUR 40 billion on new reforms while paying off EUR 40 billion on public debt. It's the lowest public debt in 40 years. We have succeeded in the greatest reception of refugees that any OECD country has ever done in relation to population development without borrowing a single crown. I think that's a good signal.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-238	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson that there needs to be order in the finances. My question concerns credibility and legal certainty and compliance with legislation. It's illegal to be pissed off. The Radio Programme Caliber in P1 has reviewed the Arts Board and their official activities. The government wants to give them more money, but they're in a state of conflict in the exercise of their authority. In the regulations of the Arts Board, it says that friendship does not constitute conflict, contrary to what the law in plain text says.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-242	Mr President, I would like to I thank Cecilia Magnusson for the question. Order and order are crucial, not least for the government. It is also extremely important that you, as a minister, know what to interfere with and what not to interfere in and what to control, what you don't control and how to control. The practice of authority is something we should not engage in. As far as the discussion and what has been revealed and debated about the Arts Board is concerned, they themselves have said that they take the criticism and reporters very seriously and review their guidelines for conflict of interest.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-245	Mr President, I would like to It is a very strange statement that the Minister cannot ensure that her authorities actually comply with Swedish legislation. When it comes to conflict law, it is very clear that friendship is constitutive. Ensuring that the authorities do what they are supposed to do is a task for the Minister. That is why I ask the question.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-247	Mr President, I would like to We have the Swedish National Audit Office, we have a order for how we follow up our agencies and we have government dialogues. I follow the order and the regulations that the Swedish Parliament has set up.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-248	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to ask Minister Bolund about his preference for subsidised beaver safaris and ask him about beauty treatments that go wrong. Today, there is an unfortunate grey area dealing with beauty treatments that go wrong. In many cases, of course, they are doing well. But my question is when they don't. It is in these cases that the policy must act with effective legislation. There are many beauty parlors that are convicted by the General Complaints Board but that do not follow the Board's decision. Arn said last summer that you are unlikely to be the right authority at all. There is a complete investigation with sharp and effective proposals for, for example, compensation in the event of financial, physical and psychological damage. The same investigation also proposes licensing obligations and supervision. My question to Minister Bolund is: When comes the sharp proposal from the government, and what do you say to the young girl who today does not get support and help when something goes wrong in a beauty surgery?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-253	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Beckman for a very important question. This is an area in which we as consumers are not only at risk of financial setbacks if we do not get what we are buying, but where we also risk health risks in the event of mistreatment. It is therefore particularly important that we ensure that this market really works. The investigation referred to by Lars Beckman received very sharp criticism in the consultation session. This led us to choose from the government's side not to present the investigation's proposals. Instead, we are now working, especially at the Ministry of Social Affairs, to come up with new proposals to ensure just the safety of us consumers in this rather complicated market. It is a very broad market, with everything from peeling and simple operations to surgery. It is clear that it is then a difficult balance when it comes to an ordinary consumer market and when it comes to health care, when it is perhaps to be regulated in a stricter and safer way. It is therefore important that we do this in a good way that really gives the security that we as consumers deserve.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-256	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Of course, it is very important that the government acts when a market does not work. It is probably not unusual for consumers today to think that they have some form of protection, because they confuse health care and consumer protection, as the Minister suggests. But I very much hope that the government will address this issue in the near future. The investigation was launched in spring 2014, it was presented in November 2015 and now it is 2017. I therefore look forward to the government acting.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-259	Mr President, I would like to I very much share the view that there is an urgent need for proposals in this area. This is not the first time that an investigation has put forward proposals that cannot then be implemented. However, this does not make the issue less urgent, but we really need to move forward. We will use the knowledge of the authorities and we will come up with proposals in the near future to ensure the security of this particularly vulnerable and particularly important consumer market.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-261	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. I looked last Sunday at the Agenda programme in SVT, where the national coordinator was asked, among other things, how many of the returnees who have come back to Sweden from terrorism that the municipalities had had contact with. The national coordinator could not respond to that. The national coordinator also said in this element that Sweden was relatively spared in relation to this type of issue, despite the fact that Sweden is one of the countries most affected not least in terms of domestic extremism. It is 2 000 violent Islamic extremists who are today a threat to our democracy. Unfortunately, we have also suffered terrorist attacks – no later than 7 April in Stockholm. My question to the Government is: Does the Minister share the coordinator's view that we have been relatively spared in Sweden?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-265	Mr President, I would like to No, I definitely don't. There is no excuse that we are one of the countries that are over-represented, I would say, when it comes, for example, to travel and to the hugely growing number of Islamists and extremists. The Security Service has announced that today we have a major challenge in this regard.
i-LHpHPwmEYmyA8CJytcFq4P	Mr President, I would like to The Government appointed the national coordinator Anna Carlstedt at the end of last year, and her assignment runs on. It is very serious that we cannot answer real serious questions, but also that we are doing this analysis. Since you, Alice Bah Kuhnke, are the responsible minister who has appointed her, I would like to ask today: Do you have confidence in her? Can Anna Carlstedt remain as national coordinator after this statement?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-268	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the government has confidence in the heads of government that we have appointed until we announce otherwise.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-270	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Alice Bah Kuhnke a question. What does the government intend to do to strengthen our minorities? Our five national minorities have a special position. The administrative areas have been a success since the start, from 7 years 2000 to 75 years 2015. And more are on their way out in the country. However, 215 of the country's municipalities are not part of administrative areas. Basic protection is not applied in these municipalities, but it is far from being applied in all 75 existing administrative areas. If you are a pessimist, you could see it as a total failure, or you could see it as a potential for development.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-273	Mr President, I would like to For the Swedish government, our national minorities and their preconditions are self-evident. It is also linked to our constitution, which establishes the rights of minorities. This is something that we need to strengthen in our country, and we are now doing so in the budget that has been presented. We have set aside funds to be able to open up to more administrative municipalities, which is extremely gratifying. There are many municipalities that want to do more, which you take on if you become an administrative municipality. We are strengthening support for the culture of national minorities. We are also strengthening the ability of national minorities to organise themselves in the area of security-enhancing measures. Unfortunately, not least, the Jewish minority is experiencing increased threats and harassment. We need to do much more, as this government will.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-275	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Culture. The majority of society has been very successful in making national minorities invisible, and it is important to continue working to make them visible. I am therefore pleased that the government is now investing heavily in this. Participation and influence must be self-evident. Thank you for your answer, then.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-277	Mr President, I would like to The culture and cultural heritage of national minorities is part of Swedish cultural heritage. The more we can invest in the opportunities of national minorities to develop language down into future generations, as well as other traditions and habits, the more we strengthen Swedish cultural heritage. It feels fantastic to be Minister of Culture and Democracy in the Swedish Government.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-278	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Swedish agriculture is largely dependent on the agricultural aid that comes. Being a farmer means having a cyclical payment requirement over the year. You pay for feed to your animals in the autumn, and it is not actually in the spring you need that money but in the autumn when you have to pay for the feed. It is therefore very regrettable that we now have to wait and do not really know when to get the agricultural aid. It usually comes in the autumn, but it says that it may come in December. I wonder if Minister Bucht thinks it reasonable that Swedish farmers should now have to take out loans because the state does not pay out the agricultural subsidies that otherwise come when the bills actually come.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-281	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It is deeply regrettable that aid cannot be paid out on time. I do not think there is any political disagreement on this. Unfortunately, Sweden shares this problem with all 28 EU countries. There are major problems with payments in all countries. It has to do with the fact that the programming period came very late in place, and it also partly has to do with national management. No programming period was completed from 1 January 2014, but we only got it completed in May 2015. This has caused a lot of problems. We have, in two different rounds, provided the Swedish Agriculture Agency with financial resources to solve the problem.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-283	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Government actually finds this problematic, because it is very provocative when it rains gold on almost everyone in the government's budget but not on the entrepreneurs, not on the countryside and not on the Swedish farms. It's hard to be an entrepreneur when you're going to live on loans and not know what tomorrow looks like, so this is really problematic.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-284	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue I am following very closely. The Board of Agriculture, as I said, was provided with financial resources so that it would also have systems to manage the payments. They are now being caught up with, and most of them are being paid out. Nevertheless, it is going in the right direction, but it is regrettable that it has been this way. Unfortunately, the problem exists in all other EU countries as well.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-286	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask a question to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. First of all, I will congratulate you on a large budget, and then I will congratulate you on the situation that has arisen that the government can ride on a boom. Now we can afford it, as the Minister said at one point. The government is thus blowing on, despite the negative interest rate and despite the fact that there is a risk of what is called a possible crash landing in the future. In the budget, there is a post, and this concerns a national centre of cultural schools. It is probably supposed to add ass to Stockholm and will receive 10 million a year. This will, of course, continue to be the case, so in the event of a recession, we can count on it to remain. Then we'll have to deal with it. My question is what this national cultural school centre should do that goes beyond municipal competence.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-289	Mr President, I would like to What feels good today, the day after the Minister of Finance stood in this Chamber and presented the government's budget, is that, while we are paying off 40 billion on public debt, we are investing 40 billion in our country. We invest in everything from children and young people to jobs and housing. It feels amazing. Of these 40 billion, we are now investing 10 million in the cultural school. It is in addition to SEK 100 million, i.e. a total of SEK 110 million. 10 million of these 110 million go to a cultural school centre where we will continue to develop the cultural school so that all children, whether they have rich parents or not, will have the chance to learn animate film, stand on stage, play an instrument or play theatre. That's what the money's for.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-291	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Culture School is a municipal responsibility. We know what it means; I know it myself. In Munkedal municipality, children are required to attend the cultural school after school. This means that students from Hedecas, who have two and a half miles to Munkedal, cannot enjoy this with the school of culture. How does the Minister view it, in terms of rural areas and the opportunities of these pupils?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-293	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Roland Utbolt! That is precisely why we are devoting so much money. There will now be SEK 110 million a year to the Cultural School, precisely in order for municipalities like Munkedal to be able to work with quality-enhancing efforts. It should not be about being lucky to live in a wall with the cultural school, but it should be possible to invest in perhaps infrastructure or transport so that children can get there. We are such a rich country and have such a fantastic finance minister that we will be able to do both.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-294	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Mr Ylva Johansson, Minister for Labour and Establishment. In media reporting, we can see how Nazis demonstrate without permission. Dressed in uniforms and with banners and shields, they march on Swedish streets and squares. Last Sunday in Gothenburg we saw about fifty people from the Nazi organisation Nordic Resistance marching. The purpose of this kind of demonstrations is to be intimidated, and many people are intimidated. Many people's security of movement in streets and squares is threatened.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-297	Mr President, I would like to I am also among those who are frightened and very badly touched by seeing Nazis demonstrate on our streets. It goes without saying that the right to express oneself freely, even for those who wish to restrict the right of others to express themselves freely, is an important cornerstone of a democracy. But it is also an important foundation of a democracy not to be intimidated by marching Nazis on the streets. This, of course, is not an easy balance to make in legislation. Those of us who represent free society are responsible for legislation that also gives opponents of free society the right to express themselves. That balance and exactly how it is to be done is a central issue for the government, but I cannot give a concrete answer as to whether or not to review the legislation. I don't know about it.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-299	Mr President, I would like to If we do not act, I fear that there is a risk that a new practice will be developed that will obviously allow violent extremist organisations to march in uniform on our streets without permission. This is a major threat to our open society and our democracy.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-300	Mr President, I would like to I share that view. Violent extremists and Nazis marching on our streets are a situation I don't want us to have. However, the specific issue of legislation is beyond my competence to answer.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-302	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Bucht. We are in a climate change situation, which is affecting us more and more. If, in this situation, we are to cope with increased food production in Sweden, which we in Parliament have all supported through the food strategy, more varieties are needed in our agricultural landscape that are adapted to our climate and future climate change.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-304	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question! Plant breeding is an important issue for the future of agriculture as well as open-air farming and greenhouse cultivation. Not least in the light of climate change, research and development of new plants is required. The Government has therefore decided to set up a competence centre for plant breeding at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. In the 2018 budget proposal, we propose 20 million to this competence centre for plant breeding. The appropriation will be increased by 30 million in 2019, and it will then be made permanent at a level of 40 million. This is a very important question for the future in order for us to be able to grow in the future as well.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-307	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is positive that the government is addressing this, because plant varieties developed for our climate usually mean that the need for plant protection products is reduced. We saw this when straw-shorteners were banned and grain with shorter straws was produced. With increased plant breeding we can look forward to a reduced need for plant protection products that we see today has been a major problem. This is very positive.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-309	Mr President, I would like to The issue has also been discussed within the framework of the Nordic Council. In the past, we have also allocated 11.7 million over a three-year period in a package of measures for the implementation of the food strategy to develop plants that can cope with the northern latitudes.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-311	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask my question to Ylva Johansson. In Sweden, we now have the highest level of employment throughout Europe. It is also the highest we have ever had in Sweden. This is a positive measure and a good measure of how it looks on the labour market. As much as possible of the working-age population should be employed, as it is now. But we can get even better. One important area is the participation of women in the labour market. We can see that one of the reasons why we are at the top is that we have a high level of participation among women. However, this may be even better. The average difference between a woman's and a man's income during working life is SEK 3.6 million. This has different explanations, including wage discrimination. However, one important explanation is the lower participation of women in working life. How can we further increase women's participation and employment?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-314	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we have a high employment rate, and especially when we look at women's employment rates and participation in the world of work, we are extremely high at international comparisons. But there is no reason to be satisfied. There is still a gender gap, and it is unacceptable. It does decrease, but more needs to be done. In order for more women to be able to work, the efforts we are making in general are about, for example, enabling childcare on uncomfortable working hours, which the government has introduced, or about targeted efforts for newly arrived women to enter the labour market, which is something we are now doing. What we are presenting in this budget is about, for example, being able to combine parental leave with language training. It is also about outreach activities together with the study associations to motivate women to enter the labour market or further out into education. We also have several other efforts. An important issue in what Hillevi Larsson raises and which concerns wages is also involuntary part-time work. I can be pleased with Hillevi Larsson that, now that we have looked into the matter, we have seen a very sharp reduction in the involuntary part-time work of women.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-318	Mr President, I would like to I think the crucial thing is that we have a feminist government, which we now have. It really sees gender differences that need to be improved. One difference is that women should participate as much as men. This is positive for society as a whole. This leads to increased tax revenues and lower unemployment, but it also benefits women's income and livelihoods and, not least, the possibility of a better pension in the future. This is an incredibly important gender equality issue. Thank you very much and good luck in the continued work!
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-320	Mr President, I would like to Gender equality and the feminist struggle will not succeed unless you are stubborn, stubborn and systematic. We will have to continue working together until we reach the point of having the whole salary and half the power.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-321	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. I read that the minister, just like me, is out in the countryside meeting a lot of people. Can't everyone worried about people who don't have a working phone or a functioning broadband have escaped the Minister for Rural Affairs? Telia has cut off the copper wire or intends to cut it off. Today, in the Corren newspaper, we can read about Margareta and Eva living outside Åtvidaberg. That's where Telia cut the copper wire. The result is not unexpected. You can't call in or out, even though Telia has set up an antenna amplifier. Nor does the cell phone work. This is of course worrying if, for example, you want to call an ambulance. These are just two examples of all those who have the same misery around the country. What does the Minister for Rural Affairs say to everyone in the countryside who doesn't have the same chance as us who live in the city? What responsibility does the government take?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-324	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I also meet these comments when I am travelling. But I have to tell Mr Oscarsson that I meet them less and less often. The government has now invested a great deal in better technology. There has never been so much money to get broadband and thereby solve the telephony problems in Swedish rural areas. This is about 5.5 billion by 2020. So it is 5 500 million by 2020 to solve the problem. However, we encounter these problems from time to time. It is extremely important that we get technology across the country. It is this government that is determined to resolve.
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-326	Mr President, I would like to If this had happened in Stockholm, for example, there would have been a outcry. But now it's happening in the countryside, and then the reaction is something like: Who cares? I wish the Minister would not say as ministers usually say when I raise this. They say, "What did you do in eight years?" It didn't happen at all. It is our political power and duty to try to do something about it, regardless of the color of the government. What does the Minister intend to do about this problem?
i-15050bfb5d531ae5-329	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson wonders who cares. This government actually cares. That is why we have also allocated a great deal of money historically to solving technology. We are also making another adjustment regarding the so-called SOT level. It's about the lowest speed you get. We tenfold it from one megabit to ten megabits. We have also decided on a long-term strategy that means that we will speed up the pace to get broadband out in Swedish rural areas. We will ensure that this comes out into the countryside. We care.
