i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-4	Madam President, I would like Since 2015, Sweden has participated in the military training operation of the International Coalition against IS in Iraq following the Iraqi invitation. The coalition conducts training in Erbil, among others, where Kurdish peshmerga units within the Iraqi security forces are trained by the Swedish intervention in healthcare, the laws of war, fighting in buildings and detection of improvised explosive devices. We Swedish democrats have been in favour of Sweden's participation in the global coalition's education campaign against IS, which is being carried out in northern Iraq, in previous positions in the Riksdag. In connection with Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's visit to Erbil at the end of October 2016, he promised that the Swedish contribution of strength would double to 70 people. We do not believe, given the stage in which the action against IS is being taken, that it is necessary for Sweden to double its contribution to strength. Having observed the Swedish defence capabilities in Sweden and the deteriorating security policy situation in our own immediate vicinity, we also do not think it appropriate to further burden the defence budget. In December 2016, however, the Swedish Parliament approved an extension of the Swedish Force Contribution but opposed an extension of the geographical mandate as it considered that there was a need for more information about the location of the grant and the security situation in Iraq. We Swedish democrats considered the then Swedish contribution of strength to be quite sufficient and pointed out that the proposed increase in the Swedish contribution of strength did not seem to be very well planned. In the debate, we pointed out the shortcomings in the planning of the increased contribution and that it was first decided to increase the number before knowing where the need was greatest and where the increased number would be located geographically. It's a very strange order, to say the least. Now the government has returned to a bill and proposed that the extended number be placed on the Al Asad base. I would like to point out, Madam President, that we have not changed our position on the numerary and believe that the Government's proposal for an increased number should be rejected. Instead, we believe that the Riksdag should allow the Government to make available the same number as before the December decision, i.e. an armed force of up to 35 persons, on site until 31 December 2017, and that, if the situation so requires, a temporary reinforcement and evacuation force of up to 85 persons. As far as the extended geographical mandate is concerned, we rely on the Swedish Armed Forces' assessments of where the best conditions are for Swedish contributions and do not believe that there should be any obstacles to the current strength contributions being placed on the Al Asad base. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, on 14-15 May, I had the privilege of leading a Swedish delegation from the Foreign and Defence Committees during a trip to Erbil in northern Iraq to take part in the Swedish operation on the ground, but also to meet Kurdish representatives to discuss the situation. I can begin by stating that the Swedish effort has been well received and appreciated. We can therefore be proud of our talented military staff who really make a difference, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them very much. When we were in the field and took note of how the Swedish soldiers trained the Kurdish peshmerga units in, among other things, health care revealed the lack of peshmerga on proper medical equipment. Although they trained to put pressure dressings on Western medical equipment, since it is most likely that they will not have access to this in the field, they also had to practice with rags and sticks, which will probably be what they have access to. Similarly, it appeared that many of these young soldiers had to buy their own uniforms and boots due to a lack of resources. We Swedish democrats have suggested that the effort that Sweden is pursuing should be broadened by the Government investigating needs and opportunities for material support. Of course, we do not mean war material for combat, but other specialized, material support. Such support could relate to healthcare equipment and clothing as well as communication equipment, mobile internet connections and computers and small, driverless surveillance plans similar to those used in previous operations in Afghanistan. I had hoped that more people in the committee would have been able to find out with their own eyes and ears about the need for material support. Unfortunately, however, the committee has chosen to reject our proposal. Furthermore, Madam President, we Swedish democrats have proposed that the government should use Sweden's limited resources where they do the most good and greatly increase the support for humanitarian action in the immediate vicinity of the crisis, rather than continuing its hopelessly inefficient immigration policy, which obliges us to cut 8 billion out of aid. It is a sum that could cover the entire humanitarian effort. In our talks with the Kurdish representatives, this was made clear. The Minister for Foreign Relations, Falah Mustafa Bakir, was clear about this after a question about what we in Sweden could assist with. He said, just as we Swedish democrats have said for years, that it was better to help the refugees down there than to get to Europe and finally Sweden as it would cost so much more to help them in Sweden with our standard of living. We could help so many more down there, he meant. I couldn't help but say: I totally agree! I hope that my colleagues from other parties, who were in the delegation, also listened to the Minister's appeal. However, I can say, Madam President, that the committee chooses to reject our proposal precisely to increase humanitarian efforts in conflict areas. I am, of course, sorry about that. Madam President, I would like Iraq is, in many respects, a problematic state. The borders of the country do not reflect any natural demarcation of a particular or some peoples, but rather an arbitrary division by European colonial powers. As Iraq is a patchwork of peoples who show obvious difficulties in co-existence peacefully, it needs a constitutional solution that takes into account the legitimate demands of its minorities for greater independence. We believe that greater autonomy for the country's minorities is an important piece of the puzzle in the country's political stabilisation. The Kurdish part of Iraq deserves to be highlighted in the debate. In spite of certain contradictions in the relationship between Erbil and Baghdad, particularly with regard to the distribution of budgets and certain internal contradictions between the Kurdish parties, they are determined to resolve the problems by peaceful and democratic means. With bloody civil war in the mid-1990s in commemoration, the various parties seem to agree on this. I believe that Iraqi Kurdistan can to some extent set an example in its part of the region, even though they have a lot to work with. At least they deserve the support of the outside world. The Kurds have for a long time had a great deal of autonomy and have demonstrated democratic development and respect for human rights. In order to obtain a constitutional solution in Iraq, we believe that the government should use its influence and complement the military effort with a political process to influence the Iraqi Government towards greater autonomy for the various minorities. This applies not only to the Kurdish parts but also to the Christians in the plain of Nineves. After all, the Nineves plain in northern Iraq was part of the historical Assyrian kingdom and has been populated for a long time by mainly Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans. In order to bring about a stable and secure long-term situation in Iraq, we believe that increased autonomy for the various minorities is the only solution. Madam President, I would like As the policy in Iraq is strongly ethnically emphasised, it is neither fair nor appropriate for one group to have to lean on another for its military defence. When IS invaded northern Iraq and the Nineves plain in 2014, the Kurdish forces and the national Iraqi army fled. The Christian and Yazid people were left to their fate, with horribly similar consequences to genocide. The UN Human Rights Council also stated in a resolution in September 2014 that IS abuse can constitute a crime against humanity and war crimes. The events of 2014 clearly show that the Christian and Yazid people, although receiving the important support of the Kurdish Peshmerga forces during the conflict, do not have any guarantee of support from outside forces. For this reason, it has laid the foundations for its own defence force called the NPU. However, the strength is small and trained by a private security company and receives funding from private donations. We consider it extremely urgent that even the weakest minorities in Iraq have the opportunity to defend themselves and ensure their survival. Therefore, we have proposed that the government works to ensure that the coalition against IS also includes NPU in its support efforts. Madam President, I would like Participation in international efforts is a burden on the defence budget. In a situation where Sweden does not have a defence of existence to talk about, while the security policy situation in our immediate vicinity continues to look serious, we do not think it appropriate to further burden the defence budget. The Swedish democrats therefore believe that the government will already provide increased resources to the defence through loans and then adjust this in the next budget. We generally want to see substantially increased resources for the defence, but we believe that the government should at least provide additional funds in order to compensate for the indirect financial pressures that it entails for the Armed Forces to carry out the operation in Iraq. Finally, Madam President, when the Government's previous proposal on the same subject was discussed in the Riksdag, the Parliament endorsed what was stated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the need to evaluate the efforts that Sweden has made in Iraq since the start of the operation. The committee then noted, according to information from the Ministry of Defence, that the Swedish Armed Forces carry out evaluation and follow-up in connection with each rotation. The committee stressed the importance of analysing and evaluating the impact of the Swedish contribution to international peace-promoting efforts. The committee considered it of great importance that the experience gained from the Swedish unit on the ground should now be thoroughly evaluated. The importance of early identification of relevant challenges is an important lesson from the operation in Afghanistan. The committee considered that the experience so far of the Swedish military training operation should be compiled by the government in consultation with the Swedish Armed Forces and reported back to the Riksdag. In the latest bill, which the committee has now discussed, the government writes that, the Swedish contribution is continuously evaluated and followed up by the Swedish Armed Forces in connection with each rotation. The Government Office[...] takes note of this evaluation and takes into account the Swedish Armed Forces' evaluation in the ongoing analyses carried out in the design of the mission's mandate and in connection with the considerations made prior to the Government's proposal to the Riksdag to extend the operation. ..................................................... But nowhere does it say that, according to previous parliamentary decisions, the government intends to return to Parliament with a report on evaluation and follow-up. For this reason, we would like to stress once again the importance of the Riksdag being given access to a summary of the experience so far of the Swedish military training operation through a report to the Riksdag. The bourgeois parties have previously pointed out the importance of evaluation and follow-up. However, since they themselves missed the exercise on this matter in the report we are debating, it would have been nice if they had been able to back up our request, because that is exactly what they themselves are proposing. I can only say that the bourgeois parties are still in the bucket and shovel and that, because of this, we are missing the opportunity to re-emphasise to the government the importance of the Riksdag taking part in a summary of the experience so far of the Swedish military training operation through a re-report to the Riksdag on evaluation and follow-up. I would like to express my support for the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 2, and I apologise for exceeding my speaking time.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-32	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to the effect that the Parliament will approve the Government's proposal regarding Sweden's continued participation in the military training operation in Iraq. Madam President, I would like Terrorism not only threatens states and individuals, but also threatens the values on which open society rests. There are very clear national security reasons for our participation in the fight against the terrorist organisation ISIL/ Daish. Since we debated in December the issue of the Swedish contribution to the international coalition's educational effort in this House, Sweden and Stockholm, together with several other countries and cities, have suffered terrible acts of terror. The perpetrator who hijacked the truck here in Stockholm reached about 500 meters on Drottninggatan. Five people lost their lives on that hideous journey. Britain has suffered three attacks in recent months. There are too many examples in Europe, Iraq, Syria and yesterday in Iran. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have been the driving force for stronger anti-terrorism measures. Yesterday, a joint agreement could be presented. These include, among other things, signal reconnaissance during preliminary investigation, enhanced camera surveillance and increased penalties for certain terrorist offences. Of course, national agreements and austerity are not enough. We must fight terrorism at all levels. The terrible actions of Daish mean that, for moral and human reasons, we must also participate in the international fight against terrorism. Despite Daish's strong resistance, the international coalition against Daish, where Sweden participates, makes a difference. It now seems that the fighting going on in Syria and Iraq if the Daish-controlled areas are entering their final stage – that is what we hope. At dawn last Tuesday, the U.S.-supported Kurdish-Arab alliance SDF launched an attack on the city of ar-Raqqa in Syria, which is Daish's self-appointed capital. Information suggests that between 3 000 and 4 000 terrorists are present in the city and that hard fighting awaits. Even in Iraq, Iraqi and Kurdish forces with US air support have made progress in the fight against Daish, although it is progressing at a slow pace. The battle for Mosul continues and continues. The coalition now looks to be able to surround Mosul. A final battle, which has been talked about during the number of months, seems to be something that we are facing. But many difficulties remain, Madam President. More than 100,000 civilians have already fled Mosul. Humanitarian needs, which already exist, are likely to increase as the offensive continues. Despite the defeats in northern Iraq, there is a great risk that Daish will continue to pose a major security threat in Iraq and in the region in the form of suicide attacks, among other things. Sweden can and will help in the fight against Daish. We Moderates have previously argued that Sweden should and can do more. We therefore welcome the doubling of Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. We also welcome the fact that the Swedish contribution will also be able to provide training at the Al Asad base in central Iraq. Unfortunately, the limited capacity at the Al Asad base means that this is currently not feasible, which means that the Swedish contribution continues to be active at the base in Erbil. Should the situation change, the Government should keep the Riksdag informed of this. Madam President, I would like When the Riksdag authorises the Government to send Swedish armed forces on mission in another country, it is a significant responsibility. As tragic experiences have shown, it is not possible to exclude the loss of human life in the context of peace-building missions and crisis management operations. That is why it is important that we take these decisions in this House. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank all the Swedish women and men who are participating and have participated in Sweden's international efforts to promote peace.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-46	Madam President, I would like I belong to those who three weeks ago had the great privilege of visiting the Swedish unit in Erbil, Iraq. I used the word benefit – it is of course a war zone with a lot of misery and many tragedies, but there is still great respect for the Swedish unit in place and for the effort made by the unit. I think it is an important experience for us Members of Parliament, who quite often make this kind of decision in this House, to get down there, meet with the unit and see how things are progressing. It is extremely important knowledge to have with you. On site in Erbil we saw how basic education was done. A group of female officers from Peshmerga received basic shooting training and basic first-aid training. That was impressive to see. But I, who attended the Swedish military education 25 years ago, also took home with me that the knowledge we have in Sweden and the education we have here is also extremely impressive. It can be seen when we are out in this way. I think you should take this with you, Madam President. Now we are entering a period when we will not only have professional soldiers in Sweden, but we will also have conscript soldiers. We should take advantage of the contractual soldiers we have, who have been out doing these jobs, in training our conscripts. The reputation of the participation of the other countries has been extremely consistent in the way our soldiers behave and that we used soldiers and not just officers in education. I think that's something we're gonna take with us. This is, of course, a politically difficult situation in Iraq. All the assessors on the ground say that the IS in Mosul is soon militaryly defeated, but the country itself has major problems and there is no easy solution. What is perhaps positive is how fast people get started and try to rebuild their city. Now the final battles in the western Mosul are taking place with human shields and very nasty things, but in the eastern parts there are reports that schools open and you start with educational efforts. There is faith in the future and the desire to build and create a society in peace and community. When IS/ Dai sh is militaryly defeated, the type of terrorist attacks that we see now will continue. We see them in Europe, but it is even worse in the neighbourhood. It can also mean that the police in place, the blue, civilian police, also need support and help to combat the terrorist attacks that are taking place in the area. The decision that Parliament is debating today means strengthening the Swedish effort. We go from 35 to 70 people, i.e. doubling the stake, in addition to the temporary task force of 150 people that we can send down if support and assistance would be needed. We will continue to train and train units in healthcare, detection of explosive devices, international law rules and fighting in settlements, but also have the addition that we will work with handling chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear substances, i.e. make efforts and be able to prevent and help if such things happen. We have received reports that such substances are present in the area and that they are used. We, from the Swedish side, have a knowledge and something that we can show in a good way when it comes to this, I think, and we can help the Iraqi Government's troops in this area. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by making it clear that I have great respect and gratitude for the women and men who carry out these efforts. It is a very important signal that we have to take these decisions in the Swedish Parliament so that they feel that we are behind them and that this is something that Sweden believes in and can help with. With those words, Madam President, I am in favour of the proposal made by the composite committee.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-57	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by sending my deepest condolences to all the victims and relatives around the world who have suffered from the cruel, twisted face of terrorism that has torn children from their parents and parents from their children. I am thinking of Stockholm, Manchester, London, Kabul, the Bamako list, unfortunately, can be made long. Terrorists are attacking the very essence of our way of life, our democracy, our human rights and our culture. We can't let evil win. It is about this that we must cooperate in the Swedish parliament, locally, nationally, regionally and globally. Madam President, I would like When the previous government decided in 2013 to phase out Swedish aid to Iraq, Iraq was a middle income country with economic and social development at least going in the right direction, although it was a long way to go. Four years later, unfortunately, the picture is quite different. Today, the country is deeply divided by difficult conflicts involving, above all, Daish's progress in vital parts of the country. That is why it was welcome and necessary for the Red Green Government to decide last autumn to develop a five-year aid strategy for Iraq. With up to SEK 1 billion to strengthen democracy, community building and women's rights, Sweden has shown a continued comprehensive and in-depth commitment to the country's future. Madam President, I would like The ties to Iraq are close and strong. It is estimated that 2% of Sweden's population has its roots in Iraq. A large inter-folk exchange has been going on for a long time, since the establishment of the Swedish Consulate more than a century ago. In 2009, the Swedish Embassy was reopened in Baghdad. Iraq's affairs are therefore also those of Sweden. Today we are going to decide on an important and unfortunately absolutely necessary aspect of Swedish international cooperation with Iraq: the military effort. Sweden has a long history of participating in international efforts. The Swedish foreign force currently has personnel in eleven conflict areas around the world. On 25 June 2014, in a letter to the UN Secretary-General, Iraq requested assistance to combat Daish through, inter alia, training and material support to the Iraqi defence. On 15 August 2014, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2170 on collective and national action against Daish, the NUSRA front and other groups associated with Al-Qaida and the crimes committed by those groups in Iraq and Syria. Since then, the Swedish force contribution to the so-called coalition against IS has mainly worked in northern Iraq and has the advice and training of the Iraqi defence forces as its main task. The military plan is only part of a broader strategy along with other crisis management instruments, such as humanitarian action and, not least, diplomacy. There is a great need to formulate a political agenda for Iraq post-Da'esh. This must include measures for reconciliation and state-building, and Swedish aid will be an important part of this. I support the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Sweden's continued and increased participation in the military operation in Iraq. With the approval of the proposal in the report, the Riksdag acknowledges that the Government will make available a Swedish armed force of up to 220 persons until 31 December 2017. The mandate for the operation is based on an Iraqi invitation to participate in training efforts carried out by the global coalition against Daish.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-63	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, the changed security policy situation in our neighbourhood cannot be an excuse for Sweden to back off international military and civilian efforts. Nor must the development of our own territorial defence lead us to isolate ourselves and look inward unilaterally. The rest of the world is concerned that we must remain prepared to take international responsibility and contribute our abilities in order to have a safer and more stable world. Madam President, I would like The Center Party therefore considers it urgent that Sweden continues to participate in the military training operation in Iraq. The situation remains serious, and it also affects us in Europe and in Sweden. The last time we debated in this House the question of Sweden's continued involvement was in December. Now there is a proposal from the government to continue with an armed force of up to 220 people. This time the mandate is until New Year's Eve 2017. As a nation, we will participate in the military training operation carried out by the global coalition against Daish. The effort has now been going on for three years, and it is important for regaining control, for people to have security and for building a stable, democratic and more open society. It is about defeating Daish and groups with links to different terrorist groups and punishing the crimes that are going on, also in the future. It is an operation with a mandate in international law to take the necessary measures to prevent and counter terrorist acts. The fact that the Swedish contribution could have a larger number is important. In December, when this was last discussed, we were not prepared in this House to give an open mandate for further work. Now the government has returned, and there is more information about the location, task and security of the mission. It will be an addition with more tasks, including in the areas of health care, detection of improvised explosive devices, handling of incidents involving chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear substances, and also training in combat in settlements. We believe that this development of the contribution is important. Ultimately, we are helping to ensure respect for human rights, to have a sound overall view and to strive for long-term results. In order for Sweden to be able to do the best possible work and reach as far as possible in results, it is important that we can in the best possible way take part in evaluations and develop the instruments in an active monitoring and evaluation work. There's more to do here. We in the Alliance agree that we should see more clear and concrete targets from the government regarding the ongoing and continued efforts. We can take part in evaluations of previous operations in Afghanistan, among others. There you can see that more can be done when it comes to presenting strategies for both ongoing and new initiatives. The Iraq case is one example. For us, it is important to call for clearer objectives from the government and for a clear feedback and follow-up to be provided to the House on the implementation of the operation and on the lessons to be drawn from the efforts that are being carried out. I support the proposal and thank you for the floor.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-74	Madam President, I would like Simply put, the Left Party supports the bill for the continuation of the Swedish Peshmerga training force, which in Iraq is fighting against Daish. I could stay there, but of course I have to use the time more. I support the committee's proposal. It has sometimes been questioned whether there is a crystal clear international legal support for this effort. That's what we're saying. In June 2014, in a letter to the UN Secretary-General, Iraq requested assistance to combat Daish through, among other things, training support, as Mrs Pernilla mentioned, and also material support for the Iraqi defence. In August 2014, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2170 on measures against Daish. Iraq welcomed military support in the fight against Daish by letter to the President of the United Nations Security Council in September 2014. In November 2015, the Security Council adopted a resolution calling on Member States with capacities to take the necessary measures, in accordance with international law, in particular the Charter of the United Nations, human rights, refugee law and humanitarian law, including in Iraq, to strengthen and coordinate their efforts to prevent and counter terrorist acts committed by, among others, Daish. We believe that there is international legal support for the operation, although the Iraqi Government has major problems with an important criterion, namely control over the territory. Having said that, however, we are extremely critical of the process leading up to the formation of Daish and the need to fight them. Once in a while, it would be nice to hear some self-criticism, especially from representatives of the Alliance, that it was lies and crimes of international law that led up to the war against Iraq and that it was exceptionally foolish to suggest that the JAS plane should be sent there to assist the US coalition. In the light of the experience of Iraq, but also of the NATO-led wars in Afghanistan and Libya, it is increasingly clear: it is usually not exercises, armaments and wars that lead to happiness and prosperity or even peace, speaking of some theories about what secures peace also in our neighbourhood. NATO is not a peace organisation. The worst has been failed in Afghanistan and Libya. And in Iraq, the U.S. war against terrorism has not directly reduced the same, it has had exactly the opposite effect and in the next step created the huge waves of refugees that Sweden, too, is now going to close the borders. I will listen carefully and would be genuinely happy if there was something of a reflective self-criticism. In that case, I shall publicly express my appreciation for it.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-81	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved, as Stig Henriksson has done. My assessment is that there is no military operation that is as morally and humanitarianly urgent as the one that is currently, hopefully, coming to an end in the area in which the Swedish operation is to take place. Mattias Ottosson said that terrorist attacks are likely to follow even after a military victory over IS. I'm a little more hopeful about it. I do not believe that it can be ruled out that the increased frequency of terrorism that the world has seen in recent weeks is a more or less desperate result of the successes of the global coalition now. Hopefully, there is a final death toll from the disgusting organization that Daish/ IS constitutes. I welcome the doubling of the Swedish effort and the new focus on health care and CBRN. The Liberals have been proposing for a few years here in Parliament in connection with these proposals that these elements should also be included, not least because, on a personal visit to the operating area, the Minister of Defence concluded that Peshmerga is affected by chemical weapons, among other things. Madam President, I would like Björn Söder and the Swedish Democrats are opposed to an increase in the effort and argue instead of helping people humanitarianly where they are located in these conflict areas. I've always had a hard time making that logic go together. I was amazed for many years when the Swedish Democrats wanted to call home Swedish troops from Afghanistan to help with aid. Björn Söder and the Swedish Democrats! Among other things, it is through peace-promoting operations, I believe, that it is actively helping to reduce the need for escape for people around the world. Perhaps the migration wave that we saw in autumn 2015 can be partly linked to a reduction in military engagement in Afghanistan. The Swedish Democrats also have a reservation regarding a financial compensation to the Swedish Armed Forces for the international efforts. Then I would like to inform the Swedish Democrats that we have an allocation for international efforts where funds are set aside. If that money is not spent, they will burn inside and be returned to the Treasury. So I find it hard to understand that requirement. Madam President, I would like If you read the bill and the report carefully, you will notice that we had ambitions to quickly group ourselves also in southern Iraq, at the Al Asad base. Now it turned out to be easier said than done. It is clear from the bill that one must have a forward view of 18 - 24 months. This, together with the fact that after the coalition meeting last summer 2016 the Minister for Defence came home and promised a Swedish health care operation, which will not now materialise, makes it necessary to ask what planning and foresight the government has in these contexts. The SD also finds it unfair that other parties in the composite committee do not agree to have measurable targets and evaluation targets for the operation. Madam President, I would like It is my firm opinion that we need to take a holistic approach to national Evaluatable objectives for all the actions that Sweden is involved in. According to the report to the composite committee, work is now under way in the Government Office. It is my hope that we will be able to come back to this problem.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-92	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman questions our reasoning on helping people on the ground and opposing a doubling of this contribution. In the phase of the operation against IS, the western parts of the Mosel, the old town and so on are fighting. The Iraqi part of Kurdistan is relatively stable at the moment. The Minister for Foreign Relations told us in talks that they want to get help in dealing with the refugee situation in the area rather than allowing refugees to get to Europe and then Sweden. He specifically told us that when we were visiting there. All in all, it is reasonable for us to increase the humanitarian effort to deal with the refugee crisis in the region while the action is underway – at the stage at which it is now underway. After all, we are not opposed to the operation, but we are opposed to the increased contribution, which we consider to be completely unconsidered. During his visit to Erbil, Stefan Löfven promised this contribution in the moment, without it being planned or there being a confirmed need. This has since been demonstrated by the treatment of this whole case. You decide to expand the number of the force, but you don't know where to place it. In my world it is assumed that there is a need and that it is confirmed where the need is. Then it is decided to increase the effort based on that need. When I have had talks with the Swedish Armed Forces, they have asked themselves questions. You don't want to confirm, but you don't want to deny that this is really something that Stefan Löfven promised on the spot without having thought it through. We believe that the need right now is to increase humanitarian efforts in Iraq and to retain the strength that has previously been enjoyed in 35 soldiers.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-97	Madam President, I would like I believe, of course, that there is a need for both a military operation and humanitarian, civilian action in parallel. During the time we worked in Afghanistan, I made myself an interpreter for this a number of times in this House. But what I do not quite understand is how the unwillingness to increase military intervention and unwillingness to remain can be reconciled with the idea that fewer people should be on the run. It is my firm opinion, Madam President, that creating security in the operational areas reduces the need for escape for individuals. Neither the Deputy nor the Secretary of State can control people's behaviour. Those who feel a need to flee will flee, perhaps regardless of humanitarian and civilian efforts. Björn Söder says there is no need for an extension. As it looks, Daish is about to defeat t. Not least the fighting in Mosul shows that it can still be relatively prolonged. We have received reports in recent days that IS is now regrouping forces from ar-Raqqa to other areas in Iraq. We should not take final success for granted. It is our duty, together with in practice all other Western countries, to do what we can in this area of operation. It is my assessment, Madam President, not least in view of what Björn Söder himself has said, that the needs are endless.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-102	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that doubling the Swedish effort will be a decisive factor in the final battles in western Mosul. Actually, I don't think so. We are not opposed to the bet. We have been in favour of it from the very beginning. We want the Swedish operation to remain in Iraq until further notice in the number previously held on 35 soldiers. Why do we not agree to an increased effort? It is, of course, a burden on the Swedish defence capability and the Swedish defence. That's the way it is. It is true that there is an account reserved for international operations that would be charged. But there will be indirect costs for the Swedish defence. There are materials that will not be returned. There are soldiers who could have stayed in Sweden and built up the Swedish defence capability in place here. These indirect defence costs are not charged to the account for international operations. Then we know that the account for international efforts is heavily charged. We therefore propose that the government should provide more money to the defence to compensate for the indirect costs. Allan Widman usually says that you should vote for your own policy. That's what we do. We have proposed increased funding to the Swedish Armed Forces, among other things, as compensation for the indirect costs. But I want to get back to the situation in Iraq. You actually get to listen to those who are down there. You cannot live in your own bubble here in Sweden and believe that if we increase immigration and the reception of refugees here we solve the problems down there. The Minister for Foreign Relations has appealed to Sweden. What we can provide in this situation is increased humanitarian efforts to help refugees in the Kurdish parts. Then you have to listen to it, I think. That is why we are proposing to increase these efforts, but not to double the number.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-109	Madam President, I would like I don't want to be overtook and say that doubling the Swedish effort will be crucial, but I think it will matter. No one can do anything, but everyone can do something. I think there is a fundamental obligation to do as much as you can. I believe that this is what the government is now proposing and which Parliament will most likely support. As regards the allocation for international action 6.1.2 it has been a problem for a number of years that it has not been able to spend the money that has been allocated specifically to international efforts. Then it is a number of hundred million crowns that unfortunately are withdrawn from the defence budget. However, during the current financial year, the actions will be financed from this appropriation. If you compensate in other ways, the money will be returned to the Treasury. So it's going to be a zero-sum game. You can think what you want, but that's what it looks like right here and now. Therefore, the Swedish democrats' claim is fundamentally wrong or at least illogical. It should also be borne in mind that our international efforts, not least during the so-called strategic timeout, have played a major role in Sweden's operational capabilities. There have been sharp efforts far from home where things have had to work. Madam President, I would like Without these international efforts, it is my opinion that the Swedish defence would be considerably weaker than it is now. Studies carried out by the Swedish Armed Forces also show that the international efforts are important for us to recruit young men and women also for the national defence. That is why I am sorry that the Swedish Democrats did not come with us. Finally, Björn Söder said that we did not vote for our own policy. Neither did Björn Söder in the Mali case.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-115	Madam President, I would like What we are discussing today is continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. Let me begin by calling for the motion to be approved on behalf of the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like The time we find ourselves in is a very worried one. Islamic terror plagues people around the face of the earth. I think that many of us in Sweden are looking at the mobile phone in the morning to see what has happened during the night and if there has been any new terrorist attack. Unfortunately, there have all too often been new reports. They have come from London, Manchester, Paris, Baghdad and Jerusalem. We have also had a terrorist attack here on Drottninggatan, when five people had to put their lives to death. In many cases, the tracks lead directly to IS/ Daish. Madam President, I would like Sweden has many reasons to act, and we are now part of the international coalition. Today's proposal is an extension, a doubling. This is right. The Christian Democrats believe that we should act. Sweden has done good things, and we should be able to do even more. However, this is an important part. Let us take Iraq as an example. There's a genocide going on. Christian and other minorities are the victims of genocide. So there is every reason to act. As previous speakers have said, it is to be hoped that the international coalition is in a final stage with the introduction of Mosul. The situation is still terrible. There could be up to 200,000 civilians left. Many flee and are killed by Isis during the flight. At the moment, the international coalition is a success. Let's hope what we see is death-stricken. We don't know, but let's believe it. The Swedish effort will then be very important by continuing to educate, equip and help where we can. This would not be possible without individual people, the soldiers. Since 1949 Sweden has made a number of international military efforts. Swedish men and women have risked their lives for other people's freedom. This is part of the whole thing. Let me conclude by addressing soldiers, both those who are there now and those who have made other international efforts, and relatives: Thank you for your efforts! It has meant a lot and means a lot at the moment – not least during the effort that is going on in Iraq and that is to be expanded.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-122	Madam President, I would like Many of the ethnic minorities in Iraq have been hit very hard. Of Christians, if we take them as examples, there are only a few left in life. They are as few as a few hundred thousand; there is a figure that says 180 000. Previously, they were over a million. In our follow-up motion, we have proposed that efforts should also be made to include other groups in the global coalition's effort in northern Iraq than just the Iraqi security forces and the Peshmerga units. We believe, among other things, that the Christian groups in the Nineves plain should be helped, which today need to lean towards private security companies and donations in order to provide their own security. Of course, it can be said that this is not part of the global coalition's efforts that are only there to support the Iraqi security forces at the invitation of the Iraqi Government. However, we have put forward the proposal that at least the Christian groups should also be included in order to increase their defence capacity. It is a little strange that the Christian Democrats cannot support such a proposal. The party name suggests that they should be able to support the Christians and their situation, including in the Middle East. One should be able to direct the government to include the Christian groups in its discussions. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mikael Oscarsson why it is so quiet on the part of the Christian Democrats about this and why they do not want to back up the Swedish Democrats' proposal to also work to include the Christian Groups in this.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-127	Madam President, I would like Björn Söder knows very well that the Christian Democrats have been acting for a long time and for many years for minorities in general, and especially Christian minorities. We have not least informed about the situation in Mosul. We have acted in the European Parliament, led by Lars Adaktusson, and made clear impressions. We have brought with us a majority in the European Parliament to see this as genocide and in different ways to act. Björn Söder knows, of course, that this is the case. The special opinion, which the Christian Democrats are in favour of, is about pointing out that there is a need for an evaluation in a comprehensive approach.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-129	Madam President, I would like I know that you in the Christian Democrats have done a great deal. Above all, Lars Adaktusson has done much in the European Parliament for the situation of Christians. Of course, you should have all the credit for that. But that does not really answer my question as to why you do not support our motion which reads as follows: The Riksdag supports the motion that the government should work to ensure that Christian self-defence groups are included in the coalition's support efforts, and this announces the Riksdag to the government. This is a very concrete request that we should also work to include the Christian self-defence groups. I do not understand and did not receive an answer from Mikael Oscarsson, Madam President, as to why the Christian Democrats cannot back this up, if they are as concerned about the situation of Christians as they say. I know they are in many other contexts. I would like an answer from Mikael Oscarsson on why the Christian Democrats cannot support the Swedish Democrats' proposals in this regard and perhaps also work within the Alliance to bring the other parties along. Then we could have had an announcement. The Christian Democrats have every opportunity to bring their colleagues on such a proposal within the Alliance network.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-133	Madam President, I would like This report concerns continued Swedish participation in the military training operation. As Björn Söder is fully aware, it is about an increased effort to train units in areas such as healthcare, detection of improvised explosive devices, handling of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear substances and so on. Together with the other alliance parties, we are in a special opinion on the need for clearer evaluation, as happened in Afghanistan, and clearer objectives. Björn Söder can be sure that the Christian Democrats continue the struggle to be a clear voice for the minorities persecuted only because they are Christians and against the genocide that is going on.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-136	Madam President, I would like Daish is an organization that stands for barbarity and inhumanity. It must be fought, and a military victory is necessary. The final battle has begun in Mosul, and the battles have begun in Ar Raqqa. It is necessary for Sweden to make its contribution to the international coalition and to participate in the international efforts to combat this barbaric organisation. I am proud that today we can present a doubling of the Swedish contribution. This has emerged from a discussion with the others in the coalition about what are currently the most important efforts. It has been assessed in different ways from time to time. For some time it was considered that healthcare interventions would be of significant importance from the Swedish side. Now we have come to the conclusion – and that is what the proposal is about – that the effort should double, focusing on chemical, radiological and nuclear substances, where Sweden has a special competence and can make an excellent contribution. Sweden's commitment to Iraq is broad and long-term. Our Iraq policy follows three main tracks. The first is political and aims to support long-term and sustainable policy solutions through an inclusive political process. The UN has a particularly central role to play in supporting this work. We therefore support UNamis and the UNDP's efforts for national reconciliation, through both political and financial means. The second track in our support for Iraq is aid. Sweden is a major humanitarian donor to Iraq, and a new five-year strategy for Iraq with a focus on peace and state building and gender equality will be launched in the second half of 2017 and will cover up to SEK 1 billion. The third, finally, is the military track, which aims to assist the Iraqi defence forces and resist and finally defeat Daish. International law and human rights are an integral part of our effort, as is UN Security Council Resolution 1325. It is necessary for the international community to defeat Daish together. This must be done militarily, but also requires a broader approach to the efforts and the management of political root causes of the conflict. The international community has a responsibility to assist Iraq in this. The territory withdrawn must be stabilised. In the short term, this means the reconstruction of infrastructure and the provision of basic public services, not least in order to enable the return of internally displaced persons. In the long term, inclusive political and economic reforms are needed to enable national reconciliation and prevent the emergence of new terrorist groups or Daish from re-establishing. The government, as I said earlier, supports UNDP's stabilisation fund, Funding Facility for Immediate Stabilization, to contribute to reconstruction and enable IDPs to return to liberated areas. In particular, support concerns basic reconstruction, infrastructure, capacity support, livelihoods and reconciliation. Iraq's ownership is particularly emphasised. In 2016, SEK 90 million was given, and in 2015 SEK 35 million was given. Sweden is also promoting increased EU involvement in long-term stabilisation efforts in Iraq. Sweden is one of the largest donors of unallocated support to the core budgets of the UN humanitarian organisations. The flexible nuclear support allows humanitarian actors to act quickly and effectively to respond to humanitarian needs in crises such as that in Iraq. The largest recipient of core humanitarian aid from Sweden is the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR), which receives SEK 750 million in Swedish core support this year. This makes Sweden the UNHCR's single largest donor of nuclear aid. UNHCR plays a central role, not only in taking care of the many people forced to flee Daish, but also in enabling them to return home when the conflict ends. This is therefore very important. Our contribution in this context is much greater and broader than the military effort alone. Support for UNDP's stabilisation fund d, which so far amounts to SEK 125 million, is also considered important to help IDPs return to their homes. The safe return of IDPs depends on providing them with support and stability. Efforts to build up basic public services and infrastructure in the areas repatriated are therefore important and complement humanitarian aid. Sweden also provides significant targeted humanitarian support to Iraq through Sida. Since 2014, Sweden has assisted Iraq with more than SEK 400 million in humanitarian aid. In 2016 alone, our humanitarian aid amounted to over SEK 200 million. So we are working in a broad field on these issues, and we do not see the military effort as being monotonous. It is not easy to deal with these difficult issues; there are no simple solutions, no matter what we might say in the Swedish parliament sometimes. I would like to emphasise that we are making our contribution and making a broad effort, and we are also trying to be involved in dealing with refugee issues on the ground. The military situation on the ground is currently such that Daish has lost more than 50 percent of the territory conquered since 2014. The Iraqi security forces are making progress, and Daish has failed to recapture any territory. In Mosul, the eastern part of the city is now liberated. People begin to return, and children go back to school. The battles in Western Mosul, which we see as encircled, are ongoing and are in the final stages. It is clear that much remains to be done in these contexts and that the coalition must have clear support. So we are now facing an extension and an extension of our contribution to the training effort in Iraq. I'm proud of it. Sweden, as I said earlier, will, among other things, train the units in relation to chemical substances and have an international prominent role in this area. It is good that we can contribute with that competence. When it comes to the location of the unit, the idea is that the newly added part of our contribution should be placed at the Al Asad base. There is a need and demand for the education allowance. It is important to be open from the Swedish side in a flexible way so that the Swedish force can be located in different places, and that is why we want a broader mandate on this point. By being able to place this at the Al Asad base near Baghdad, the effect of the Swedish contribution is increasing, but it is still only about education. The geographical location has no impact on the mandate. Geographical flexibility does not mean that we are leaving northern Iraq. Then, of course, when it comes to organising the new contribution, it is in agreement and reasoning with the other coalition and depends on when different rotations occur on the basis. So there are many practical aspects to the way in and out of units; I want this made clear so that we do not become too principled on this issue. Since autumn 2014, the international coalition has trained around 65 000 soldiers and commanders within the Iraqi defence forces. Sweden has trained 900 people since August 2015, according to the parliamentary mandate that applies. It is about health care, the laws of war, international law, fighting in buildings and detection of improvised explosive devices. These are knowledge that has been imparted and that has been very useful. We must be clear that these are difficult missions. It is a dangerous area and a complex situation, with many different types of security threats that have regional ramifications and implications. It is therefore very important that in the Riksdag, when sending men and women on this type of mission, you are clear with your unequivocal support for this – that you stand up for what you have done and what is necessary. I would also like to say that, in various international contacts, I have been on site in Erbil in November 2015 and in contacts that I have had since then with the Iraqi side from time to time, and I have learned that in various ways I am very pleased with the Swedish effort. It has been a privilege for me to visit the area and take part of what they say from both the Kurdish and the Iraqi sides and also to meet the Swedish unit. The Swedish unit is an appreciated part of the coalition of representatives of the Iraqi state. I share the view that this effort, like the Afghanistan operation, should be evaluated and that a summary of the experiences that can be drawn should be submitted to Parliament in a report. This is not a controversial issue at all. Then you can discuss an appropriate time. I don't know if a year and a half is the optimal time span to do the evaluation. But that question can be considered, and I am open to reasoning on that point. At least it is important to draw conclusions from what we have experienced so that we can take them with us in different ways in a future in other efforts so that we can constantly improve. There is an extremely important thing to say. We bring with us an important experience capital for the Swedish Armed Forces when we participate in various types of international operations. Although the focus is on national defence, the expertise created in practice from international operations has a direct positive effect on Swedish defence capabilities. That is my firm opinion.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-158	Madam President, I would like A peace agreement was signed in Mali in the summer of 2015. The agreement is now being implemented with the support of the UN stabilisation operation Minusma. The Swedish unit has a central and important role in this peace process. Unfortunately, however, it is a slow process. With this, it is more important than ever that the UN is there, that Sweden is there, to support and assist. This is not a simple mission either. As emerged in the debate on Iraq, it is a complex situation with major security threats, numerous regional ramifications and unforeseen events. We've seen over the past year how Minusma has been subjected to attacks. During the spring there have been four attacks with indirect fire against the supercamp and the Swedish camp in Timbuktu. The attack on 3 May resulted in a slightly wounded Swedish soldier. Unfortunately, the attack also resulted in several wounded comrades at the supercamp and a fallen Nigerian soldier. The Swedish unit has shown a very good leadership during and after the attacks. The Swedish unit has reacted immediately and has not shown any signs of giving in to terrorist threats. That is also why it is important that we are in place. The Swedish unit inspires trust among our international colleagues when it clearly shows that it does not give in or give in. The attacks have also shown that the Swedish unit is properly trained and trained and that the right abilities are in place in the form of medical care and resources for investigating the attacks. The image and reputation of the Swedish contribution in Mali is widely known. Last October I had the privilege of receiving Mali's Minister of Defence, now the country's Prime Minister. He knew well what the Swedish unit in Timbuktu stood for. The Swedish state is still appreciated by both the UN and the representatives of the Malian state. I have, in many different contexts, had very constructive discussions on what the Swedish contribution actually means at the Ministry of Defence meetings on UN peacekeeping o perations at the UN headquarters in New York and in direct contact with Malian representatives. There have been very constructive discussions where it has emerged that Sweden is bringing a new competence to the UN system in terms of intelligence opportunities. The work represents a particular confidence in us in relation to the UN. These are skills that the UN system has previously lacked. The Swedish unit grant is an important part of building the UN's competence in the field of intelligence. Few countries within the UN system have the opportunity to participate with such advanced units as Sweden. That is why our contribution will be an important part of the overall picture. It has been proposed that, under normal circumstances, the Swedish contribution should continue to amount to approximately 320 persons and include an intelligence company, a so-called ISR company, intelligence, s urveillance and r econnaissance, with associated staff and logistics function. The task of the Swedish intelligence contribution is to provide Minusma with qualified intelligence aimed at fulfilling the mandate of the Security Council and supporting the peace process. Through our intelligence contribution, Sweden can both develop the UN's intelligence capabilities and also contribute with experience to other countries. In addition to our intelligence contribution, a time-limited contribution is also proposed with tactical transport flights to the operation in the form of a TP 84 and associated operations and maintenance staff. The allowance also includes a guard. The total staff allowance related to air transport capacity comprises 60 persons. The grant is implemented as a joint rotation grant with Norway, Denmark, Belgium and Portugal. The objective of the joint contribution is to provide the operation with a long-term transport capacity. All of you who have visited the operation on site know how important the capacity is. The distance is long, and the terrain is challenging. According to the plan, that part of the aid will last from November 2017 to April 2018. Madam President, I would like The Swedish unit operates in a complex environment with many actors in an extreme climate and an area with inadequate infrastructure. It has brought important experience to the unit and helped to develop its own ability. That is something we want to build on. An improved ability to act with other countries and organisations is an important aspect. For over 60 years, the blue helmets have contributed to a more peaceful and safer world. I would like to thank the soldiers and officers who, with great professionalism and great courage, are working unconditionally to create security and stability. I would also like to take this opportunity to turn my thanks to all the relatives who have supported our soldiers at home. Without the tireless efforts of relatives, the efforts of our soldiers are not possible. It was a great experience to visit the unit in Mali, but it has also been nice experiences to meet the soldiers who come home after completing the service, participate in various medals and perceive their pride in carrying out missions. It is important that Sweden is included in these contexts and that Sweden contributes to peace and stability in various areas around the world. The UN Minusma operation is crucial for the stability of Mali. We shall be proud of the good judgements that our units have received from the Malian government and the UN on the ground and at headquarters in New York.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-171	Madam President, I would like Sweden and Swedish soldiers are valued players in international efforts. That's right because our soldiers are top class. Today there are just under 400 Swedes in international military operations, of which the Malian operation, Minusma, is by far the largest with just under 260 soldiers. During December 2014, personnel from the Swedish intelligence base t 01 began arriving at the future c ampen outside Timbuktu. At that time, the Mali 00 establishment force set up by Ing 2 had been working on building the camp since November of the same year. Now Mali 06 from I 19 in Boden and Arvidsjaur has just taken over, so there has been some rotation. In this report, Swedish participation in the United Nations Stabilisation Mission in Mali, we extend the operation for another year until the end of June 2018. During six months starting at the end of 2017, the force will also be expanded by 60 people and a transport plane, TP 84 Hercule, to contribute to air transport in Mali. I agree with the Minister for Defence that air capacity is important – it's a large country, and it's a long way. We who were in Mali a while ago flew, and I would have liked to have flown with a Swedish Hercules plane. The majority of the Swedish contribution in Mali is located in Timbuktu, where the main task of the operation is intelligence. The Swedish unit also includes a medical unit, an analysis unit and operation and maintenance. Madam President, I would like It is claimed that this is the most dangerous UN operation since it in Congo in the 1960s, and the security situation in Northern and Central Mali has deteriorated significantly since 2016. In November 2016, 75 UN soldiers had been killed in Mali since the start of the operation in 2013. The Swedes with their much better equipment and perhaps even education have thankfully been spared. Madam President, I would like However, on 3 May this year an attack occurred in connection with the Swedish camp in Timbuktu. Fortunately, only one soldier was injured, and it was relatively mild. It could have gone a lot worse. However, as the Minister of Defence mentioned, the camp next door was a little worse. Last week there was another attack, then against the so-called supercamp. Then Sweden's camp survived without any damage. We can only say that the situation is tense. Madam President, I would like The week before the attack at the camp in May, we, some MPs from the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee, visited Mali. We were in Timbuktu and got a good picture of the situation while on site we could feel the difficult mission our soldiers have. Timbuktu is one of the world's warmest places, so as long as it's a challenge. To wear heavy protective equipment at about 50 degrees Fahrenheit is nothing one can consider as a walk in the park. When we were there on patrol, we were wearing a vest weighing about 12 kilos and a helmet. I can tell you it was enough. Our soldiers have far more equipment on them. Going on patrol is a challenge in itself, as roads are very scarce. Much of the transport goes over sand and dunes – Timbuktu is located in the southern Sahara. It is not often you get stuck in the dunes and have to dig out the Galten, which is the vehicle you are transporting yourself in. What I noticed during my trip was that I had learned to read the dunes relatively well and was able to avoid the worst places with sla s sand. Now it's up to Mali 06 to learn the same thing. At the Swedish camp in Timbuktu we also have a very good medical unit. It serves as everything from a health centre to an advanced surgery unit. The challenge for the health care unit is to be able to staff it with competent staff. It is currently solved by having shorter rotations. For a while we also borrowed doctors from Finland. The crux of the matter, however, is not health care, but how possibly injured soldiers should be treated quickly. I have been on the subject of Medevac ever since our first force came into place, that is, medical evacuation. For this you need helicopters. That was a contributing reason we bought 16 Black Hawk helicopter for Afghanistan. Now this is a UN operation and, consequently, something that the UN should stand for. There have been many trips on this issue, from no helicopters to helicopters that could only fly daytime and so on. Now there are helicopters, two if I am properly informed, standing at Timbuktus airport. We saw some helicopters there; I assume it was them. The problem that exists today – and unfortunately will still exist in the future – is the UN bureaucracy. Requisition of a helicopter takes at best a few hours and at worst several days. It's not satisfactory. Because the Medevac situation looks like it does, the patrol action radius is severely limited to a maximum of two hours from the camp. As I mentioned earlier, there are not exactly any motorways you have to transport on, so everyone can figure out that you don't get very far from the camp. If you're going to patrol further away, an FST, forward surgical t eam, must come with you. It's a mini hospital loaded on two trailers behind the G altars. FST, i.e. forward surgical t eam, consists of a tent with the possibility of surgical procedures and everything that comes with it. So it's advanced, what you bring out. Everyone can figure out that it is both staff-intensive and complicated. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to mention the soldiers within our contribution that we have placed in Bamako. They have a logistics function and make sure that the camp in Timbuktu gets all the necessary supplies – an important job that is often easily forgotten. Madam President, I would like We Moderates are, of course, behind the bill and participation in the UN-led operation in Mali. However, we have a reservation with the other alliance parties and the Left Party concerning the evaluation of the operation. We maintain that the Swedish effort within the framework of Minusma should be evaluated and continuously analysed, especially considering that the government announces that the Swedish contribution to the Minus Main movement should be long-term. A well-carried out analysis can provide important lessons for future engagement in areas such as governance, civil-military collaboration, collaboration with the recipient country's authorities, effects on Swedish competence and ability, and results at a societal level in the recipient country. A prerequisite for carrying out an evaluation is to pursue only objectives. A major evaluation of the Swedish operation in Afghanistan has just been presented. It shows, among other things, that some goals were unrealistic. We therefore believe that the government should urgently monitor national targets only for the Swedish operation and explain how it intends to evaluate these targets. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mali 05 for the visit we made down there – it was very instructive and gave us a lot – and wish Mali 06 good luck. Take care of yourselves! With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-189	Madam President, I would like What I am going to say is one thing I had intended to touch on in my opening speech. We will come back from the government's side on the evaluation issue and follow up on this reasoning and the announcement that exists in the Riksdag on that part. We shall therefore come back to that point. I have noted that there are such requests. The matter of target formulations is always an interesting one. One can say this: If you have a comprehensive coat, the aim of the Swedish effort is to contribute to the fulfilment of Minusma's mandate under the Security Council resolution, thereby contributing to improved security in Mali and to supporting sustainable solutions to the crisis in the country. It includes the Swedish force as part of a larger whole, and our specific task is to deliver an intelligence contribution to the overall effort. I guess it's somewhere in this heresy you have to move when you formulate these things. With regard to the health service which has been repeatedly discussed, I do not know how many times I have raised this in various variants with the UN and its representatives. Most recently on my trip to the United States, I brought it up with the representatives of the United Nations. But we can also note that at the moment there is a civilian contractor who also has the ability to fly in the dark. So we have no differences of opinion about this. Then it is not easy to always clear everything with immediate effect in relation to the UN. It is probably a problem that all ministers have experienced in one form or another.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-194	Madam President, I would like It would have been nice if the evaluation thing had come up in the composite committee. We would certainly have been able to agree on a good wording by then, and if so, we could have a more or less clean report. There is no reason why we should have reservations if they are not needed. We do not reserve ourselves for the sake of reservation, but to move forward. But it's good that something's coming. Then something's happened. That's great. I agree with the Minister for Defence that it is important to have realistic targets. We had Afghanistan investigator Tone Tingsgård with us in the committee with a very good draw. I'm very glad she got there– we got a completely different view of this than what has been mediated. It's a little boring with the media image, I think. Our efforts in Afghanistan have been important, and our soldiers have done a very good job, but it has appeared that this was not really the case. However, some goal formulations were slightly wrong, and it is important that you do the right thing. As for Medevac: These helicopters can fly in the dark, but the crux of the matter is that it takes so long. It is told that some soldier had been injured somewhere and that it had taken several hours before a helicopter was found. It's not satisfying. When we discuss trauma care here in Sweden, we talk about It's just as important to have the golden hour, whether you're in Mali's desert or on the roads around Sollefteå. But lie on, absolutely! You have to do something about the bureaucracy so that you can use helicopters. Maybe they should be able to be used for other purposes, too, not just for Medevac's ability.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-197	Madam President, I would like We can say that we agree on this with Medevac and the medical section and that we work for the same thing. Then it may be that we face the same kind of problems and obstacles as well. We will do what we can, and we have really tried to come across this issue in different ways. I have said what I needed to say about the evaluation issues. The government intends to come back in this context. I assume that this is done in a relevant and good way.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-199	Madam President, I would like I think that's good. It is important that a large majority of the Swedish Parliament agree on such efforts and at all on defence and foreign affairs. It's a strength that we are. I believe in you, Secretary of Defense, but I may be back in business, as you can see.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-200	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats see the UN as the primary cooperation body for managing conflicts and safeguarding peace and security in our world. A fundamental prerequisite for international action shall be a clear mandate from the UN Security Council. That is why we are also in favour of extending the Swedish operation in Mali. When we decide in Parliament to send Swedish soldiers abroad, we also take a great responsibility for their lives. Therefore, there must be high demands that the UN be able to organise such efforts and meet the demands that must be made. Otherwise, the UN risks losing its role. It will then be difficult for those of us who are in favour of UN-led efforts to justify why we should send Swedish soldiers to these efforts. In the case of Mali, we are all aware of the problems with the Medevac. Here we believe that the government must press for the UN to function better in its efforts in future. Madam President, I would like It is also important that the efforts have clear objectives and a well-thought-out strategy for the operation to contribute to peace and stability, but also that we can properly evaluate our own efforts. When the Government's bill 2015/ 16:119 was discussed in the Riksdag last year, the Riksdag endorsed what was stated by the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the need to evaluate and continuously analyse the efforts that Sweden is carrying out in Mali. The committee had then been informed that the Swedish Armed Forces continuously evaluate all efforts, both national and international. The committee considered that a well-carried out analysis could provide important lessons for future engagements in areas such as governance, civil-military cooperation, collaboration with the host country's authorities, effects on Swedish competence and ability, and results at a societal level in the host country. A prerequisite for carrying out an evaluation is that concrete and follow-up objectives have been formulated for the Swedish operation. The committee considered that the objective set out in the bill was not sufficient for this purpose and noted that the Government announced in the bill that it intended to return to the Riksdag with proposals for new Swedish contributions to Minusma and that in this context the Government should formulate follow-up objectives for the Swedish operation and indicate how it intends to evaluate it against the goals set. In bill 2016/ 17:128, which the committee has now discussed, the government writes: Nowhere, however, does it say that the Government intends to evaluate and analyse the operation continuously in accordance with previous parliamentary decisions after follow-up goals. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats believe that, as with other international efforts, there should be a proper evaluation and follow-up of the participation and that the Riksdag should be given a summary of the experience gained so far from the Swedish operation through a report. In the committee, we were therefore prepared to support the bourgeois motion that the government should come back and set concrete national targets by September 2017 in order to evaluate the efforts that Sweden is carrying out in Mali. We believe that committee reports on Swedish foreign operations should have a general demand for clear concrete objectives that can be followed up and evaluated. However, we noted that the majority of the committees, including the bourgeois parties, did not consider this in a report on the Swedish operation in Iraq that we debated earlier today. The bourgeois parties, who failed to demand this in their own motion, did not support our motion. We felt that both reports should take the same approach as regards requirements for objectives and evaluation. Thus we chose not to support the demands of the bourgeois parties. Instead, we note, like the majority of the committees, that the government in letter 2016/ 17:75, Parliament's letters to the government – actions in 2016, stated that the announcement concerned has not yet been finalised, and that the evaluator of the Afghanistan operation has proposed that a special function within the Government Office should be established and given responsibility for preparing proposals for a strategy for future international efforts, and that the overall strategy should set out the objectives, timelines and division of tasks and responsibilities for the various parts of the Swedish operation. I can only regret, Madam President, that the bourgeois parties remain in the sandbox and that prestige goes before getting their own policy through. We have seen this in so many other contexts this term of office that I am no longer surprised, although I hoped it would change. However, it deserves to be highlighted and illustrated to the electorate. For this very reason, we have given a specific opinion in the report. Madam President, I would like We have proposed that Sweden review which reinforcements of humanitarian efforts in Mali are relevant to help reduce the pressure on the civilian population. In 2017, 620,000 children in the region will need nutrition treatment. Particularly affected is the Timbuktu region, where 171⁄2 percent of the population suffers from acute malnutrition. In 2015, humanitarian aid amounted to SEK 64.7 million and in 2016 to SEK 62 million, despite the fact that the need for humanitarian aid has increased according to UN statistics. According to the UN today, some 3.7 million people in Mali are affected by food shortages and in need of humanitarian aid, which is almost a doubling compared to the last time this issue was raised in Parliament. I would therefore like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all our good soldiers who serve or have served in Mali. Thank you very much for your valuable contributions!
i-SYRpQkapsPWqmUTATBj7gr	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation No 1. Much has been said about the importance of this effort and its focus on achieving long-term results and stabilising the area, not least for peace and security. This is an important effort that we support, and we want to work to ensure that it has the greatest possible impact. We participate in European cooperation with efforts, as well as in UN work, and make concerted efforts to achieve the best possible results. I have admiration and gratitude for those who have served in previous operations, those who serve in the current operation and those who will serve in future operations and prepare for these tough missions. It is about cooperating with others and also taking the situations that meet our senders very seriously. It's a demanding environment. It is one of the toughest, as we have also heard told by those of our committee colleagues who have visited the operation on the ground in Africa. It is warmth, and it is a high level of conflict with terrorist attacks and attacks that affect the operations. This will be the fourth parliamentary decision to extend the mandate for the work of the operation. When we discussed and decided last year on the continuation of the operation, Parliament made two announcements. One was about following up only goals to be able to evaluate the efforts that Sweden is making within the framework of Minusma. The second was the necessary initiatives to ensure adequate access to medical evacuation within the framework of the operation. The Government comments and states that these letters are still being prepared within the Government Office. We can only conclude that the preparation has been going on throughout the year. One might ask how much time is actually needed to deal with this type of announcement in such an important effort. It should also be stressed how important it is to reconnect with the Riksdag and to develop the work. The Centre Party, together with several other parties in the Riksdag, remains committed to the view that the Swedish operation within the framework of Minusma should be evaluated and analysed on an ongoing basis, especially considering that it is an element that is said to be long-term. In order to be able to carry out an evaluation, it is necessary to formulate concrete and national targets for the Swedish operation. It is an important starting point not only for Parliament's work but for all public activities that we should be able to have as precise and concrete objectives as possible in order to achieve the best possible results and also to reconnect with the resource allocated in connection with an operation. We have taken note of the evaluation of the Afghanistan operation. As in the previous debate on Iraq, it is also here that there is a comprehensive approach to the whole commitment, in this case in Mali. One of the main tasks of the Swedish contribution is to deliver relevant and requested intelligence operations to the operation's intelligence unit and management. Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world. We start from and hope that our Swedish efforts will have the desired effect and can also contribute to stability in the area. I think that the development of both air transport contributions and the strong commitment that characterises our senders in the effort is positive. I would also like to express my warm thanks to all those involved and involved who are participating and will participate in this important effort.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-221	Madam President, I would like The bill is about Mali, but I will start by talking about the conclusions of the Afghanistan investigation. The security situation in Afghanistan today, it is said, is disappointing. The Afghan security forces are showing significant shortcomings. Swedish military efforts have failed to contribute to sustainable security. The investigation concludes that overall there is a very poor achievement of the Swedish commitment to Afghanistan during the period 2002-2014. Most things went badly or not at all, with one exception. The investigation considers that there is a satisfactory achievement of Sweden's credibility and ability as a participant in international military operations. Cooperation between NATO and Sweden as a partner country was developed. I hope that the underlying motive for the operation was not to be good in front of NATO. Well, it became a worse security situation for the Afghan population after the operation – all at the price of 18,2 or possibly 27.5 billion SEK; the span is quite large. The result was six dead Swedes and still today an unknown number of dead Afghans. It is a subset of the 25 000 who have died only in the last eight years, of which 11 500 died in 2016. Of them 3,500 were children. Then why am I talking about Afghanistan? Well, it is against this background that I have called for the approval of Mr Alliansen's Amendment No 1, which concerns objectives and evaluation. I will admit, however, that the proposal also contains wordings in the right direction, but they did not consider the committee to be full when they appeared at the previous bill. We should agree that this is also the case now, right? In order to be able to carry out an evaluation, it is essential that relatively concrete and, for our part, national targets have been set first. They're welcome to be time so set. It should be formulated for the Swedish initiative. The evaluation of the Afghanistan War also shows the importance of early identification of a comprehensive approach to the whole engagement. You should also like to have an idea of exit there. In the light of what we have learned, the government should formulate these objectives for the Malian operation as soon as possible and explain how it intends to evaluate the operation in relation to the objectives. This is of course important to us who make decisions. It is also important for those soldiers who, on our mission, risk their lives under pretty tough conditions in Mali. Many thanks to them and to others for participating in the various missions we are debating today! I say this because we fundamentally support the Swedish operation in Mali, which has become necessary not least because of the NATO operation in Libya which set the whole region on fire.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-229	Madam President, I would like I was unable to respond to Stig Henriksson's outcome to Sweden's various international efforts during the last 15 to 20 years due to lack of time in the previous debate. He claims that the results for Afghanistan and Libya were more deterioration than improvement. Of course, that can be discussed. There are indications of both outcomes. But what is the alternative, which is what Stig Henriksson seems to advocate in favour of an international commitment to peace, is that Sweden as a country should stand and watch Muammar Gaddafi let its artillery shoot straight into civilian hospitals in Benghazi. That can never be an option, can it? It is our duty to try to contribute and make the situation better and more humane, is it not? Nor did the Swedish democrats vote for their policy in the composite committee. It is just as Björn Söder says: he was prepared to support the Alliance's reservation in this report, but because the Alliance was not prepared to support his reservation on Iraq, he abstained. So he did not vote for his policy. The question, Madam President, is: who is sitting in the sandbox with buckets and shovels? National objectives alone are important. It is particularly important when these efforts are long-term and also highly lethal. The operation in Mali is the deadliest UN operation ever. We have now heard the Minister of Defence talk about his communication with both Ladsous and now Lacroix about the helicopter's goods and the possibilities for Medevac. And in the light of this spring's four grenade attacks on the so-called supercamp in Timbuktu, I now start to ask myself the question: When is it time for Sweden, like in Afghanistan, to add this important resource itself? It used to be called in Afghanistan that Gud is Swedish and that the Swedes have a huge luck in all contexts. Unfortunately, however, the accident may have arrived. If it lands a 12 centimetre grenade in a Swedish camp area, the outcome can be extremely serious and the criticism of the operation terrible. My question to the Minister for Defence is therefore: at what point is the government prepared to consider the addition of its own Medevac helicopters, as in Afghanistan? Many have today thanked the men and women who are making contributions internationally. I, too, want to do this. Unfortunately, I am not able to attend the medal ceremony in Lund next Friday, as I have an interpellation debate with the Minister for Defence. With that, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-WvSQTZSECQ66W8VwGXdQze	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-236	Mr President, I would like to We need to do a lot to strengthen Swedish schools, and in the autumn of 2015 we started the Moderates School Initiative, which has consisted of researchers, entrepreneurs, innovators and school leaders. With their expertise, everyone has provided valuable knowledge of how more people can learn more in school. At SvD Debate today we also propose more teaching time, a zero tolerance to bad schools and, above all, an extended schooling obligation for our newly arrived students. The previous alliance government's focus on knowledge with national tests, a clearer school team and grades from grade 6 has been crucial to strengthening students' knowledge. This has been confirmed in PISA, Timss and also in the Swedish National Agency for Education's evaluation of grades in grade 6. The evaluation concludes that previous grades have led to very positive things, and that is why we are very concerned about the government's way of managing the grade agreement. My question to Minister Gustav Fridolin is therefore: What does the Government intend to do to save the grade attempt so that it is possible to draw better and more substantiated conclusions from the experiment?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-240	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for the question! Yes, we must ensure that all students have the time they need with teachers and that teachers have time for their assignment. That's why we focus on investing in school. During the bourgeois years nearly 10,000 employees were cut off from Swedish school. It is of course the toughest for those students who need school and time with the teachers the most. In recent years 20 000 new employees have been employed in Swedish schools, and that is a good thing. It is true that we and the bourgeois parties made an agreement on grades. The agreement means that at schools where there is interest from the teaching staff and the headmaster would have the opportunity to try having grades and not individual development plans in grades 4 and 5. It was clear in the agreement that this must be based on volunteering, that no teachers who do not believe in testing previous grades, grades of ten years old, would have the opportunity to do so. We also set a limit at a maximum of 100 schools. By the end of the application period, 12 schools had applied to participate.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-243	Mr President, I would like to For us Moderates, agreements made are very important. From the very beginning, decisions were taken in S- and MP-controlled municipalities to clearly signal that they would not participate in this. Further comparisons with aesthetic learning processes have also been added, something that was not at all part of the agreement. The application period has also been made the shortest possible during a time when we know that the school is having a tough time.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-246	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to meet the Education Committee to discuss further how the experiment is to be developed and evaluated. What Camilla Waltersson Grönvall says, however, is not true. There are 12 schools that have applied. Two of them are municipal – a school in a municipality that is red-green and a school in a municipality governed by the alliance parties. It has been built on the fact that there is interest in those schools. For us, it has been crucial. If you are going to try using previous grades, there should be interest among teachers and also parents and students to try this. It's not supposed to be something you're forced to do.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-250	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the European Commission, through Commissioner for Economic Affairs Pierre Moscovici, made it clear that the European Commission wants all Member States to join EMU and the euro, which will not only lead to a loss of national monetary policy, but also in the near future will mean a common government debt and a common a-cash fund with other EU countries. Moscovici also said that there is an obligation for all Member States except Denmark to join EMU and the euro, although there is no longer a deadline.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-253	I would also like to ask whether the government, if it is supposed to be re-elected, wishes to make an electoral promise to fully defend the ruling in the Swedish referendum on EMU.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-254	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johnny Skalin, for the question! The government is very clear: it is the Swedish people who decide whether we want to enter the third stage of EMU. The Swedish people have voted against the third stage of EMU, and there is also respect for this among other EU countries and EU institutions. As regards the question of a formal derogation in the Treaties, a treaty negotiation is not on the table today. It should be based on negotiating the Treaty if such a thing could be considered, and there is no such negotiation going on. As I said, there is respect for the Swedish position among other EU countries. Everyone knows that we have had a referendum and that it ended in Sweden not adopting the euro.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-257	Mr President, I would like to If there is respect for the Swedish electorate, why has it not, like Denmark, called for a Swedish derogation when it comes to the introduction of EMU and the euro as a currency in Sweden? That is the first question. The second question is: is the government prepared to make an election promise that such an exemption will be introduced in future Treaty changes, which we can assume will take place in the near future or in any case within a few years?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-259	Mr President, I would like to The reason why no exceptions have been included in the Treaties during our term of government is that no new treaties have been negotiated for the EU during that time. It should also be said that in such negotiations it is clear that priority should be given, and in this particular case it is important that we are clear. The EU respects the fact that Sweden has said 'no' to EMU, a decision which, incidentally, I think was a good decision by Sweden. As far as electoral promises are concerned, Johnny Skalin may ask those questions to the individual parties. What my party thinks Johnny Skalin knows.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-262	Mr President, I would like to I believe that both Minister Fridolin and I as a center party are very passionate about the climate. Today, the government has announced that it will present a proposal on airline tax. There have been many and critical views on this proposal. Criticism has mainly focused on the fact that the tax may not have a climate effect, that it would only be fiscal and reduce people's mobility. Of 197 referrals received, 126 are directly de-vigilant and very negative. Among the respondents are the Institute of Economic Development, the Swedish Agency for Growth, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Energy Agency and others. My question to the Government is therefore: for what reason is the government persisting in a proposal for climate action for aviation, a flight tax that so clearly misses its climate target and is detrimental to people's mobility throughout the country?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-265	Mr President, I would like to There is one thing that is important to realise here: climate change is real. 2016 was the warmest year ever measured. Before that it was 2015, and before that it was 2014. Just before Christmas, it was almost zero in the Arctic. The researchers are now beginning to talk about preparing for the risks of an ice-free North Pole in the summer in only 20 years. Our opportunity to face up to this on time is to limit emissions in all countries and in all sectors. It doesn't work with the salvation! Therefore, I do not understand why Anders Åkesson should pay taxes for the fuel he fills the car with and pays for the electricity or fuel on which the trains go when he takes the train, but if he takes the flight it is tax-free. Where is the logic of that, Anders Åkesson?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-267	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister. Climate change is real both in the Arctic and in the Småland of water scarcity, Fridolin. I am well aware of that and am passionate about the same ambition to do something about it. When I refuel my car, I pay a lower tax because I choose a fuel that compensates for the environment. The airline tax, according to the investigation you have presented and built a bill on, is, in the worst case, completely without climate effects. For what reason does the government persevere with a near-immediate tax?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-270	Mr President, I would like to No, the study on the table states that with a flight tax we could reduce emissions by 180 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. It is not a slight decrease. Anders Åkesson can say that he has the same interest in environmental issues. But when we talked about the need to raise the CO2 tax, the Center was against it, and introducing taxes on heavy goods vehicles to transfer them to trains is also against. In the end, unfortunately, the Center is against. The Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Specific Competences of the Hearing of Children
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-272	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. There are many of us who have seen and heard and, not least, been horrified by the case of Kevin and the incredibly clear and frightening lack of child competence of those who would hear and interrogate the two small children who were suspected of the murder. Much has improved now, but it is far from good. The Liberals have previously put forward a proposal that those who hear children should have specific competence for this. The committee's response was that it is dealt with in the preparation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. I wonder if Åsa Regnér can confirm that this is the case.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-276	Mr President, I would like to Times change. For us in the government, it is important that children's rights are first and foremost. That is why we have announced and will shortly be presenting a proposal on how the Convention on the Rights of the Child can become Swedish law. We're preparing it now. It is a complicated piece of legislation, but we will come up with it. This is not the only thing we have done for three years in government. We have prepared a proposal on the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a Swedish law and commissioned the police, for example, to give priority to issues relating to children's safety, child abuse and so on. This means that authorities will have to make significant training efforts, including the police.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-278	Mr President, I would like to I wonder, of course, when we can see the proposal at Parliament's table. Earlier it was said that it would come in June this year, and now, after all, June is beginning to run out. It would be good if it came as soon as possible, so that we can discuss and think about it. Then I still wonder whether it is really certain that the specific issue of child competence among those who hear and interrogate children is included in the preparation.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President. This is a very important question. I share the ambition. We're going to present a bill. I really hope it will be in the near future. As I said, this kind of legislative work has never been done before. So it encounters problems that could not be predicted. But we're gonna do it. The proposal includes an absolute mandate for the relevant authorities to train themselves in what the Convention on the Rights of the Child means and to find good methods of meeting children in interrogation situations.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-282	Mr President, I would like to For a long time, people in our society who are in the greatest need of society's support have felt a strong and increasing concern about whether they should receive this support because a number of people have had their support withdrawn. This involves several different LSS operations, but not least it concerns assistance and assistance compensation. We have also seen that Försäkringskassan's decision means that there are now only one third as many as in 2014 that receive a positive decision when applying for the first time, i.e. down to 14% for January this year. I understand that the Government is prepared to change the law if it judges it necessary. My question is: if the government lands in such an assessment, when can we expect the corrected legislation to be in place at the latest?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-285	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I and the government have been very committed to personal assistance going to the people who need personal assistance, that the funds are used for it. But the judges will now be followed up to ensure that the effects of them do not shift reality from the intentions of the law. I have started a number of assignments and investigative work that I will receive during the autumn to see how the judges affect people, what happens to those people who are not covered by personal assistance according to the judges. And I am prepared to take the consequences of an analysis if it says that the judges have really moved reality and practice in relation to the intentions of the law. Of course, I want to do something about this, and then it is legislation that we have as a tool.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-288	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the government has now come to a point where one can say that one is prepared to look at a legislative change. But my question was about the timetable itself. As the assignments are directed, the large parts must be reported in December. Is it true, then, that we cannot expect any changes to the legislation this year, and probably not within a year from today?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-290	Mr President, I would like to As Parliament, which is in fact the legislator, has to submit quality legislative proposals and which are capable of examining, for example, the Law Council. To get such a quality basis, I have ordered various materials that will come from September to December. These will be available to us as a matter of urgency. If we see at the end of the year that we need to change the law, we will be prepared to do so as soon as possible. There's no need to delay.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-291	Mr President, I would like to At today's meeting of the Committee on Defence, the Committee was informed about the Aurora 17 military exercise, which will take place in the autumn between weeks 37 and 39. The exercise is the largest of its kind in 20 years and includes all combat forces and participation from a number of other authorities. It is usually said that practice makes perfect, and in the field of defence policy exercise also has a security policy signal effect. My question is: how does the Minister of Defence view the value of this exercise, and what security policy signals do we send with Aurora 17?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-294	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the exercise is about increasing Swedish defence capabilities, increasing the competence and capacity of the units. With 19,000 soldiers, planes, army and marines, it's the biggest exercise in 23 years. It is an extremely fine exercise in which 40 authorities are also involved on the civilian side. It will provide a good basis for evaluating both strengths and weaknesses within the framework of the Swedish total defence. This is the basis for the exercise. It is also a scenario that concerns the defence of Sweden. Together with invited guests from Nordic countries, the Baltics, France, the United States and Poland, the exercise will cover this scenario. Ultimately, it is a matter of signalling Swedish sovereignty and Swedish military capabilities and of building military capabilities.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-297	Mr President, I would like to During Aurora, host country support will be practised, i.e. the possibility of receiving military support from other nations and supporting these units with, for example, protection and logistics. What does the Minister of Defence think about those who believe that this with host country support and exercises with NATO countries, among other things, risks increasing tensions in our neighbourhood and exposing Sweden to increased risk?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-299	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we will practice giving and receiving help and support according to the decision that has been taken by a very large majority in the Riksdag. What scenarios and what exercise activities we choose is entirely our own decision. We have an offensive agenda that ultimately concerns respect for Swedish national sovereignty. That is not something that other countries can claim to be involved in deciding. It is about creating stability and long-term sustainability in our part of Europe. We are not contributing to increased tensions.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-301	Mr President, I would like to In 1994, health was added to the school's sports subject. However, the Parliament's decision was never followed up by measures that talked about what to do with this extra. The Swedish School Inspectorate has repeatedly shown that the subject of health has been treated rigidly. Recently, in a unique study with motion detectors, the Centre for Sport Research showed that only 22 percent of girls and 44 percent of boys move sufficiently. There is broad consensus among researchers that at least 30 minutes of pulse-enhancing activity per day is needed to promote good health, reduce the risk of chronic diseases and prevent premature death. The government has taken the initiative to increase the number of hours for sport and health, and it is therefore urgent to have clear objectives. Against this background, I wonder whether Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin is prepared to have a stated goal of daily mobility in the curriculum for sport and health.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-304	Mr President, I would like to I thank Karin Svensson Smith for the question. The curriculum states that schools should strive for pupils to move every day. It says there for a reason. We know that children who move not only establish good habits and that it is good for public health, but also learn better. Children who move every day are also more likely to concentrate on the last lesson of the day. Of course, it is a big gain for the school because it makes it easier to be a good teacher when the children can concentrate on the lessons. As we now increase the number of hours in sports and health, we will also try to strengthen the curriculum's wording on daily movement so that it becomes not only words but also reality and so that you have plans for how to ensure that all children move. For example, in some breaks you put down your mobile phones and play games that everyone is involved in.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-307	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply and welcome the fact that there is a clear objective of active mobility. Traffic analysis shows that cycling to school has decreased by 48 percent since 1984. The trend here is therefore in the opposite direction. I therefore welcome the fact that the government has taken the initiative for a collection of daily movements. This also requires cycling to and from school. There is a lot to happen during school hours, but the most important thing is to establish a habit of moving around through active mobility. Is the Minister prepared to work for it?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-310	Mr President, I would like to The easiest way to solve this would, of course, be for any child who can get to school by his own machine to do so. Many families explain that they are no longer cycling or going to school because they are concerned about the poor traffic situation at school. When you ask why the traffic situation is so bad, the answer is that everyone drives a car to school. This could be solved with something else in some places. Yes, this could be better, but it is not the school that should be responsible for how it is done.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-314	Mr President, I would like to About a month ago we were Moderates in the Committee on Defence in Gothenburg. Among other things, we met representatives of the Port of Gothenburg. The Port of Gothenburg is one of our most important ports to bring in various kinds of supplies in Sweden. The representatives expressed great concern that the Swedish Armed Forces do not have a mine clearance ship on the west coast because they are all located on the east coast. Should the port be mined, that would be a major concern, and we would be properly cut off. It is not just about the harbour but about the waters outside Gothenburg harbour and between Sweden and Denmark. What is the interest of the Minister of Defence in this matter? How does he view the security of the Port of Gothenburg?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-317	Mr President, I would like to I do not intend to go in and discuss details of the Swedish Armed Forces' operational planning. It would make some people too happy if I were to go into that kind of ministerial government. This would result in various activities here in Parliament. However, I can say as much as that the port of Gothenburg has a great strategic value for Sweden in different ways, in both peacetime and possible times of unrest. I am well aware of the role of the Port of Gothenburg in terms of supplies to Sweden and also its importance to Norway. In connection with the Armed Forces exercise Aurora, the Gothenburg area will also be the subject of important exercise activities as it is a strategic area. However, as I said, I do not have the opportunity to go into precisely the operational planning.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-321	Mr President, I would like to I often get the answer from the Secretary of Defense that he is afraid that I or someone else will report him to the KU. It is important that we look at our most important port. Today we live in a just-in-time society, and we depend on certain supplies coming in. Aurora is good, but we will still not have any mine-clearing vessels on the west coast, which I regret.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-324	Mr President, I would like to No matter how the answer was, it's what it is. I cannot exercise ministerial rule and pronounce what type of ship I believe the Swedish Armed Forces should locate in the Gothenburg area. However, I can say so much that I am well aware of the situation. What the honourable Member is presenting about the importance of the Port of Gothenburg is not exactly news. I believe, however, that we share the view of the strategic importance of the port.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-327	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Fridolin. The government and I are usually able to keep a nice tone when we talk here, because we agree that the school needs all the help it can get. But right now, Master Jakobsson is quite irritated. Yesterday I read in Sydsvenskan that Malmö Borgarskola forbids its students to celebrate school graduation with the Swedish flag when they run out. Which team does the school use? Is it the school law, the municipal law or the law of Sweden? Probably no one, but it's just an opinion. Last time I looked, we lived in Sweden, and we are proud of our flag. We're gonna play a football game tomorrow, and I hope we win. I think management should think seriously about whether to really run a school. We have the opportunity to withdraw the permit. Does our Swedish Minister for Education think it's okay to force students to refrain from celebrating their school leaving with the Swedish flag?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-334	Mr President, I would like to I do not know the background to this decision, but I do not think that Swedish school will be better because we in Parliament will quickly be like that after being irritated when we read the local newspaper decide how principals should make decisions at their school. I therefore decline to answer the question.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-335	Mr President, I would like to I had a hope that we would send a clear signal to Sweden about what the Riksdag thinks, but the question remains. At least I wanted to express my opinion on what I think about the possibility of celebrating with the Swedish flag. Let me turn to the recent report on teachers' sick leave. We have an extremely large number of teachers here. I've worked in the business myself and I know how it works. You go to school even if you are sick, contagious and should be at home.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-338	Mr President, I would like to We work hard to reduce stress in the teaching profession. It is a fairly large part of the work the government does for healthier workplaces. There is also a framework agreement between teachers' employers and teachers' trade unions on how to continue this work. I have not entered into discussions on Karen's Day, and I fully understand the problem of breaking a category of work out of the rules that exist. However, it is extremely important that we get to what is at the root of most sick leave, namely stress.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-342	Mr President, I would like to I also have a question for Minister Fridolin. Yesterday, investigator Ebba Östlin delivered one of the perhaps most important investigations that this government has set up, namely the strengthening of support for new arrivals' schooling. The fact that more newcomers get better schooling and can enter Swedish society and the labour market faster is crucial for Sweden to cope with integration in the future. Bridging the gap we have in the labour market between foreign-born and Swedish-born should be the most prioritised issue for any government right now. In order for the school to manage its part of that mission is language A and O, as the investigator states. This, in turn, requires teachers to acquire the right skills to ensure that students can benefit from language training.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-348	Mr President, I would like to Language competence is something that is enhanced in teacher education around Sweden. We have also made a great effort to improve the conditions for teachers when it comes to entering specific eligibility in Swedish as a second language. Schools today receive more compensation to give their teachers that competence. In addition, through the Swedish National Agency for Education, we have built a large training programme where you have the opportunity to get, for example, skills that are useful to use in multilingual activities. Some points to by Ebba Östlin, which are particularly important to highlight, are the need for study guidance. Today we know how important it is for students to continue to receive their teaching in the school language from which they come and how much easier it will then be to learn Swedish. The investigator therefore proposes to strengthen study guidance. It is a proposal that we will look at in particular when it is sent out for consultation.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-351	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that, Minister. It is well that the government has made efforts to make it financially possible for schools to release teachers so that they can develop language skills. The problem is that no principal is willing to let go of the staff you well need and use if you can't get a few substitutes. The Moderates have proposed that Swedish as a second language should become a regular part of the teacher education. We have also suggested that care should be taken to ensure that the education is available both as a distance course and as a summer course, so that there is a practical opportunity for the teachers to take part in this. Is there something that the government here and now can be willing to review?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-353	Mr President, I would like to We are doing what is possible to strengthen the ability to acquire multilingual skills. It's something that's very useful to you. I believe that all teachers will need it, to varying degrees, in the future. Multilingualism and this competence are about meeting students who speak different languages at home but also about finding tools to reach some of the students that we have had difficulty reaching and helping in Swedish schools for a long time, even though they speak Swedish at home. Tools can be found to break the language codes and thus get easier to learn.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-355	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Education is right to stand by. My question is for him. The question does not really come from me but from a teacher who has sent it to the Government and the Ministry of Education but has not received an answer. This concerns assessment support in grade 1. We agreed to introduce that. This is more about how it has been introduced. It is not possible to do digitally, which has led to a lot of copying and lots of extra administration for teachers. It takes time, which would actually have to be spent on developing teaching and supporting the students. This also means that teachers cannot analyse the students' results aggregatedly, in a simple way, and the principals cannot take part in the results to use it in the systematic quality work. How could something that would make things easier and help be so wrong? How will this benefit the students? And not least, how does this rhyme with the education minister's ambitions to reduce teachers' administration?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-359	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that it is not possible to describe the effort as being so wrong. It provides support. By doing a good survey of children early on, one can see what efforts the young students need to be able to leave primary school with the skills they then need to cope with other subjects. It's the right way to work. And we will proceed with a read-sk r iva-count guarantee, as Maria Stockhaus knows. With regard to digitalisation, it would of course be much better if it were possible to make the assessment support digital. The simple answer to why it has not worked from the beginning is that it is about how you have managed the agency Skolverket. That authority has been governed by many fast and different missions. And as a result, you do not have the kind of digital environment that would make it easier to make the assessment support digital. We hope that this will be easier with the digitisation of national tests.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-362	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the digitalisation of national tests is very far ahead, as the Swedish National Agency for Education has planned. It would have made it easier for teachers who have the possibility to use digital tools if they had been able to use them for assessment support. Does the Minister of Education think it reasonable to spend more administration on teachers instead of waiting to see if a digital environment can be put in order? If it could be implemented, it could be used in systematic quality work, including at the main level.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-365	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is reasonable for us to do early follow - ups so that we can use the results to ensure that students receive the right support early. I am prepared to do much to reduce the administrative workload at school. We have agreed to make two of the national tests optional and to improve the rules for specific support. We can move forward with more efforts to reduce the administrative workload. Digitisation is an important part of that. But we must not use it as an argument for not providing early support for the students, for that is necessary.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-368	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. The social security systems that we have in our society and which ensure that there is a safety net in the event of various difficulties are important for people's security. An important part of this is financial assistance, where supply support is part of it. There have been clarifications and changes in recent years for those who, for various reasons, need to apply for supply support today. One such change is that today the same requirements are imposed on the person applying for support in terms of being able to be at the disposal of the labour market as on the person applying for unemployment benefit.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-372	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the honourable Member. That's right. The provision will soon be one year old. Of course, I think it is reasonable for those who can work to be at the disposal of the labour market. I also know that, according to the Social Services Act, municipalities can offer opportunities for different forms of practice and that kind of employment. The majority of municipalities do, too. It is also important that the same demands are made or expected from women as from men. If you are part of a couple, are married and have children, it should not be that way, as has sometimes been reported, that the question of being at the disposal of the labour market is made available only to one party, that is, to the man and not to the woman. I'll find out even more about it. I really want to make sure that doesn't happen.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-376	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister chooses to highlight the gender perspective. I have another, small, question. Sometimes it is said that wages drag away a lot in society, but those who have income support lag behind and get less and less in relation to those who work. Of course, we are not very happy about that. Can the Minister say anything about the way in which this aid is calculated?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-379	Mr President, I would like to Supply support should be temporary support for a period of life. You should get input from society to eventually, and preferably soon, be able to support yourself. During that time you should be able to live on a reasonable level of life. It is not least important that the children in these families should be able to live a reasonable life. We look at the issue and follow the supply support. I am also pleased that the labour market is doing well right now and can include more and more people.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-383	Mr President, I would like to This government has already raised taxes by 40 billion. And today we are moving forward with proposals for more harmful taxes. Although Sweden's parliament has repeatedly said no to an airline tax, the government is moving forward with a proposal that has been condemned by most consultation bodies and is hitting hard on jobs and growth. The government's aviation tax has a marginal climate effect, which even the Swedish National Audit Office has condemned. But the airline tax damages competitiveness, accessibility and jobs in large parts of Sweden. Swedish flights are apparently to be taxed in criminal terms – cost whatever it wants. I would like to ask Minister Fridolin: how is the proposal on air travel tax compatible with the government's objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020? And is it reasonable for the government to deliberately oppose what a majority in this House has said?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-387	Mr President, I would like to The political debate in the world is currently being shared. It is shared between those who believe that the economic future and new jobs are about not doing anything for the climate, about saving jobs in coal power and about saving jobs in old sectors and those who say that there is a new society around the corner, that there can be new jobs if we invest in the climate and that there can be new jobs when we invest in more sustainable solutions and better transport and when we ensure that we can meet more digitally when we ensure that we get fast trains in countries like Sweden. It becomes clear which of these pages Jessica Rosencrantz is on. It is true that we need flights in Sweden. We also need fast trains, which the Moderates are against. I think that a fundamental principle when we introduce new taxes should be that they should lead to a good climate effect. The airline tax has it. It is strange that the flight is tax-free compared to the train and the car.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-390	Mr President, I would like to I respect many arguments in this debate. However, we must stop spreading the myth of the climate effect of this national aviation tax. National air taxes mean that routes move abroad. Copenhagen increases its traffic, and Arlanda reduces its traffic. And suddenly we have exported CO2 emissions, while we are losing competitiveness and accessibility. Why is the government not talking about the truth behind this policy, that is, squeezing people on money and reducing people's travel?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-393	Mr President, I would like to I think it would be good if the train were cheaper than the plane. I think it would be good if the train could go faster than the car. And I think it would be good if Sweden were to invest in high-speed trains. That is something our government will do. Instead, the Moderates want to ensure that new train lines are subject to some kind of future ban. Trains should not be allowed to drive too fast. I also think it would be good if the flight that we need – we will need flights also in the future – paid for its environmental costs. Today it's a tax advantage. Aviation tax would mean that we reduced climate emissions by 180 000 tonnes.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-395	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. The government wants the whole country to live – in this work, of course, employment policy is very important – and that, among other things, government jobs should be relocated in the country. The other day, I read the newspaper back home in Västerbotten. It said that the Government had said that Lycksele has influenced Swedish politics. It was cheerful reading, and it is related to the fact that Arbetsförmedlingen has decided to open new operations that involve 100 new state jobs in Lycksele. That, of course, is very pleasing. My question is about what the Government means by Lycksele having influenced Swedish politics. The Government is happy to develop this reasoning.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-399	Mr President, I would like to The biggest moment that I have experienced during my years as a minister was when I visited Lycksele when the Swedish Tax Agency planned to close the office there and in eight other locations. In Lycksele I met people who felt committed, who did a fantastic job in the Swedish Tax Agency and who opposed the centralisation logic that applied in Sweden for too long and that was about the state jobs being concentrated in Stockholm. I and the other government started work after the discussion in Lycksele about relocating government jobs from Stockholm to other parts of the country, strengthening the state service presence around the country and breaking the trend that was the dominant trend in government policy during Fredrik Reinfeldt's reign, namely centralisation to Stockholm. The state must take responsibility for keeping Sweden together.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-402	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. This is a very important piece of work, and I must really emphasise this, not least with regard to the debate on city and country, but also in concrete terms with regard to jobs and confidence in the future throughout the region. That is a very good example. The government has also said that more authorities should be relocated to more parts of the country. I wonder how this will turn out and when it will become a reality.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-404	Mr President, I would like to In addition to strengthening the presence of authorities already present in those parts of the country that have had a deteriorating state presence, we are now working to relocate entire agencies or public authorities from Stockholm to other parts of the country. We have already taken decisions on three state agencies that are relocated from Stockholm or that have received decisions on relocation from Stockholm to other parts of the country. However, we will decide on more authorities in the coming year. This is important for cohesion.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-405	Mr President, I would like to There are girls and boys in Sweden today who do not long for the coming summer vacation. They fear that the holiday trip to their parents'homeland will mean a forced marriage with someone they do not love or with someone they have not even met. These youths are rarely discovered by school and social services because they do not dare to tell because of the oppression in the name of honour that they are subjected to in their families.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-407	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. This is a very big issue. The Government has presented a strategy on violence against women of over SEK 900 million. One of the major areas is precisely the work against honour-related violence. The strategy includes a number of assignments to various authorities – social services, police and others – to work actively against honour-related violence including children's and forced marriages. In addition, we have set up an investigation that looks at the issue of child marriage and how to further tighten the legislation on child marriage, which is already quite tough in Sweden by international standards, and how to also prevent forced marriages and precisely that children are taken out of Sweden against their will.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-409	Mr President, I would like to The identification of the number of care facilities according to the Act on the Care of Young People shows large differences between the different municipalities. This is probably due to the fact that the issue of honour violence is still being relativised.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-411	Mr President, I would like to The laws should cover everyone. Gender equality covers all. Equality covers everyone. That's absolute. We cannot have different standards for different people and for different children. As far as the legislation is concerned, I was just telling you what we are doing. There are more examples. But this is more about the implementation of the strategy. I and the other two Ministers at the Ministry of Justice have quite recently called all the Directors-General for precisely inculcating their responsibility for implementing this strategy on violence against women.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-413	Mr President, I would like to My question is, of course, addressed to the Minister for Defence. Shortly before Christmas came the so-called logistics investigation in the field of defence, which among other things suggested that the operation and maintenance of materials belonging to the Swedish Armed Forces should be solely a responsibility for the Swedish Armed Forces and not for the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. The Secretary of Defense expressed a very positive opinion when the investigation came to its conclusions. My question is: Is it still the intention of the Minister for Defence that the operation and maintenance of defence equipment should take place within the Swedish Armed Forces?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-417	Mr President, I would like to This is a very good investigation. It is very well-made and well-founded. Ingemar Wahlberg has done a very good job in this context. I will not anticipate the preparation process in the Government Office. But I think it is very important for us to come up with a decision on this investigation. We prepare it, as I have said, and will come back when this process is completed. But the statements I made in connection with the presentation I stand by.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-420	Mr President, I would like to That sounds unusually positive to be the Minister for Defence – and very concrete too, I have to say. I am glad that he stands by his statements. The statements of that time respond very clearly to the question of whether it is the Minister of Defence's intention to ensure that the whole of the investigation's proposals and basic grip will be materialised.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-421	Mr President, I would like to Now Widman should not like to interpret this and give some kind of picture based on how he feels and on what I have said. We will come back with the proposals when we have prepared them, and then I will present them to you. In essence, however, it is a very good investigation with many well-motivated proposals and well-motivated thoughts. Then you can think about who created the situation that forced us to do the investigation.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-423	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden 2017, a report after a report in many areas shows that the development is going in the wrong direction in Sweden. When the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise presented the business environment some time ago, it was an all-time-low in terms of the national result. Today, a new survey from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise showed that over half of entrepreneurs experience crime as a problem. 31 per cent, one in three companies, feels that the problem has increased over the last two years. Companies feel that fraud, robbery and vandalism are common crimes against companies. A quarter of Sweden's municipal politicians say in the same survey that crimes have increased in their own municipality. Is it reasonable for a clothing store in Sandviken to have an assault alarm? Is it reasonable for a paint shop in Boden to have the windows fired on? I don't think so. My question to Minister Gustav Fridolin is therefore what the government is doing in this area to protect Swedish companies and reverse criminal developments.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-426	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Lars Beckman! No, of course that's not reasonable. One should be able to be safe from crime, and this also applies to entrepreneurs in Sweden. This is one of the reasons why we both ensure that the reorganisation within the police that has taken place in broad agreement will land in such a way that we get better investigation results – that was like the whole point of it – and invest resources on the police. Only in the spring change budget we have put on Parliament's table will we send 700 million to the police. This is very important. The police are our ultimate defence against crime, and it is the police who must act and work in such a way that crime is reached – in all parts of the country.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-428	Mr President, I would like to I read an interview with an entrepreneur in the inland who said that the police in Västerbotten are like Jesus – everyone has heard of him, but no one has seen him. You can read in articles about diesel theft and about an entrepreneur who has had a hundred police reports closed. You can read an article about criminals who feel powerlessness. I believe that entrepreneurs expect strong action from the government.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-429	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's why we're betting on the police. I grew up in an entrepreneur's family myself and have been involved in what happens when you have a break-in and the enormous worry it causes when there is never anyone who is suspected or prosecuted but the whole thing stays with the insurance company. Of course, this type of crime is often quite difficult to investigate, but the more of this type of crime we can investigate and prosecute people for, the better it is for society's experience of security.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-430	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Gustav Fridolin. The study of a better school through attractive school professors now leaves a partial report. The investigator would review the licensing and eligibility rules, which are currently causing a lot of problems in the school world – especially in the field of aesthetics. My question is what the government's planning is like when it comes to dealing with the proposals contained in the interim report.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-432	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Lena Emilsson! The investigation is the result of our having sat down in the National collection for the teaching profession and met employers and trade unions. We have tried to identify where it has gone wrong when so many reforms were pushed down in school for a very short time. Unfortunately, we have found a lot of flaws, which the investigation is now addressing. On the other hand, it is the one that Lena Emilsson mentions, i.e. the problem that exists when it comes to recruiting for, above all, some of our aesthetic specialist courses. On the other hand, we see problems in that some of the rules have been based on a very old-fashioned notion that the recreation centre, and also preschool, are not as important parts of the school system as the others. They are very important parts for us to grow as citizens and for the mission of knowledge. It now makes a number of proposals on how to deal with this, as well as a timetable for doing so. The first changes will take effect during the next half-year shift, i.e. mid-year 2018.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-435	Mr President, I would like to The comprehensive school has educators who have many different forms of education behind them, and the school education has been reformed for many years. There are teachers who have been working in the school for many, many years and who have given grades during that time, and now that they have applied for a licence, for some reason they have not been approved. Can they feel the hope that they will finally get some kind of approval?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-436	Mr President, I would like to That's a great question, Lena Emilsson. It is a little difficult to answer it, because when it comes to the person who has been involved in this – the person who has applied for an identification it considers entitled to and received a ‘no' – I cannot guarantee that these very rules and the very flaws we have found in this investigation correct their particular case. However, there should be at least a significant reduction in such shortcomings and problems. This reform should have been implemented from the outset, with a clear implementation and financing plan. It was not done, and that is why we must now take care of it afterwards.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-437	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. During Question Time we have already heard that we are practicing more – v in carrying out more military exercises now than in many years. We strengthen equipment, and we also strengthen and extend staffing. We also have a Home Guard who participates in the exercises and has never been as professional as it is today. My question to the Minister for Defence is whether it is also intended to strengthen protective equipment for Home Guard soldiers and, if so, when we can see that proposal on the table.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-439	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, something that is being dealt with within the financial framework of the Home Guard. What has now been agreed on by the political side in relation to the Home Guard is that the fleet of vehicles should be able to be renewed on a rather large scale. I understand it has been received in a very good way. Then, of course, there are other needs, and one may well reason on what is the priority in the various budgets of the Home Guard. However, the most recent political addition was to the issue of vehicles.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-440	Mr President, I would like to I think the question is extremely important. We now see that it is not difficult to recruit to the Home Guard; there are many new and relatively young people who come to the Home Guard and feel motivated. Part of the motive if it should come to a conflict or if you actually have to do what you train for is that you can feel confident that you have the necessary protective equipment. It is also the only thing that can help us so that we do not need so much medical care, which is also a short supply.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-441	Mr President, I would like to Personal protective equipment is important, including all other materials used in exercise activities and in real, operational situations. Within the existing frameworks and budgets, the priorities considered by the Home Guard are to be implemented. We are, of course, following developments in the Home Guard carefully and are prepared to support it in various ways, but it must also be based on their own priorities.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-443	Mr President, I would like to Virtually everyone seems to agree: It's good to move. Those who move can do more, are happier and healthier and concentrate and learn better. If we have a population in motion, then we will have better public health. If the country's children and young people move, it is also good for school results. At the same time, social development makes, I imagine, people's everyday lives become increasingly sedentary. Both children and young and adults are moving less and less. Good and bad habits are established early in life, which is why it is so gratifying that the government presented the Collection for Daily Movement initiative a few weeks ago. The goal is clearly stated: All children and young people should move every day. We have heard that sports and health will be expanded in the primary school's hour plan, and earlier we talked about tightening the goals for daily movement in school.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-446	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Linus Sköld, for the question! The way we deal with this now is really good. Yes, we increase the number of hours in sports and health. It's an important part of the whole thing. But we do so at the same time as we sit down with outdoor organisations, with the sports movement, with the School of Gymnastics and Sports and other schools, with researchers and, of course, with the teachers' unions and the sports teachers' organisations to see how to do this in a good way. How does it really become a reality and a workshop in such a way that it works and not just becomes an extra charge out there in schools? Part of this is, of course, the possibility to work in leisure homes with daily movement. It is about the opportunity for those who work in leisure homes to get the tools and training they feel you need to do this. I am convinced that this is one of the things that we are going to talk about in the movement network that we are setting up. It also fits very well with the new wordings in the curriculum for leisure homes that we have introduced.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-448	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. There is a part of this that worries me a little, and I thought the Minister would have the opportunity to publish the text on this. If we're going to expand the hourly plan in sports and health, I suppose that means that the total hourly plan for comprehensive school will be extended. I imagine that, in turn, there is a risk of exacerbating an already difficult skill supply crisis at school.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-450	Mr President, I would like to Now the Swedish National Agency for Education is preparing a mission to see how you could increase the number of hours in sports and health. We have not set foot in extending the overall curriculum and in that case it will be extended by 100 hours. One should also see if it is possible to prioritize a little differently with retained knowledge requirements today. The important thing is to make sure that we move more. By moving more we also get better results both, of course, in the knowledge subject sport and health and in other subjects.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-453	Mr President, I would like to I was going to continue on the issue that Björn Wiechel raised, namely the jobs throughout the country. Men and women lost their jobs in many parts of the country during the time of the bourgeois government. In addition to rising unemployment, ongoing urbanisation continued at avalanche speed. 7 500 government jobs were transferred from the rest of the country to Stockholm. Now I know that the government has a different policy, and we are happy about that. We're gonna make sure the jobs come back. But I wonder: When does it become a reality? Is this about men and women all over the country? And what jobs come to Skövde and Skaraborg?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-455	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Monica Green, for the question! We have had a clear wave of centralisation. It has affected the spread of government jobs. The state jobs have been concentrated in Stockholm. For the previous government Sweden started in Täby and ended in Huddinge. But that is not how Sweden looks. The state must take responsibility for being in the whole country. We have now decided on the relocation of three authorities. We also strengthen the presence in existing authorities in several locations, most recently in Lycksele. And we'll be working to spread the government jobs. This is not just a question of strengthening the growth of those regions with a low proportion of government jobs. It is about the legitimacy of the Swedish state. If the distance between citizens and state grows, trust in the Swedish state will also decrease. It is absolutely crucial for the future of the Swedish state and for the relationship between citizens and states that we take responsibility and spread the state jobs and break the policy of the previous government.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-458	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. That is good, for during the time of the bourgeois government, 17 authorities closed 143 jobs around the country. It affected both men and women. Some claim that it has to do with education – that there is a person of a certain kind of quality and that the jobs must therefore be in Stockholm.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-460	Mr President, I would like to There are educated people in Gävle, Gothenburg, Lycksele, Norrbotten and Skåne. We have a population that is well educated. Thanks to investments in regional higher education institutions and universities, we have a better dissemination of academic education, and this creates good conditions for the provision of skills in the state sector also outside Stockholm. It is absolutely crucial that we also use the opportunity that we have for a better state service, presence and location of the state authorities.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-463	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to the Minister for Defence. Cybersecurity is becoming an increasingly important issue. We are constantly seeing this growing in scope, and we have heard the FRA go out with up to 10 000 cyber attacks per month. There are cyber spies working to extinguish Sweden. This could always have devastating consequences for Sweden, but not least in the event of an attack. Just a few days ago, we were in the Defence Committee in Lithuania. It works very ambitiously and has chosen to have a single authority that takes responsibility for both the military and the various authorities and for the information structure that is important in the country. The question I would like to ask the Minister is: How does the Minister of Defence intend to strengthen cybersecurity in Sweden? And is the Minister pleased that six authorities are supposed to cooperate and share responsibility?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-467	Mr President, I would like to Within the framework of MSB, work is under way to monitor different types of attacks and to establish organisations with authorities and companies in different industries. They meet there at regular intervals to exchange experiences but also to share different types of solutions on how to better resist different types of attacks. A similar work is under way on the state side. There are special key authorities who have a particular responsibility to do this, and there is also planning in progress. This is something we need to work hard on in order to constantly develop our methods. I would like to remind you of the parliamentary decision that is where we have supported working with active cyber within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-469	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. We should also remember that the Swedish National Audit Office has specifically pointed out that information security needs to be given higher priority and that there are many authorities that do not reach an acceptable level at all. It is nice to exchange experiences, but is it not more reasonable to have them just as in Lithuania and in many other countries? There is a single authority, a cybersecurity authority, that takes responsibility. Isn't that a better way to go than to let six different authorities share the responsibility?
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-471	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to snow in here on any particular solution for what this purely administrative approach should look like. I realise that society is extremely multifaceted with many companies, many authorities and many administrative units. The important thing is that you get the job started in a broad field and that something happens out in practice. This is what MSB is trying to achieve. That is not to say that it is enough, but the potential for improvement in this area is considerable.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-473	This concludes Question Time this week. I would like to thank the participating ministers and Members.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-474	Mr President, I would like to The bill is about Mali, and we are talking a little bit about Libya. But that is quite logical, because it is, of course, partly because of the great failure in Libya that Mali has the problems it has today. Allan Widman sees only one alternative to destroying an entire country and making terrorist organizations spread like dandelion seeds: stand and watch. No, it's not like that. There are countless other things. I would just like to remind you that the Left Party was involved in the first operation in Libya when it came to upholding the UN resolution on a ban on flights. It was then, when it was flagrantly violated, and did everything else, that both international law and resolutions were violated, that we were no longer present. But I understand that Allan Widman is still standing. There has now been a British parliamentary report on the outbreak in Libya for more than six months, almost a year. There are some terrible things being said. The British Government has not been able to substantiate the claim, which Allan Widman also quotes here, of massive abuses on the part of Gaddafis against the civilian population. The gods should know that Gaddafi was not a figure of light in history. He oppressed his own people. But the things that were claimed to motivate the war had simply not taken place. The report shows that the NATO coalition and thus the United Kingdom violated the UN resolution, that the air attacks were directed against the Libyan Government with the result that Gaddafi was murdered and the government was overthrown, that ground forces were deployed and that the arms embargo was circumvented by smuggled weapons to the rebels. They noted that the aim of protecting Benghazi had already been reached within 24 hours. But Allan Widman is still standing. There are several options. These are the ones we need to look at before we throw ourselves into such operations.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-479	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I share Stig Henriksson's view of principle. When participating in operations of the kind that have been in Afghanistan, for example, it is important that you have a very broad toolbox. I believe that one of the most important conclusions for Afghanistan was that it very quickly won a military victory and established relatively good security in the country. However, as a result of failure to give the Afghans faith in the future and to provide the necessary aid and reconstruction, the situation was lost. After that, it became significantly worse. I don't just believe in military action. We need to work much more with both aid and policy measures of different kinds. Having said that, I personally still remember the pictures from Swedish television where hospitals in Benghazi were displayed bombarded by Gaddafis's artillery. I would also like to recall that the UN Security Council actually decided on the operation. Not everything could reasonably have been invented even by NATO. I refuse to believe that, Mr President.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-482	Mr President, I would like to I refer once again to the British parliamentary report. There they clearly show that most of it was history to justify a war that they wanted for quite different reasons. I still think it is a good thing that Allan Widman brings this up with a broad toolbox, unfortunately with the addition, with not only military intervention. Most military operations – Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya – have fundamentally failed. For God's sake, let us hope that Mali will not be another example in the long line. That failure does not cost single lives here and there. In Iraq alone, 600 000 people are expected to die by 2006, 2008 or something like that. You still have to see: What other war goals were there? In the British parliamentary report, they have intercepted information on Nicolas Sarkozys's objective: a strong demand for a greater share of Libya's oil. Increase French influence in North Africa. Strengthening Sarkozys's political position in France. Give the French military a chance to create a stronger position in the world. Countering Gaddafis long-term plan for Libya to replace France as the dominant power in French-speaking Africa. Unfortunately, those were the real war goals. However, I would like to thank Allan Widman for the fact that we are still discussing the broader toolbox, which we sometimes forget at home and when we talk about international efforts. Now I understand that the next line shift is about who's sitting in the sandbox. It may be appropriate, in itself, when we have a bill for a desert country like Mali.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-486	Mr President, I would like to I am not sure that the United States, Russia, China and the United Kingdom were so seriously concerned about Sarkozys's political career. I think they had completely different motives. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I do not think I am prepared to put so much faith in the parliamentary report, which I myself have not taken note of. To me, the situation was quite obvious, and it is still so today. Muammar Gaddafi turned his weapons, as almost all dictatorships ultimately do, against his own people. Of course, we would have worked more with aid and more with diplomacy and politics. But it was also about ending a humanitarian disaster that was going on in the country. Then I agree that afterwork was far too bad.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-489	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman believes that it is we in the Swedish Democrats who sit in the sandbox with bucket and shovel. Sure, it can be interpreted as when we chose not to support the Alliance's motion in the report because we did not get support for our request in the Iraq report. You can interpret it as being bully kids sitting there in the sandbox. For us, it is more important that we treat foreign operations in a similar way in terms of monitoring and evaluation requirements. It would be extremely strange if we were to do otherwise. If, now, the majority of the committee in the Iraq report considers that it is sufficient to refer to the government's letter to the Constitutional Committee and that the Afghanistan investigation proposes a special role in the Government Office, which is responsible for proposals and strategies for, among other things, objectives, we believe that this report should reasonably be sufficient. If the Alliance had chosen to support our proposal in the Iraq report, we would have been able to get other wordings both in the Iraq report and in the Mali report. Mr President, I would like to I can once again say that the Alliance lets prestige go before getting its own policy through. I therefore believe that it is the alliance parties who sit there in the sandbox with their bucket and shovel and not us.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-492	Mr President, I would like to When Björn Söder makes it clear to the composite committee that, although he has previously indicated that he would support the Alliance's proposal on nationally evaluable objectives at a crucial stage, he says that if you do not support my proposal, I will not support your proposal, approaching a point where the words political blackmail feel appropriate. This is the case in the Alliance: we do politics in the Alliance together, but we do not do politics in these areas together with the Swedish Democrats. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats can, if they wish, and this has happened on several occasions, of course support the Alliance's various proposals. Now, however, it is my fundamental view that we may not have to insist on every single one of our efforts when they are to be extended that there should be national targets that can be evaluated. I think it is much better, Mr President, if we get a broader grip so that it becomes a standing routine for the government. It will not come to Parliament unless it knows what the goals are. It does not come to Parliament unless it knows on what grounds and premises to get out of an international effort. It should be a routine. Having said that, the matter is well resolved when the government returns with a proposal on the strategy for our international efforts.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-496	Mr President, I would like to We do not disagree that we should have follow-up targets, proper evaluations and the like. Allan Widman can call it political blackmail if he wants to. At the same time, Allan Widman is standing in the speaker's chair and makes it clear that politics is not being done with the Swedish Democrats. This shows that instead of being able to get your own policy through, you put the prestige first by not making a deal with the Swedish Democrats. Otherwise, you would have been able to get this policy through. For us it is a question of having similar wordings when it comes to foreign operations. It is very strange that we should demand concrete targets and have proper follow-up to the Malian operation, but we do not care about that when it comes to the Iraq operation. It is then considered sufficient to refer to the government's letter to the Constitutional Committee and to the forthcoming post that will probably be established at the Government Office. If you think so in one case, you should think so in the other case. That's how we reasoned. We think that the important thing is to have similar wordings. We could have got a sharper wording, an announcement to the government, about this together. But the Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, chose not to be able to admit, as was done at the end of the day, that they had forgotten to exercise on this in the Iraq report. You did not want to admit that you had missed exercise on this. With regard to the Mali report, we acknowledged that we had failed to include it in our follow-up motion, but we were prepared to back up the Alliance. However, you were unable to back up our proposal, even though you yourself had missed exercise on this, as one member of one of the alliance parties acknowledged to us. I find it regrettable that one avoids getting one's own policy through on the grounds that one should not settle with the Swedish Democrats or support an SD proposal. I think it is good that this is illustrated to the voters. It has happened earlier in the parliamentary term that you are not prepared to push through your own policy when you can.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-502	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, the Alliance is a potential government option and will shortly meet in a kitchen in Nacka to continue to build this government option. It's quite natural in politics – and it's been so in my three decades – that you build politics in the groupings that you've decided you can represent together. Therefore, Mr President, it is not on the map for me to sit in a few closed rooms and make some confessions for Björn Söder. I would like to make it quite clear that at least I myself have never sat in a closed room and made such confessions to Björn Söder. It is also a matter of fact that the operation in Iraq and the operation in Mali are separate operations. It has lasted for more than three years in Mali, while we have not been as long in Iraq. In Mali, there are many more of us, and I believe that everyone in this House who has followed the debate understands that the need for action in Mali is considerably more long-term than it may be in Iraq. All these differences, Mr President, make it more natural for us to call for the approval of nationally evaluable targets precisely in the case of Mali, on which Parliament has also made an announcement in the past.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-506	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing here this afternoon the Swedish participation in the United Nations stabilisation operation in Mali. Let me begin by calling for reservation 1 in paragraph 2, which deals with objectives and evaluation. The Swedish contribution will amount to approximately 320 people on site. Later this year there will also be an air transport subsidy of approximately 60 people, from the end of 2017 and six months forward. The aim is for Sweden to help as a participant in the operation and to support and accelerate efforts to implement the UN Security Resolution with subsequent resolutions on women, peace and security. Mr President, I would like to As has been pointed out here before, this is a tough effort. It is estimated that Minusma is the most dangerous mission currently in existence. Until March this year, 116 members of Minusma's staff have been killed in 72 different attacks and acts. In addition to the intelligence unit, Sweden is contributing a number of staff officers at various UN staffs in Mali. There is still a very difficult and tough situation in Mali. Islamist groups, including Al-Qaida, started an uprising already in 2011-2012. Since 2013, the UN's current force in Minusma has been formally responsible for security in Mali. Northern Mali, called Azawad by the separatists, has become a lawless area. Several Westerners, including the Swede Johan Gustafsson, are in captivity with Islamist groups. This is an important contribution from Sweden, and it is something that we back up to 100%. The reason we have a special reservation is that this needs to be evaluated clearly. Finally, I would like to point out once again that we owe a great deal of thanks to all the soldiers who are out and, at the risk of their own lives, stand up for what we have decided on. We owe them and all their relatives a great thank you.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-514	Mr President, I would like to During this spring, members from both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee in various constellations visited a number of Swedish international efforts. These visits are valuable to form an idea of what we otherwise – normally – get a lot of text, many presentations and a lot of information about. Some of the information is so sensitive that it's even secret. To be able to see the reality that our efforts seem to be in, to be able to meet the staff and to be able to follow the business out into the field is very valuable to those of us who have that opportunity. These are the experiences and observations which all these Members take with them into the further work, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on Defence, and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Several Members have also returned in the various debates earlier today to what they themselves have been out and seen and experienced during these trips. At the end of April, I myself led a delegation to visit the operation in Mali. I met there staff who are sent out and who, of course, have a very difficult mission. We visited the staff and lived with the staff at the camp, in tents, out in the desert. We were patrolling with the staff. We noted that the attitude and people who met the staff in a village in which we visited and patrolled were very appreciative. It was clear that the Swedish staff were welcome and that the Swedish effort was appreciated by the people who lived there and who naturally hope for a better future in a better, safer and more peaceful Mali. During our trip to Mali, like so many times in the past when we travelled to our efforts, we were able to note that staff one has great knowledge and strong commitment. It's good to see. It makes you proud of what you see and what you face. I would say that there is reason for everyone in Sweden to be proud of the staff we have out there on these international efforts. In these debates we often talk about military personnel, but we should remember that there are also other staff in international operations: civilian personnel and also police. We do not talk about them as often as we do, but they also make valuable contributions that are worth paying attention. In the debates and discussions about our international efforts, the focus is often – quite naturally – on the military. This is also the case when we visit the stakes. But I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that it was not just visits and meetings in the military part of Mali. We were also in the capital Bamako, where we had a series of political meetings and discussions. What we discussed was, among other things, the implementation of the peace agreement in Mali. It is a fragile peace that is to be implemented, and what we could see, and was also aware of already before, but had the opportunity to discuss more closely with various representatives, was why implementation is slower than the timetable set out in the peace agreement. In conclusion, Mr President, I think it is important and good that, in a broad consensus here in the Swedish Parliament, we support the various efforts we are sending out Swedish staff. Although there are motions and reservations, it is about objectives and evaluation that it is perfectly reasonable to discuss, but there is a very broad consensus that we should participate in these efforts. It is important that this is the case. It is important to know for the staff who have to implement these efforts and who also ultimately risk their own lives that there is full support and that it is well thought out and carefully considered when making the political decisions here in the Swedish Parliament. I would like to reiterate the thanks that several people before me in these debates have given to the staff and relatives who carry out these efforts. That is thanks to military personnel, civilian personnel, police and other government personnel who are engaged in international operations. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal made by the composite committee in the report to extend the operation in Mali.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-528	Mr President, I would like to The reason I now asked for a reply is that I would like to commend Kenneth G. Forslund for the fact that he is staying not only with our military veterans but also with all the civilian officials who are engaged in international operations on behalf of the Swedish state. It is people who experience exactly the same risks and wear as military personnel do. If you point out any difference between them, you can say that the military personnel are well embedded on their campers with their logistics and maintenance and other things. For nurses, firefighters and policemen, it is another and much more exposed reality that they face in the stakes. I hope that Kenneth G Forslund, together with me and other parties here in the Swedish Parliament, will be able to work to ensure that the legislation surrounding the civilian veterans comes in parallel with what applies to the military veterans, because since 2011, there are great differences in terms of the help, security and support that can be expected.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-530	Mr President, I would like to We are right now at a time when we are paying attention and developing how we handle our veterans. It is something that has previously received too little attention. It is quite obvious that we have made the most progress with regard to military personnel and veterans. I have no other opinion than Allan Widman. Development must continue, and it is reasonable to believe that this will also lead to more time and attention being given over time to those who are veterans of civilian efforts in our international missions.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-531	Mr President, I would like to Every morning at 10 a.m. 06.30 the Swedish flag is raised at the Swedish camp Camp Nobel in Timbuktu. From Camp Nobel just south of Timbuktu, our Swedish intelligence unit operates in a dangerous and difficult environment. It is often up to 45 - 50 degrees Fahrenheit [45 - 50 ° C.] in the white deserts of the Sahara. Since 2013, this has been a daily life that our Swedish sent military personnel have experienced during the most often six months they spend in one of the world's most dangerous countries for UN personnel. I would like to begin by highlighting and thanking all the Swedish soldiers who have the courage and commitment to take on such a demanding mission as this. I would also like to thank those in Mali for their civilian efforts, such as aid staff and police officers working in the area. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish force is part of the UN's operation in Mali, the so-called Minusma, which we are also talking about here today. As mentioned earlier, Sweden has a long and solid experience and tradition of sending foreign troops, and our commitment to Mali has been no less important. As long as the Malian government has not regained its control over the whole country, it is difficult to build a long-term sustainable Mali. Instead, it is a lawless country that harbors terrorists and continues to spread terror and despair in the Sahel region. The civil war has damaged the country tremendously. Despite the signing of a peace agreement, new battles have also arisen between groups that have signed. In addition, Al-Qaida-connected organisations and purely criminal ones create further uncertainty in the area. The Government therefore rightly wants to make available a Swedish armed force consisting of a maximum of 470 people for participation in the Mali operation, where the focus is as before on intelligence work. The participation shall be valid until 30 June 2018, provided that there remains a valid mandate for the force as decided by the United Nations Security Council. Mr President, I would like to Mali is one of the world's poorest countries, and Sweden recently adopted a new development aid strategy for Mali in 2016 – 2020. The strategy focuses on human rights and democracy, human security and the environment. The strategy is implemented by Sida and the Folke Bernadotte Academy. Women and women are the priority players in all actions. In addition to this bilateral aid, Sweden also provides humanitarian aid. As in the case of the operation in Iraq that we debated here earlier today, the military contribution is therefore part of a broader engagement in Mali. With those words, Mr President, I support the proposal by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to extend Swedish participation in the United Nations stabilisation operation in Mali.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-537	Mr President, I would like to This is the third matter dealt with by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in the spring. It is about the EU's marine effort, Atalanta. I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Mr President, I would like to Somalia is one of the world's most war-affected countries and has been marked for decades by bloody battles between clans, Islamist groups and weak transitional regimes. The suffering of the civilian population is very widespread. Sweden has a comprehensive and long-term commitment to Somalia with humanitarian aid, development aid, reconstruction efforts, democracy efforts and an active political dialogue. Since 2013, Swedish aid to Somalia amounts to SEK 300 million per year. Sweden also provides humanitarian aid in addition to this. Last year it amounted to SEK 170 million, and by mid-April this year Sweden had paid out SEK 194 million in humanitarian aid. The needs are enormous. The fact that Sweden will once again contribute to the EU marine effort Atalanta complements and reinforces this commitment. The Swedish contribution also strengthens Sweden as a credible and respected player in the framework of EU crisis management. If this House approves it, it will be the fifth time that Sweden participates in the EU marine operation off the Somali coast. The last time Swedish soldiers and sailors were present in Operation Atalanta was in February to May 2015. Mr President, I would like to To send a Swedish armed force on a mission in another country is a decision that entails a significant responsibility. The security situation in Somalia has been very uncertain for many years, and piracy off the coast increased markedly for a few years into the new millennium. The year at its worst, on average, almost one armed attack was recorded every other day. The international pool of forces, in which the EU's marine effort is a part, has produced results. The pirates have been fought back, and the sea outside Somalia is now relatively protected. Only three international merchant vessels have been taken by piracy since 2013, and the annual attacks have decreased to between zero and seven per year. But as late as March this year Somali pirates kidnapped crewmen from a merchant ship and hijacked an oil ship. The hijackings, which break the positive trend, are the first in five years. The problem of piracy therefore remains and may increase as a result of the difficult situation in Somalia, which in turn is getting worse rapidly due to the current drought. The humanitarian situation in Somalia makes the need for humanitarian aid very important. Much of the humanitarian aid comes into Somalia via maritime transport, and this makes it all the more important that the EU's marine effort can increase the safety of these very transports. There will be a lot of figures, Mr President. So far, 406 ships have been escorted with over 1 million megatons of food aid from the World Food Programme to Somalia with protection from Atalanta. There have also been no direct attacks on the World Food Programme shipments that the operation has escorted. It is therefore important for Sweden to be able to contribute. Mr President, I would like to As has been said during the two previous debate on the matter, it is a significant responsibility to make a decision to send a Swedish armed force on a mission to another country. Tragic experience shows that it is not possible to exclude the loss of human life in the context of peace-building missions and crisis management operations. This also means that this decision should be carefully considered. The EU is making an important contribution, and Sweden can contribute. That is what this proposal means. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to thank all Swedish women and men who are participating and who have participated in Sweden's international efforts and once again call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-TeKqox7fky1Nx2iDkdpuEe	Mr President, I would like to Brief background: A decade ago, the piracy off the Somali coast began to attract international attention. Piracy was characterized by pirates taking control of ships passing through the waters and requesting ransoms for crew, ship and cargo. The growing piracy activity led the UN in 2007 to request the escort of the UN Food Programme's humanitarian maritime transport to Somalia. The UN request subsequently led the EU to launch its first marine effort in 2008. In the next few years, there was a sharp increase in piracy, but, thanks to the mobilisation of the international community, we have seen in recent years a positive trend towards a decline in the success of pirates. As Karin Enström mentioned, only three international merchant vessels have been taken by piracy since 2013, and only a few attempts at attacks have been recorded. Sometimes, Mr President, when we discuss international efforts and, in particular, the extension of international efforts, the questions arise: does the Swedish effort make a difference? Are we helping the right way? For Operation Atalanta, I believe there is no doubt that the answer to these questions is yes. Somalia is a world's poorest country. During the spring, we have seen terrible pictures of malnourished Somali children cocked out. In campaigns UNICEF appeals for help. Some 6 million Somalis, half of the country's population, are deemed to be in need of humanitarian aid or protection. The country is balancing on the brink of a famine. In view of the very difficult situation, it feels very good that a united committee supports the report that Sweden will once again contribute to Operation Atalanta. Somalia needs the support of the outside world, and a significant proportion of humanitarian aid is transported by sea. The purpose of the Swedish grant is to protect ships that on behalf of the UN supply supplies and to deter and deter piracy. The Swedish force consists of a boarding force that includes two combat boats, and it will operate from a Dutch warship. The grant may amount to 35 people and, as is customary for this type of action, there is a possibility that, if the situation requires an extension of the staff framework. The very possibility of strengthening and evacuating is a reminder that no peace operations or, for that matter, stabilising operations are free of risks. But the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces, through previous participation in Operation Atalanta, have built up an experience and a knowledge of working in this challenging environment provides a form of security in the face of the challenge that is coming. Sweden has previously contributed both civilian and military with marine forces, and in 2010 we had the leadership responsibility for Atalanta's Force Headquarters. All in all, we must say that we are well prepared to return to the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to congratulate the men and women who make this effort possible and to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-557	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal. In all times shipping has been hit by pirates or pirates, as they are also called. Even in modern times, this is true, despite all the technology we have to help with navigation and monitoring. When Sweden assists in the EU-led foreign operation Atalanta, it is not primarily about military aid, but about our safeguarding common interests. Of course Swedish goods also pass in Adenviken, as well as Swedish shipping. In order to succeed in the fight against piracy, there are several aspects. A firm and consistent approach is needed so that pirates do not delude themselves about being able to deceive the fight against piracy in the long run. It is a great advantage if the pirates' boats do not return to Somalia in seaworthy condition, because they will soon be abused again. It is essential that the problem of the pirates' success in kidnapping seafarers is driven down to almost zero so that there is no hope of big money for the pirates that way. Operation Atalanta has been successful. Attacks on ships in Adenviken have decreased from annual just under 200 to about 5 a year. A powerful effort has broken down the problem. We will now participate with a boarding force, two combat boats and support personnel. Previously, Sweden has contributed in Atalanta with HMS Malmö, HMS Stockholm and HMS Carlskrona. The Swedish Democrats naturally support Sweden's participation in Atalanta. However, we think it is wrong that the cost falls on the Swedish defence. The Swedish defence is planning for a rapid construction of total defence of our own territory, and there is already too little funding for this. To allocate financial resources for peace operations abroad there is no room for within the defence budget. Hence our particular opinion. In the medium term, the specific problem of Somali piracy, which incurs considerable costs for many of the world's countries, must be solved permanently. The only permanent solution is that Somalia itself solves the problems of piracy.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-566	Mr President, I would like to What would never happen again is now about to happen again. In the Horn of Africa we are currently seeing the escalation of one of the most severe famines the world has seen since the UN was formed in 1945. After a long period of reduced hunger in the world – and not least on this continent – we are now seeing a very sad break of trend. 20 million people in four countries are affected. Up to 11⁄2 million children are at risk of dying this year, unless the international community reacts quickly enough. These are the effects of the climate change that once again hit the weakest and poorest in the world. But these are also the consequences of decades of war, human rights violations and the lack of democratic societies. It is in these barren environments that terror is fattened and nourished. Then the effects of the disaster multi-fold affect the population. They are held hostage by terrorist cells such as al-Shabab, while the aid to assist the population does not arrive or be decimated because of piracy and pirates at sea. Mr President, I would like to Most people probably know about c aptain Jack Sparrow and Pirates of the Caribbean. Perhaps there are many of us here who have laughed at his machinations. But when it comes to these pirates, there is absolutely nothing to laugh about. It is tragedy, death, crime, poverty and hunger that are at stake. At heart, we should not need the Band-Aid that our military efforts actually are. Instead, we must fight poverty and climate change. We must ensure that there is no fishing in the Gulf of Aden, so that Somali fishermen can actually feed on what they have been feeding on for centuries. Having said that, this effort is extremely important. It will help the broadcasts to reach the population starving in the area and where military assistance is needed for the delivery of relief supplies. Supported by Chapter 7 The UN Charter calls on States and international organisations to contribute to, prevent, deter and combat piracy and armed robbery off the Somali coast. It's against the background of what this bet should be seen. With this, I support the proposal in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Swedish participation in the European Union's Atalanta Marine Operation.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-578	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank This is another important effort that Sweden will participate in. It is an international commitment to secure transport in the region around the Horn of Africa. Given the security situation in the Middle East and in the Horn of Africa, there is every reason to give priority to this effort and to reason on how important it is to secure transport to and from Africa with relief supplies and supplies. Right now there are severe droughts, and 20 million people are exposed to starvation or are at risk of severe starvation. In fact, all the way from Yemen and all the way across Africa to Nigeria, countries are affected by the massive drought. It is important to contribute to ensuring, in various ways, a functioning, safe and safe fairway with commercial and passenger traffic. It is also important to be involved in further developing cooperation within European actions and cooperation in order to promote security and stability together. This shows how we can participate and develop the work within the framework of the UN. Together with, among other things, Dutch efforts, we develop our capabilities and also help people in need. Preventive measures cannot always be measured. But we can agree that they matter. It is very important that we in all parties stand united behind the continued efforts. It was two years since we last made efforts like this, and even then there were a number of people involved. Now the effort is about a bord ning's strength with combat boats and support personnel of 35 people to be involved. This will reduce the hijackings and hopefully guarantee that there will be no hijackings or attacks at all. It is also a preventive element in combating terrorism. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. I look forward to continuing this work and monitoring how the efforts will be carried out and hearing about the experience of the people who will participate in the forthcoming action, which will take place in the autumn. We have every reason to take advantage of this experience and also to monitor preventive work in Africa and the Middle East to see what further action is needed. This applies both to military policy and to aid policy. This enables us to contribute to creating good conditions for stability but also economic development and more peaceful relations between different provinces, communities and countries in the region. I would also like to thank those who take on the task and join the mission. I wish it would be a successful and continued good operation.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-586	Mr President, I would like to The ancient Lakonia and the Norrbotten of my childhood are said to have one thing in common: You express yourself briefly. That is why, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal on the marine operation under the name Atalanta. By the way, Atalanta is a heroine in Greek mythology. However, the link between the operation and mythology seems obscure, even for a northern settlement – or perhaps especially for one. To those who do this amazing job I want to say: Carry on that good work!
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-589	Mr President, I would like to I thought Stig Henriksson might be somewhat more wordy in the speaker's chair. I now recall that in an earlier debate today, Stig Henriksson called for examples of effective international military operations. The effort we are now discussing must be considered extremely successful in comparison with much else. However, it is important to recall that efforts in Bosnia, Kosovo, Cyprus and Lebanon have been stabilizing. Even if the problems have not been solved, security has been restored. It is important to have this said. This is the fifth time we have gone to the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean. This is exactly how it is, Mr President, that international military intervention should be carried out. You should make sure to come back again and again. It creates credibility, expresses solidarity and means efficiency when a capital of experience has been developed, as the Minister of Defence put it earlier. On two occasions we have been with HMS Carlskrona in Adenviken, and on one of the occasions Sweden led Operation Atalanta for some time. Mr President, over the years, even in this House, there has been some bad talk about what was called the G En masse Group – a group that worked in the early years of the Alliance. It feels important for me to say that HMS Carlskrona would never have come to Adenviken if that group had not existed. The proposal at the time was that the largest vessel in the Navy should become a signal-scanning vessel, and it would have been very sad. I support the committee's proposal.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-594	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal as a whole. The background is, among other things, that we have been called upon by the UN Secretary-General to increase international aid in order to prevent a famine in Somalia and the other countries surrounding the Horn of Africa. This is absolutely essential in order to protect the delivery of aid from the UN Food Programme in order to reach Somalia. The Swedish contribution will consist of 35 people – one boarding force and two combat boats – who will operate from a ship from the Dutch Navy. As has been said here before, this is not the first time that Sweden has taken part. It has taken place in the past on four occasions: 2009, 2010, 2013 and 2015. This has been an important part of stopping the widespread piracy that has been threatening a great many ships for years and has also prevented aid efforts from arriving. In short, Mr President, this is an important effort that Sweden is right to continue to be involved in.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-598	Mr President, I would like to I am puzzled that Mr Emilsson has not before me presented the views of the Swedish democrats on this matter; I have many questions to ask him. If he has the opportunity to answer them later, he may do so. Otherwise, I will now have to explain what the other parties think about this issue. Otherwise, all parties agree that this is an important proposal, which we shall approve. Last week, the Parliament adopted a museum law in broad agreement. Even then, the Swedish Democrats, as a single party, went against the other parties. The Museum Act is a legislation that I hope will be widely applied to disseminate knowledge and commitment on cultural heritage issues. Today's legislation, which is about providing greater protection for cultural heritage in the event of war, however, I hope, of course, that we will never ever have to apply in Sweden. Nevertheless, it is an important piece of legislation to get in place so that Sweden can also approve, ratify, the Second Protocol to the Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property in the event of armed conflict. Legislation must be in place in order for Sweden to approve the Additional Protocol and in this way also contribute to the protection of cultural heritage around the world. Unfortunately, the destruction of cultural heritage at war has once again ended up on the international agenda, because of IS progress. IS clearly aims to eliminate pre-Islamic cultural tradition from the areas under its control. Buildings, cultural heritage and books are being destroyed – not because they get in the way of military action, but because they are the very aim of the actions. This is not something you do in secret, on the contrary. It spreads images that smash Assyrian and Babylonian cultural objects, sculptures and other things, to show power and to recruit – exactly the same phenomenon that we saw a few years ago, when the Taliban regime ravaged Afghanistan. Among other things, they blew up the great Buddha statues in the country and urged their followers to destroy all non-Islam in so-called art. In this context, it is very important to know your history and know that this is not in any way just associated with Islamist extremists. The destruction of cultural heritage has existed in all times of war. The worst example, in fact, is the Second World War, where the Holocaust, in addition to the genocide of people, was aimed at erasing the Jewish cultural heritage. Even the allies during World War II deliberately destroyed cultural heritage, such as the bombing of Dresden. At least since 1815, international efforts have been made to address these issues. Then they came up to the table after the French plundering of cultural objects throughout Europe during the Napoleonic War. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, international legal principles developed for dealing with cultural heritage crimes. The first time people were convicted for this type of crime was at the Nuremberg trials after the Second World War. After that, until the wars in former Yugoslavia, people were again convicted of this type of crime. The wars in former Yugoslavia were, to a very large extent, about deleting cultural heritage in order to cut people's sense of belonging to certain geographical areas. Now I wish that the Swedish Democrats will be present so that I can ask Aron Emilsson which is the real reason why the Swedish Democrats are now slowing down Sweden's ability to act internationally to preserve cultural heritage. That is the consequence of not wanting to approve the draft law put forward by the government and the other parties. I hope that Mr Emilsson, who has now taken his place in the Chamber, will be able to answer that question.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-608	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a tradition of protecting cultural heritage and have since previously exercised to strengthen the protection and defence of our cultural heritage in the event of wars or crises through a cultural defence as part of a restored civil defence. We therefore also welcome the ratification of this issue in the Hague Convention. The Second Protocol of the Convention provides for the establishment of a new higher level of protection of cultural heritage of major importance to humanity and for certain acts to be criminalised under the national law of the Contracting Parties. The Protocol provides for the establishment of an intergovernmental committee to monitor the work and compliance with the Convention. Cultural property refers to immovable and movable property of great importance to the cultural heritage of each people, such as books, works of art, scientific collections, archives, groups of buildings and exhibition spaces for cultural property such as museums and libraries. The Protocol also clarifies that the Convention is to be applied in peacetime as well as in armed conflict, and the indicating parties undertake to take preparatory measures to prepare for the protection of cultural property in their territory. The Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden should ratify the Second Protocol to the Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property on 14 May 1954 as a matter of urgency. It is positive that the government is proposing ratification, but we believe that the government does not fully describe how Sweden should live up to the commitments that ratification entails. Several consultation bodies do not share the government's view that the costs of ratification are marginal. Among other things, the National Board of Antiquities stated in its referral that ratification will mean significant work both for them and for the county boards. In addition, Article 29 establishes a fund for the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict which Sweden has to deal with in the event of ratification. Although it is permitted, for example, to make up the fund of funds made up of private organisations, we believe that it is reasonable for the government to clarify how Sweden as a state should contribute financially. There is reason for the government to review and account for the extent to which funds may need to be committed in order for Sweden to comply with the international commitments of ratification. The National Antiquities Office believes that the implementation of the proposals will involve considerable effort and that resources must therefore be provided. Other consultation bodies, such as the National Property Board and the Swedish Library Association, also argue that resources are needed for the inventory, selection and labelling of cultural property, especially since a selection under the provisions of the Convention has not yet been made. We believe that the government should provide the necessary funds to the relevant authorities and to the fund to enable Sweden to fulfil the commitments that ratification of the Convention imposes on us as a state – hence our reservation. The Swedish Democrats also believe, like the Swedish Armed Forces' referrals, that it is more natural that the regulations that the government intends to place in the cultural law instead of being introduced into 22 chapters. or in another appropriate chapter of the Criminal Code. In view of the changing security situation in the world and our neighbourhood, we believe it is of the utmost importance that ratification takes place urgently. Although the government has not expressed a delay in ratification, I would like to point out that a call for ratification was already made in 2010. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-617	Mr President, I would like to I think I've never heard worse excuses. Aron Emilsson says that he wants ratification urgently, but what he does is in practice slow down the ratification that we other parties are proposing. Aron Emilsson gives two pretexts. One of the pretexts is that there is a budget linked to the issue. It is something that needs to be dealt with in the ordinary budgetary process; it is not a legislative matter. The second pretext is that Aron Emilsson points out that he wants the law placed in a different part than our lawyers suggest. I think that we leave it to the lawyers to find an appropriate place in the law and that we are engaged in politics. This means that we will produce legislation so that Sweden can approve the second protocol to the Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property in the event of armed conflict. When we debated cultural heritage issues last week, Aron Emilsson claimed that history has never created war. I believe that this is a statement that shows a great lack of knowledge and constitutes a dangerous attitude. On the contrary, history has been very much used to legitimise war and to mobilize and create hatred. For example, see the battle t at Trastfältet 1389. More than 6 00 years later, Serbian nationalists used that blow to mobilise their own. One important thing to realize is that collective memory can be selective. Some events are highlighted and brought forward. Other events are forgotten. You're left with a twisted perspective. That is why it is so important to increase knowledge of history and cultural heritage issues. That is why it is so important that we have got the Museum Act in place, which the Swedish Democrats also went against. I am convinced that with real knowledge of cultural heritage issues, Aaron Emilsson would probably also turn his back on the cultural policy of the Swedish Democrats.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-624	Mr President, I would like to It is somewhat comical and ironic when Niclas Malmberg from the Green Party accuses the Swedish Democrats of delaying and delaying a legislative process. I must point out that in a state inquiry in 2010, it was already stated that ratification of the delayed Convention should take place. It has been delayed – even during this government. Once one chooses to propose ratification, we welcome it. Of course, we have also stated this in committee and in the report. At the same time, it is important to take a proper holistic approach. The relevant consultation bodies and expert authorities, such as the Swedish Armed Forces, argue that war, crisis and armed conflict rarely take place in an orderly manner, and therefore it is good that events committed in an armed conflict are gathered in a legal room in the Criminal Code rather than in the Cultural Environment Act or in other laws for extraordinary events. It is perfectly reasonable for us to listen to the Swedish Armed Forces and the authority that sits with the expertise. This in itself is no contradiction to ratifying the Convention. Rather, it is a question of proper ratification. The Swedish Democrats are calling for the proposal to be approved under paragraphs 2 and 3. We see many good parts of the bill. On the other hand, we think that we must listen to the relevant authorities and do the right thing from the start and compensate the authorities who have said in the consultation round that ratification will lead to more work. If the authorities are to be given greater responsibility, resources must also be used to compensate for this. It's taking responsibility, and the government doesn't.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-629	Mr President, I would like to If the Swedish Democrats got what they wanted, they would delay approval of the protocol, meaning that Sweden would not contribute to the international efforts to protect cultural heritage. The Swedish Democrats refer to a referral from the Swedish Armed Forces. But from a legal point of view they say that they do not want to burden the criminal code with such regulations, which are not intended to be used so often and which will of course not be applied very often in Sweden. This regulation has a better place in the Cultural Environment Act. I leave it to the lawyers to make the legal assessment of where regulation best belongs in the legislation. On the other hand, I think it is important to get the legislation in place as a matter of urgency. The Swedish Democrats are slowing down. Mr Emilsson chooses not to comment on the second question I raise about historical developments. We must remember that genocide, unfortunately and tragically enough, is a recurring theme in human history. Genocide often follows the same pattern. Small cultural differences are exaggerated. One culture is presented as more legitimate than another. One values cultures and says that one is more high than another. People defined as belonging to the lower culture are dehumanized. Concepts like cockroaches or vermin appear. The genocide is lurking around the corner. We have heard the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats, and we see what lies in the direction of the key. It's time for us humans to learn from history so that it doesn't happen again.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-633	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin, for reasons of unusuality, by agreeing with Niclas Malmberg. Yeah, it's time we learned from history. I have claimed that lack of knowledge of history and lack of education creates wars and conflicts, not the opposite. We Swedish democrats have made that clear. This is also why, unlike the government in its cultural heritage bill, we have wanted, for example, to introduce into the new museum law that museums should have the primary and primary task of being collective educational institutions for the scientific gathering, research and display of our historical tracks and remains. They should not become a form of debate museums that set up some form of contemporary norm critical, integration policy or gender equality policy breaks. They're supposed to be educational institutions. It is clearly black and white in our accompanying motion. The Swedish Democrats have been pushing for the issue of greater protection of cultural property and a unique cultural heritage in the event of war and conflict, and I assume that the Green Party will also support motions and proposals in the future, for example, for a cultural defence as part of civil defence in order to safeguard and nurture the cultural heritage in the event of extraordinary events, not just through the International Convention. I look forward to being able to make a common start on this issue. We have the pleasure to look forward to, I hope – that this can be put in place just as quickly, as we also put it in our accompanying motion. Like the government, we want to do it, but we want to do it right.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-637	Mr President, I would like to According to a decision by the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority, Swedish nuclear power companies must have implemented measures for so-called independent core cooling, i.e. a cooling system that works for reactors even if the electricity was to be shut down – which could happen, we have noticed. Excellent! That is a very important requirement. But – a large but – the older reactors that are planned to be decommissioned should be able to obtain exemption from this requirement. Instead, it is necessary to introduce compensatory measures. This is a very strange order, I mean. If it has been found that independent core cooling is a very important requirement for the safety of nuclear power plants, this requirement should also be made – perhaps even above all! - on the oldest and most dangerous reactors. I believe that all Swedish reactors should be subject to the requirement and therefore call for approval of the Left Party's reservation. By the way, I can mention that I have tested the idea behind this exception. Because I have a ten-year-old car. Like all old cars, it has some flaws, but inspired by the decision of the Radiation Safety Authority I didn't bother to do any review before the inspection. However, I tried to explain to the inspector that the car has various defects and defects – it is old and so. But it's so old that I probably, in all probability, may still soon be putting it off. Then, in the interest of consistency, I should be able to do a few compensatory measures. Silver tape around the exhaust pipe. A larger floor mat over the rust holes in the canvas, or larger holes so that I could foot brake literally because the brake discs are very worn. But it didn't work at all! The car inspector said that it is old cars that it is particularly important to both inspect and fix. How different you can reason! And sometimes I think that a nuclear power plant can be even more dangerous than a car. That is why I support this reservation.
i-NFz7SNXnzvxe6797XteHw1	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the FÖU report13 and reject the reservation. In 2014, the European Council of Ministers adopted a directive, the Euratom Directive, amending an earlier directive establishing a Community framework for nuclear safety in nuclear installations. The aim was to increase the safety of facilities through national measures and international cooperation. The Convention has an incentive mechanism in the form of review meetings every three years when examining each other. The accidents in Harrisburg, Chernobyl and Fukushima show that what must not happen still happens. Then it is important to limit and prevent release. Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 15 August 2017 at the latest. The proposal essentially proposes amendments to the Nuclear Activities Act. The amendments clarify the responsibility of the licence holder for the safety of nuclear activities and introduce common principles for safety work and require continuous evaluation and verification of safety work. In addition, provision is made for the regulatory authority to be given transparency as to how the licence holder ensures that contractors, suppliers and other contractors comply with safety requirements and thus be given better supervision of safety work. The Government proposes to clarify in the Act that it is prohibited to carry out nuclear activities without a special permit. The Government also proposes that the provisions of the Directive on safety targets be incorporated into the Nuclear Activities Act, clarifying the construction, location, construction, operation, operation and decommissioning of nuclear installations with the aim of avoiding radiological emergencies. There should be several layers of security systems that take into account when a layer is flawed, i.e. that the principle of deep defence applies. This limits the consequences in the event of an emergency. The term a radiological accident is replaced by a radiological emergency, which is also defined in the law. The purpose of this is to make it clear that the law also covers situations that have not yet resulted in an accident. The Government also proposes to include provisions in the Nuclear Activities Act that make it clear that the licence holder has full responsibility for the safety of the nuclear installation.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-647	Mr President, I would like to This should really be a simple matter, a club matter as we call it, but now it didn't really happen because of a reservation. As far as safety is concerned, I believe we have a great deal of agreement in Parliament that systematic safety work is an important part of the work carried out at our nuclear power plants. There is, I believe, no dissenting opinion. On the other hand, the new directive has made us do more updates than the SSM and we as the legislative authority may usually do, because of what happened in Fukushima a number of years ago. There was no independent core cooling, which is thought to be the reason why the accident that occurred there became so serious. We can well say that although we do not have major earthquakes or tsunamis in Sweden, there may also be reason to have an extra layer of security. It may be in the event of a terrorist attack or other antagonistic attack. Then, of course, a double safety barrier is safer than a simple safety barrier. We all support this, of course. But the reservation I mentioned earlier comes from the Left Party. My picture of the purpose of the proposal put forward by the Left Party is that it is a little bit about what has unfortunately characterized the nuclear debate in Sweden. During the government of Persson there was a closure of the Barsebäck reactors, which I think was managed in an open and direct manner. They said we've decided to close them, and that's why we're replacing them. The market value of the plant was paid the crown for the crown. In recent times, my view is that instead of making those decisions and paying those compensations, we are trying to praise nuclear power by increasing various taxes and charges in such a way that it will become unprofitable while subsidising other forms of energy in order to make them potentially profitable. It is clear that in such a way we do not get an efficient energy market or a long-term safety thinking, which I think is very important. I think the reservation breathes that they wanted to praise nuclear power. Why else should we impose such high costs on nuclear reactors that would soon be closed down? Stig Henriksson took up the example with his old car. I think this is a fundamentally rather bad example, because the old car that could be compared to our nuclear reactors does not have the holes in the floor that Henriksson points out and does not lack lanterns. It may be an old Volvo, but it has been given side crash protection, ABS, airbags and even back camera. The reason why Henriksson thinks that the car is uncertain is not the actual reasons but more the formal reasons. What is missing may be the remote lock, the remote central lock, which basically has no effect on safety. The SSM, the Radiation Safety Authority, has stated that the other measures that can be taken correspond to the safety provided by the permanent measures to be taken at the plants that will remain in place over time. There is also an unanswered question. Let us look at the reactors that are about to be phased out! Oskarshamn 2 was closed in 2013 for a major renovation and will not be restarted. This summer Oskarshamn 1, Sweden's oldest nuclear power plant, will be permanently closed. In 2019 Ringhals 2 will be closed, and in 2020 Ringhals 1 will be closed. According to the decision taken by the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority, all nuclear reactors in Sweden will have independent core cooling after 2020. The proposal put forward by the Left Party aims to increase the cost of nuclear power in Sweden, but it is also completely ineffective, as all reactors in Sweden will have independent core cooling after 2020. Perhaps that is why, Mr President, Stig Henriksson was so quick to leave the premises. Perhaps he has understood that his proposal is fundamentally irrelevant. Therefore, he deviated from the possibility of taking lines. With this, Mr President, I call for the committee's report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-658	Mr President, I would like to The product or product of nuclear power is an issue that this House has been discussing for decades. That discussion will continue, even if in recent years the issue has become somewhat less polarized by the energy settlement concluded between five of the parliamentary parties. On the other hand, something that I think most people can support – it has been well illustrated in this debate as well – is the importance of a high level of safety on our existing nuclear power plants. Following the Fukushima disaster, this was something that the EU took on, and proposals for amended nuclear directives were presented. The implementation of those directives has given us the proposal we are discussing today. The focus today is on the Swedish regulations. But it is worth remembering the European perspective, because the impact of the new directives is likely not to be greatest in Sweden but in some Eastern states, where the general safety of nuclear power plants is lower. The new rules lay down, among other things, the so-called ‘deep defence' principle, i.e. that there should be several separate but overlapping protection systems and that there should be safety targets. Åsa Lindestam also preferred exemplaryly a lot of other effects of the new rules. The Green Party's line since we were formed has been that nuclear power poses safety risks and an undesirable environmental impact. That is why, of course, we welcome the fact that we are now taking further steps towards increasing safety and thus reducing the risks associated with Swedish nuclear power, and therefore, Mr President, I choose to support the proposal in the report.
i-fd2ba68b9f5b2e72-663	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report. It is sad that the Left Party is going with untruth and shows great ignorance by claiming that the oldest reactors in Sweden would be the most dangerous. What evidence does the Left have that the oldest reactors would be the most dangerous? Both Oskarshamn 1 and Ringhals 1 were designed in the 1960s, before the US requirements, GDC. They have unique solutions that make them more resistant to a complete loss of electricity than the newer plants. Ringhals 1 has a steam-powered auxiliary water system that can supply water to the reactor tank at full pressure, completely independent of the electricity supply. In Oskarshamn 1 there is an auxiliary capacitor that can remove the residual effects of the reactor without access to electricity and where the laws of physics itself cool the reactor. The advantage is that the energy is removed without any water being removed from the reactor tank. In fact, these plants would need significantly less modifications to meet the new requirements to be imposed, as they are well prepared in their original design for this malfunction. Given that nuclear power accounts for almost 40% of our electricity supply, state support for nuclear research has been extremely modest for a long time. Research and development in nuclear energy, on the other hand, need not be based solely on pure nuclear technology research. Research areas such as the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel and nuclear safety are areas that in some cases have a national distinctive character and therefore require national competence. However, in order to achieve new, modern and even more secure nuclear power in Sweden, a high level of national competence is also needed, and this requires increased support for nuclear research. Views of spent nuclear fuel have so far been marked by the very long times of final storage. It has been considered waste. However, this approach does not take account of technological developments. Today, we use only a few percent of the potential of the uranium that has been dug up, while the remainder is meant to be buried as waste. Several promising projects with different types of rapid nuclear reactors, also known as the fourth generation of nuclear power, are currently under way. In this type of reactor, nuclear fuel can be reused in the past, which opens up completely new perspectives. With fourth generation nuclear power, we could continue to produce nuclear power with unabated or increased power over thousands of years without having to break any new uranium at all. We are reducing the amount of waste by up to 99% and also reducing the need for final disposal from 100 000 years to less than 1 000 years. This does not in itself mean that the need for final storage will disappear. It is still important that we continue research in Sweden on the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel, but the time perspective changes dramatically. A future potential for exports of Swedish technology and know-how in the final storage of nuclear fuel is fully conceivable. Many issues must, of course, be left to international bodies to be resolved. There is therefore a need for national know-how to access research results and be able to participate actively in international bodies.
