i-388d1f9dd914d04d-9	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me whether I and the government believe that it is legitimate for tax money to be spent on labour market training for individuals who could have got a job without this effort. Christian Holm Barenfeld has also asked me, when it comes to the project Preparatory and Orienting Training, whether my assessment is that this type of training leads to more people getting into work. Active labour market policies mean that job seekers should be given access to measures that strengthen their job opportunities. Labour market training aims to make it easier for the individual to find or maintain a job and to prevent labour shortages from arising in the labour market. Preparatory and orientation training, as the preparatory action it is, shall be individualised and targeted at those who need to prepare in particular for another labour market policy programme, training or work. Depending on the labour market situation and individual conditions, Arbetsförmedlingen will assess which measures are most suitable to match a job seeker to a job. Such an assessment shall be made, inter alia, in view of the fact that the employment intermediary offers a job seeker a labour market training or preparatory training. It is important that labour market policy measures can be adapted to the needs of the labour market and to the needs of individuals. It is of course important to have a high level of accuracy in the use of labour market training and preparatory and orientation training so that their purpose is met. Of course, the stakes should not be directed at those who get a job anyway. Work is ongoing within the Public Employment Service to develop labour market training and to increase the accuracy of the use of Preparatory and Orienting Education. I follow this work closely. The Government decided on 22 June 2017 on additional directives for the ongoing labour market investigation. Under the Supplementary Directive ( Dir. 2017:71) the investigator will analyse and make proposals on how labour market training can respond to labour market needs and in what form and by which actors labour market training should be provided.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-16	Mr President, I would like to There are two interpellations in a debate here. One is about labour market training and the other is about preparatory and oriented training. The reason I wrote the interpellations is that we have discussed labour market training in the past – investments that spend a lot of money on. We in the Moderates have said that we want to cut back on these efforts on the basis of the results of labour market training. We have received presentations from, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office in the Labour Market Committee, where the results of the initiatives have been reviewed. IFAU has also made comments on labour market training. Recently, we also received a review of the results of the preparatory and oriented training courses. The Swedish National Audit Office has produced a report: Effects of the Swedish Public Employment Service's Preparatory and Orienting Education. What can be said about both labour market training and preparatory and orientation training is nothing more than that the result of them must be seen as a total failure. When the Employment Service itself evaluated labour market policy training, it was concluded that the result of all the billions we spent on labour market training was zero. There are few other things that we in Parliament would sit and decide to spend billions on knowing that they are not giving any of the desired results. When it comes to the preparatory and oriented educations, the Swedish National Audit Office comes up with something that is possibly even worse. It has been shown that the likelihood of getting a job for those participating in the preparatory and orientation training courses is lower than for those not participating in the actions. Having efforts that basically lead to people moving further from the labour market and are less likely to enter the labour market is something that should make us even more hesitant to spend billions of our tax money on them. I have therefore asked the Minister for Labour whether the assessment is that tax money should be used for this type of effort and, furthermore, whether the Minister makes a different assessment from the National Audit Office, not least in relation to the preparatory and oriented trainings – that they lead to more people getting into work, contrary to what the National Audit Office thinks, namely that they are a way of bringing people even further away from work. It would be interesting to hear the Minister discuss these issues a little. In contrast to the Swedish National Audit Office, does the Minister think that these are good efforts that create more jobs, despite the fact that the evaluations show the opposite?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-24	Mr President, I would like to I'll be happy to discuss this, but let's first sort out a few things. In terms of labour market training between 2000 and 2007, between 70 and 80 per cent of those who took part in these training courses received a job immediately after the training. Then the policy was changed. Perhaps Christian Holm Barenfeld remembers v ilka who sat in the government and was responsible for labour market policy in 2007? Then there was a dramatic blunder, and after that it went down to 20-30 percent, moving on to work after labour market training. Of course, this cannot be done on a lasting basis, but the figures must be raised. Labour market training must be used in a way that really leads to employment. Now the numbers are rising. More people are now coming to work after labour market training. But I'm still not happy. I still think that the level is too low, and more needs to be done to achieve greater accuracy, direct training to the right people and follow up properly afterwards. Let us be honest, Christian Holm Barenfeld, and say that it was during the time that you ruled at the Ministry of Labour that we were down to zero effect of labour market training. Since then it has risen, but not enough. I'm not happy, and more needs to be done. When it comes to Preparatory and Orienting Education, the conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office are very interesting and important. The main conclusion drawn by the Swedish National Audit Office is that no conclusion can be drawn. They say that this is difficult to measure, and they urge Arbetsförmedlingen to have a different systematics and other structures for when deciding to put in preparatory and oriented education, for which groups and why and follow up the results in a different way. I share this view, because it is important that we know and see the results of the various actions that the Public Employment Service has the opportunity to use. It is, of course, always important to ensure that tax money is used properly. The Swedish National Audit Office has not yet examined how Preparatory and Orientation Training works for newly arrived students in the establishment assignment, which is the largest group that currently uses this type of training. The majority of those in Preparatory and Orienting Education are enrolled in the establishment mission today. It has been different in the past, during the previous government, which is a time that the Swedish National Audit Office has also reviewed, but that is how it is today. This is now being reviewed by the Swedish National Audit Office, and it will be interesting to follow. There are, of course, things that need to be improved and changed in terms of both labour market training and preparatory and orientation training. But it cannot be concluded that these training courses are a failure. I think that one should be a little careful if one represents the party responsible for labour market policy and the Ministry of Labour when the big race took place in terms of the impact of labour market training.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-33	Mr President, I would like to Let's be honest, says Ylva Johansson. I assume that we on both sides are in all debates and at all times. I think we should be clear and have an honest purpose. There is nothing else in my questions to the Minister. Numbers are being rebuffed, and the most important thing is to get the numbers up. Yes, the most important thing is to get the numbers up. But the figures must have concrete content and end up where they are intended. Of course, that is what happens when we do what we do and the training of labour market policy is directed at those who are closer to the labour market than at the time of the alliance government, as is true. We chose to transfer funds to those who were further away from the labour market. Then it's clear the numbers are going down. We did not think it was good enough anyway, although this was addressed to those who were further away from the labour market. But on the direct question to the Swedish National Audit Office – if you do as you did today or as you did before the alliance government, then the assessment is that the people on whom you spend billions in labour market policy education would have got a job even without the labour market policy educations – is the answer yes. Then, of course, an authority does not want to take a definitive stand. But one can work a little bit and ask: If you were to invest the money yourself, would you be putting it on people who are further away from the labour market or on those who are close to the labour market? The answer, then, is that people who are further away from the labour market should be targeted, because those who are close to them still get jobs. Hopefully the numbers will rise. But we have not solved the fundamental and major problem of the Swedish labour market today. As we can read about in the media almost every day, Sweden is generally doing very well now. We are in a fiery boom, but in all probability it will not last forever. This is usually the case in the Swedish economy and in all other countries' economies, namely that it goes up and down. Today is going very well. But we have a large group of people in Sweden that is not doing well. It is the people who are far removed from the labour market and who, day by day, end up further and further away from the labour market and, furthermore, are growing more and more. We find it difficult to deal with these people and get to work. The question then is: should not the efforts rather be directed at those groups which are far from the labour market and which may not be able to find work without assistance today? That is why we on the side of the Moderates and the Alliance are proposing a wide range of measures to lower thresholds for people who are far from the labour market. Properly managed, properly procured and properly focused, parts of labour market training could certainly be useful there. But perhaps we should not involve those closest to the labour market in labour market policy training, but ensure that they come to work as soon as possible. When it comes to preparatory and orientative training, it is never very easy to draw conclusions and have precise figures. However, it was very clear in the Swedish National Audit Office's report that it was lower earnings for jobseekers who had participated and who were openly unemployed at the same time. Nevertheless, it is a warning signal that makes it necessary to sit down and go through and analyse very carefully to see how to ensure that tax money is spent more effectively.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-43	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the last thing that Christian Holm Barenfeld said. I believe that the Swedish National Audit Office's report on preparatory and orientative education really is a basis for sitting down and going through and analysing how to use resources as well as possible and more accurate than we do now. I fully agree with that view and assume that the Employment Service also does so. With regard to the question of who should be offered labour market training, two criteria should be met. The first is that it should be a person who hadn't got a job anyway. Of course it is. People who can get a job without labour market policies should not have labour market policies. That's it. That is one of the reasons why, for example, we are phasing out some of the efforts that we have put in place and which have actually proved to be unnecessary. Young people got jobs without the help of trainee jobs, for example. Of course, labour market policy efforts should not go to people who can get jobs anyway. However, with regard to the second criterion, which I believe should be met, it is possible that we differ. Christian Holm Barenfeld can answer that later. I believe that labour market training should not go to people who do not have a good chance of getting a job after the training. If you use labour market training as an effort without thinking that it will lead to a person getting a job in the profession that he or she is training for, I actually think that there is a great risk of wasting taxpayers' money. This training should therefore be given to people who have a good chance of getting a job through the operation. It should not be given to people who have a good chance of getting a job without effort, and that group is quite large. There are also people who are currently being met by labour market training courses. But you have to work better on how to follow up afterwards. Mr President, I would like to In order to nuance the debate, I would also like to say something about the time when labour market training showed zero impact – on the time when we had moderate management at the Ministry of Labour, when we measured the proportion that got jobs right after the education. However, IFAU has shown in a larger analysis that they produced a long-term effect several years afterwards. Labour market training provided individuals with a higher income than they would have received without such labour market training. This may indicate that the impact of labour market training must also be measured a little longer than the 90 days that I believe the Employment Service is measuring today. The IFAU report shows that an effect of labour market training may come years later, i.e. that the training has a longer best-before-date than I might have thought. That is what IFAU's review can tell.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-48	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by saying that a great deal is about the fact that it is better now than before and that what does not work is the fault of the alliance government during their time in 2006– 2014. I don't fully believe that. In the same way, I do not believe that the current government is fully responsible for and should have the credit for the prosperity that we are now in. I believe that even the current government and labour market policy during Ylva Johansson's time, which I think is missing far too much when it comes to proposals for more jobs and for exclusion to be reduced, are doing the right thing on certain points. Of course it is. I think everyone has the ambition to do good things, and then we have different proposals. Of course, I do not think that we should carry out labour market policy training programmes that do not ensure that people have a reasonable opportunity to get to work. But I also believe that the vast majority of people have an ounce of work capacity. That is why I think it is reasonable for us to invest a little more in those who have a longer road to the labour market. Although the criteria are now such that you should not really give labour market policy training to people who still get jobs, it is telling that the Swedish National Audit Office makes the assessment that a very large part of these people would get jobs anyway. Then I think it is better management, more efficient and a greater responsibility with taxpayers' money to ensure that we try to break exclusion and ensure that those who are far removed from the labour market get back into it.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-50	Mr President, I would like to To be clear, I am, of course, fully responsible for the labour market policy being pursued, and I have been for three and a half years. That is entirely my responsibility and not that of the previous government. However, Christian Barenfeld referred to a period when we had a really small transition from labour market training to work, and that period was actually during the previous government. The proportion of people going to work is now increasing. However, I am not satisfied. Much more needs to be done. We have reason to come back to this issue. Thank you for the debate.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-52	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me whether I intend to take new measures to reduce the job gap between native and foreign born. He has also asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the labour market and strengthen integration. Despite strong labour market developments with more than 200 000 more in work since the government took office, a youth unemployment rate which is the lowest since 2003 and an employment rate for foreign born who is the highest since the beginning of the measurement, there is of course more to do in order for more people to leave unemployment for work and for employers to find the labour force they are looking for. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government is investing in strengthening efforts within the labour market and the establishment of newcomers. A new regulatory framework for the establishment of newcomers in working and social life will enter into force on 1 January 2018. The new regulatory framework strengthens the Swedish Public Employment Service's ability to provide the right responses based on the individual's needs, while clarifying the requirements for the individual. The previous government introduced a right for newcomers to take part in establishment efforts. This government imposes an obligation to participate. In the Swedish model, rights and obligations are in balance, equal for all. At the same time, an education obligation is introduced for newcomers. Everyone who can work should work, but those who need training to get to work should take part in education. In order to tackle the two-way labour market in the long term, it is crucial that more people acquire the necessary training to take up the job vacancies. The government therefore also tightens the requirements for all unemployed persons who are deemed to be in need of training to apply for and take part in regular education. This applies to any training that can be carried out under a labour market policy programme with activity support, development allowance or start-up allowance. The possibility of subsidised employment represents an important route to jobs for groups that are far from the labour market. However, the various subsidised jobs have been perceived as complex, difficult to understand and, overall, not sufficiently powerful. The government therefore intends to reform the system of subsidised employment. Several employment grants are merged into a unified, more powerful support – introduction jobs. This will lead to a simpler system that is deemed to create the conditions for more people to get subsidised employment. Far too few women born abroad participate in the labour market. The fact that more women born abroad make themselves available to the labour market and receive their own livelihood is a high priority for the government. In order to close the employment gap between native and foreign born, it is essential that more foreign-born women come into employment. In the Budget Bill, the Government presents a series of efforts to promote the participation of more women born abroad in the labour market. These include efforts to increase women's entrepreneurship, further promotion of the Delegation for Young People and Newcomers to work, and resources for study associations for outreach and motivating actions specifically aimed at foreign-born women.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-59	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ylva Johansson for the answer to my interpellations. The issue is once again how to try to improve the labour market, try to improve access to the labour market and strengthen the integration of the people who have come to our country. It is about reducing the large job gap that we see between native and foreign born and which, of course, increased further after the refugee crisis in 2015–2016. Surely we have not all seen the full impact yet, given that a lot of people are still in the start-up phase. The government had high tailings ahead of the 2014 elections with a bunch of bigger bets. The really big one was the trainee job, which they promised 32,000 of. There was sort of nothing about it; there were some people who got trainee jobs, but it was a high cost. Trainee jobs have now been phased out, and I think that was a sensible proposal. Although it was one of the most important electoral promises, it is good that the government, when this turns out not to work, swallows pride and actually scraps the project. We know that Ylva Johansson will have a number of arguments that show that the labour market is going well, that it is booming and so on. But that does little to help the people I talked about in the previous debate, that is, all those people who are in exclusion and far from work – or who may never have had a job – and who, every day that goes by, are getting further and further away from a job. In addition, they get more friends every day because more and more people end up in this alienation. Not everyone is born abroad, and not everyone is newly arrived, but a very large part is. Now we have agreements between the Alliance and the government on some migration issues. We have, of course, pushed for a great deal of tightening up, and I think that is wise. I think training for newcomers is wise. I think the reform the government wants to implement may be good, but it is difficult to know where it lands because it has obviously not yet received answers from trade unions. As far as trade unions are concerned, the Minister has a much closer relationship and closer ties through trade union-political cooperation than we Moderates have. What we can see is that a number of LO associations have said that they do not want to be part of the new job reform, and therefore we continue to maintain our entry jobs as a possible new, alternative form of employment – based on the importance of this. However, we do not have the LO federations in our political leadership, so we do not have that direct contact. However, it could be interesting to hear something more there. Otherwise, I do not think I see very many concrete proposals from either the Minister for Employment or other ministers on how and if so, when they intend to implement clear measures to reduce the employment gap between foreign and domestic born and how to improve and strengthen integration. This is the key for us to be able to take good responsibility for the reception of refugees and to ensure that people can contribute to and build the Swedish welfare.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-66	Mr President, I would like to Let me first make a few clarifications. The employment gap between native and foreign born is narrowing. It has declined steadily for many years, and it continues to do so. The employment rate for all groups is increasing, but it is increasing more rapidly for women born abroad and men born abroad than for natives. So the gap is narrowing. The number of people living in what the Moderates tend to call abstinence, i.e. those who depend on insurance or benefits for their livelihood, is at a historically low level. It was a long time ago that so few people, full-year equivalents, depended on a livelihood other than work. These developments have therefore moved in the right direction. I would like to say that the challenge of the many new arrivals in the labour market can hardly be overestimated. That is a very big challenge. Although developments are now moving in the right direction in terms of the employment rate, there is reason to be concerned and to take more steps to meet the challenges ahead and are in the midst of. One of the important challenges is waiting times. Today we have waiting times of an average of up to 15 months to have our application processed, i.e. to know whether you get a residence permit or not. Then we have an average of six months' waiting time before you are placed in a municipality, and we have an average of four months' waiting time before you can start SFI or register with Arbetsförmedlingen and get your establishment plan. This is dangerous. I think it is extremely dangerous to go so long in passivity without taking active action. It's one of the important things to deal with. Other things you have to do when you have such major challenges in the labour market are to undertake structural reforms. The government has done so, and we do not rule out the need for further structural reforms. An important one is that all municipalities today have to accept new arrivals – that was not the case before – and that we benefit from the conditions that exist in the labour market and from the new arrivals that the municipalities have received before. It is a very important structural reform, as international comparisons also show. We have made structural changes in parental insurance, which risked becoming a female trap. We have abolished the custody allowance and made changes in parental insurance so that you get less time at home with the children you have with you when you come to Sweden, i.e. already born children, than you get with a newborn child. We are making changes in vocational education and training – we are making professional packages for the many who, in a first step, will not make it through an entire vocational training course in upper secondary school. We are also making changes in the establishment reform, as I told you in my interpellation response. And I think more reforms will be needed. We have recently received the Employment Service's report, which says that youth unemployment has halved and that the 90-day guarantee is now being met. That is very welcome. One important reason why it has been possible to achieve this success is that we have chosen to cooperate with the municipalities. We can also see that young people who do not work or study have become fewer. That's good. There is even more to be done in this area, but we have shown success there. Now we are in the middle of the challenge with the new arrivals. There too, municipalities will be important. But I think it is almost impossible to do the job without working with the social partners. That is why I am so pleased that the parties have now reached an agreement in principle in a very constructive manner and in an unusually rapid manner, and that they now want to negotiate with the government. I will talk more about that in my next speech.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-76	Mr President, I would like to I will start with what is good and also do a small historical exposé and continue to look a little backwards, as not only Ylva Johansson but a large part of the government ministers are happy to do with the previous two terms of office, and possibly refer to terms of office before. There are, of course, differences. It's booming now, there was a financial crisis then. But I share the Minister's analysis that the Migration Board's long processing times are worrying, embarrassing and a huge challenge. I also understand that, given the great influx that has been, it is not simply for either the Migration Board or the government, but it requires action. For it was so, if we are to continue the historical exposé, that when the Alliance took office, the length of proceedings was also far too long. The applications were far too extensive and far too bureaucratic, and then we had completely different levels. But then there was a moderate minister of migration, and the processing times were more than halved without reducing the number of applications for this purpose. It is also about how to act, so I hope that the government will deliver more. Then you can also regulate what you can do in the meantime and so on. It is a series of efforts that have now been made and which the Minister outlined. As the Minister is well aware, we agreed in the negotiations between the government and the alliance parties on certain issues, while perhaps we were a little less pleased with other issues than those we were pursuing. That's where we found a compromise. It is important for us, too, in opposition to take responsibility, when given the opportunity, for what is best for our country and to ensure that integration is strengthened and exclusion is reduced. It is good that youth unemployment is falling. After all, the economic boom is a very important part of this. In the Social Democratic Aftonbladet yesterday, it was relatively clear that perhaps everything is not the government's merit. On the other hand, I believe that cooperation with the municipalities is important. I believe that every government should have a good cooperation with our municipalities, because you can do a lot out in the country's municipalities. I also think it is good if the social partners can agree, take responsibility and show that they want to move forward. We are very happy on the part of the Moderates, – and I am absolutely convinced that my alliance friends are equally happy – if the social partners take on board the proposals on the entry jobs we want to have to lower the thresholds for those who are far removed from the labour market. There, the employers' side and parts of the workers' side have shown a clear will. Unfortunately, there are a number of important trade unions on the LO side who are obviously not so interested – a number of the trade unions where we know that very many of those who are commonly referred to as simpler jobs exist. Of course, a large part of the point goes wrong, even if an agreement is reached.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-82	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have taken responsibility in the Migration Agreement, a very important cooperation that we have also had with the other parties behind the Migration Agreement. I welcome Christian Barenfeld's constructive attitude here in the debate, because, as Christian Barenfeld says, we face huge challenges. We all do well to try to work together on what is good for Sweden – I think the political differences will still be clear to the voters – and together do what is necessary to meet the major challenges we face. One of them is about more ways into the labour market. There the parties have reached an agreement in principle, and as I said, I am very happy about it. I think it's come a long way, and they've worked faster than I expected. They have met each other's important demands constructively. Now they want to negotiate with the government, and it is I who is appointed to be the government's side that they will negotiate with. I will meet the social partners a first time on Friday and start this work. There will also be extensive work within the Government Office. I won't speculate on what we end up landing in. But I can say so much as that it is absolutely my hope and belief that we will be able to land in something that will be acceptable to all parties involved and that the new employment contracts will thus become a reality. I believe that this will be an important piece of the puzzle in order to cope with the many new ways into the labour market that are necessary to cope with the many new arrivals looking for jobs but also to meet the great skills needs that exist today in the labour market.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-86	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your intervention. As Ylva Johansson says, in the policy I pursue I try to be as constructive as possible and, to refer to previous contributions, of course also have an honest intention of the whole thing. That is why we appreciate that in those issues where we find solutions we can reach agreements where we can take responsibility for strengthening incentives for more people to get into work, lower thresholds in the labour market and so on. That is why we are putting forward a wide range of proposals, including those on which we agree. We do not think it is good to increase taxes on labour, because it makes it less attractive to work. The difference between working and not working, combined with benefit increases, then becomes smaller. When taxes are raised on entrepreneurship, there is also a very high risk that this will have a negative impact on the labour market, even though we are currently experiencing a boom. But, as I said, booming does not last forever. That is why we are clear that we want to have reduced taxes on labour and lower thresholds on the labour market. In addition, there is a need for simple jobs, jobs that you can often get as your first job, jobs that have low qualification requirements but may not always be easy to do. They require talent, but they have low entry requirements. Many such jobs can be found in the RUT industry, for example. There I am pleased that the Alliance managed to get some reinforcements through the Migration Agreement, but we know that it has weakened in amounts during its term of office. We propose a triple. We're proposing admissions. We are proposing compulsory education, which is a good part that is included now. We also want a ceiling. All of this is to increase incentives for jobs to become more and exclusion to decrease. Thank you for this debate.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-91	Mr President, I would like to Just one correction: the tax resources allocated to RUT services have increased and continue to increase. Demand is increasing and increasing all the time, so we are spending more and more tax money on subsidising such services. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for a constructive debate. I am sure of a Christian Holm Barenfeld and I will return to this debate several times, because these challenges will remain in the labour market, even if we succeed in many of the things we hope to achieve. I also hope for constructive cooperation on the many important reforms that need to be made in this area.
i-FU19Uz3UwtUHoNubSya4ug	Mr President, I would like to Lars Hjälmered has asked Minister Mikael Damberg . the impact on the competitiveness of the business sector which, according to his assessment, results from the fact that a solution to the port problems is far from two years in time; If he and the government have analysed the impact of port problems on the transport costs of industry. Lars Helmered has further asked me If I am prepared in any way to change or speed up the handling of the investigation in order for a solution to the port problems to be in place more quickly than in two years' time. 中 how many jobs, in my opinion, are at risk of disappearing as a result of a long-term conflict in the port of Gothenburg. Lars Hjälmered has also asked Minister Tomas Eneroth What consequences he and the government estimate that lost transoceana direct flights will have for Swedish infrastructure and Swedish industry What measures he intends to take to address the port problems so that Sweden can continue to have operational logistics flows with transoceana directly run by ships to Gothenburg and Sweden. Lars Helmered has also asked Minister Karolina Skog The environmental impact of the transfer of goods from rail and ship to lorry, given the port of Gothenburg the measures she takes to minimise these effects on the environment; Jessika Roswall has finally asked me 中 what is the reason why the time for the investigation of the port conflict should extend until May 2018. The interpellations addressed to ministers Mikael Damberg, Tomas Eneroth and Karolina Skog have been handed over to me. The government defends the Swedish labour market model and the constitutionally protected right to strike. The model contributes to a labour market in socio-economic balance and work peace that benefits both employers and employees. It is a model with a capacity for rapid conversion and adaptation. It helps Sweden to maintain both high employment and high productivity. Overall, the Swedish labour market has very few lost working days due to conflicts compared to other countries. But the long-term conflict in the port of Gothenburg is an example of a situation in which the Swedish model does not work satisfactorily. I would like to stress that no one but the parties can resolve the situation in the port of Gothenburg. There is a huge responsibility on the part of the parties to agree on a solution, although none of the parties has taken any action in the port since June this year. The State may, in accordance with the provisions in force, assist in mediation through the Mediation Institute. The state also has a responsibility to ensure an effective regulatory framework with long-term sustainable and clear rules of the game that enable the parties to continue to take responsibility for regulating the conditions on the Swedish labour market. The situation in the port of Gothenburg is serious. It is a problem that is not only isolated to West Sweden and Gothenburg. Other regions in Sweden are also affected. The port of Gothenburg is a transport hub for a large part of Sweden's logistics and trade, and it is crucial that the port's part in the transport chain can function effectively. The uncertainty surrounding the situation in the container terminal not only affects the port's customers and the companies transporting goods to and from the port. It also risks threatening Sweden's competitiveness and Swedish jobs. The Government decided on 22 June 2017 to set up an investigation into a review of the right to take combat measures on the labour market. The assignment shall be presented by 31 May 2018. The investigator shall, inter alia, analyse and assess whether it is possible and appropriate to restrict the right to take action for purposes other than the regulation of the terms of a collective agreement. The investigator's task is also to review whether changes to the rules of peace are needed in situations where an employer, who is bound by a collective agreement in relation to an employee organisation, is subjected to countermeasures by another employee organisation. If the investigator concludes that constitutional changes are necessary, the investigator shall also submit proposals for the necessary constitutional changes or other measures. The right to take action is an important and fundamental part of the Swedish labour market model. There are already restrictions to the right of action. If further restrictions are to be imposed on the constitutionally protected right to take action, very careful consideration and thorough preparatory work are required. The time available to the investigation is a balance between the interest in urgency and the interest in the investigation providing sufficiently thorough consideration and proposals that are possible for the government to proceed with.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-110	Mr President, I would like to The port of Gothenburg is by far the largest port in Sweden. It is local, but it has a national significance. A large part of Swedish imports and exports pass through Gothenburg. Both for Swedish companies and ultimately for the Swedish economy, it is absolutely crucial that the Port of Gothenburg functions reliably. The container port in Gothenburg has been struggling with conflicts and threats of conflict for several years, and the effects are very great. Many companies, such as SKF, Akzo Nobel, Volvo, Lindex, Löfberg Lila, Stora Enso and others, have testified about the problems they have with delayed deliveries and the need to find alternative transport routes when importing and exporting goods. As a result, freight has moved from rail and ship to long lorry transport, completely unnecessarily. A competitive advantage for the port and for Sweden has long been what they call direct flights, i.e. that large ships go directly from Gothenburg, with few stops on the road, to important ports and destinations in North America and the Far East. It has given companies in Sweden cost-effective, fast and environmentally efficient transport without unnecessary transhipment. Mr President, I would like to As a result of the port problems, several shipping companies have announced that they will stop driving this type of ship to Gothenburg. After two major shipping companies did so, a further announcement came just last week, namely that the company ACL, Atlantic Container Line, will stop driving the important direct line between Gothenburg and the American East Coast in January next year. It should be remembered that about 10 percent of Swedish goods exports go to the United States. The ACL has been operating this traffic for 50 years, and I am frankly saddened by this. This message is really bad for Sweden. The core of the port problems concerns collective agreements and conflict law. The Ports of Sweden and the Transport Workers' Association have an existing collective agreement, where they agree on wages and other conditions. Fighting measures should be able to take, but an important principle is also that peace obligations should apply when one has taken in hand. Now there is another organisation that has taken action and threatened with conflict. Their actions have an impact on the business community and also challenge principles in the Swedish labour market. The government has set up an investigation in response to this, which should look at when you get to take conflict action and a number of other things. However, I think that the government's handling of this part is somewhat slow. The investigation should not be completed until May 2018. Then the preparation takes place, and this means that a possible solution is far away two years in time. In the meantime, Swedish companies and the Swedish economy are affected. There are a number of experts in the Swedish labour market who say that it is possible to get proposals within a few months if the government chooses to give a new assignment to the investigator, force the work and during the spring return to the Riksdag. This presupposes, however, the existence of political will. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have the will to solve the port problems. We now extend a hand to the government. We are prepared to sit down with the government and resolve the port problems as soon as possible. Therefore, I would like to ask Ylva Johansson : Are you prepared to solve this important social problem together and above the block border and to return to Parliament with a concrete legislative proposal by spring at the latest?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-120	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister, although it is an answer that we have heard very many times before! The first paragraphs of the answer I think I have read a number of times already, and it is a little regrettable that the Minister for Labour does not take this issue more seriously than she is copying previous answers. The container port in Gothenburg has been wrestling with conflict and threats of conflict for a long time. The core of the port conflict concerns collective agreements and conflict law. As Lars Helmered said, the Ports of Sweden and the Transport Workers' Association have an existing collective agreement. We have been able to see clearly what effects this has had. Only the other day, we were told that a freight line is being lost between Gothenburg and the United States, where one of the reasons is said to be the ongoing conflict and the threat of conflict. There are also a lot of data on the decline in productivity and the consequences this has for companies all over Sweden: we will certainly come back to that in this debate. In my interpellation, I asked the Minister what is the reason why the time for the investigation into the port conflict should extend until May 2018. The answer from the Minister for Labour is that the government defends the Swedish model and the constitutionally protected right to strike. I'm pretty sure we're all in here. Fighting measures are part of labour law, but another important element is the duty of peace, which applies when an agreement is signed. Despite existing collective agreements, we see that another trade union organisation has taken action. The Minister for Labour admits in his reply that this is an example of when the Swedish model does not work satisfactorily. I really agree with her. I know that the Swedish model has served and served us well. We have been greatly spared from conflicts. However, the current conflict in the port of Gothenburg shows that the model contains shortcomings. The Mediation Institute, which is an example of one of the tools available, has been trying to mediate for several months but did not succeed and requested its own resignation. The conflict in Gothenburg challenges the principles that exist about how agreements on the Swedish labour market are negotiated and nurtured. The parties shall take responsibility, the Minister replies. Yes, but when one party doesn't, shouldn't the government assume its responsibilities? My view is that the government should have done so much earlier and before the investigation was even in place, and I do not understand why it takes so long. What is to be investigated is not a revolutionary change in the right to strike or the duty of peace, but a rather simple directive. I'm amazed it's taking so long. There have been criticisms from many different quarters that the investigation is taking so long. There are other matters on the government table where no investigation has been set up, but there may have been enough, for example, a departmental letter which has been dealt with in the usual way since referrals have been made, processed by the Law Council and then sent to the Riksdag. The Minister seems as convinced as the rest of us here today that the situation in the port of Gothenburg is serious, not only for Gothenburg but for the whole of Sweden. There is every reason to speed up the work. It is correct that there is currently no conflict in the port of Gothenburg, but the threat remains and is felt by the entire business community. As I said, this has consequences for the whole of Sweden. We can't afford to wait. My question to the Minister for Labour is therefore whether she is considering a quicker solution to the situation.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-130	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What we are seeing now is something that is tragic in many ways. Whether you are sitting on the right or the left side, what we are witnessing in the harbour of Gothenburg is a failure, and it is a failure that has been going on for four or five decades. This is not really a labour market conflict, which is about wages or working conditions, but a conflict between two trade unions which cannot be reconciled. The conflict has meant that two thirds of the container cargo flow in the port of Gothenburg has disappeared in just over six months. Of all goods that go to and from Sweden, 90 per cent go to water, and 60 per cent go through the port of Gothenburg. This has a powerful impact on the Swedish economy, Mr President. The whole thing is tragic for all those companies that are now paying much more to deal with the consequences of a trade union battle. As my colleagues have told me, the other day the large shipping company ACL announced that it is now leaving the port of Gothenburg. A long tradition is broken. But it is not for the sake of tradition that we are debating here, but because of the absurd fact that there is a labour market conflict between two trade unions where the one on the one side actually has no quarrel with the other side. Their fractions cause consequences that cost billions of SEK for Swedish and foreign companies. The transport company SCT Transport announced earlier this year that it would close its rail terminal in Jönköping. Freighting containers by train is no longer worthwhile, as import and export flows are moved to other ports. In addition, two lines to the container port have been closed as a result of the need to cancel eight trains a week. This is not about Gothenburg but Jönköping, in the middle of Götaland. The West Swedish Chamber of Industry and Commerce points out that goods that need to be reloaded involve additional costs of between SEK 10 000 and SEK 20 000 per container. Now we, Mr President, the Government and everyone else, are beginning to understand the extent and consequences of these two trade unions not being able to agree. The harbor beacon has been running its line for many years. It has been driven in a way that is very unorthodox from the perspective of the Swedish model. For a trade union organization, the whole thing has been run very unorthodox. Today, there are commodity owners who are afraid to speak out on the matter, as they fear that the goods will be destroyed in the containers at night. I would like to ask the Minister: Is it not time to begin to regard the Port lighthouse as something other than just a trade union organisation? Given that things are happening every week as a consequence of the conflict that has been – it is becoming increasingly difficult, more expensive and more complicated – I would also like to ask whether there is no reason to give an additional directive to the investigator so that we can produce a basis for a new law that really bites when someone abuses the Swedish model.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-139	Mr President, I would like to Much has been said on this issue, and it is about a conflict that really paralyses and risks Swedish growth and economy and where the company, the employer, has taken all the responsibility that we can legally and reasonably demand. It is a conflict between two rival trade unions – an a with a decent revolutionary and unorthodox working method. The strike has not been about strengthening port workers' wages. It is rarely shown in the media that the average wage for the workers in the port of Gothenburg is SEK 49 527 per month, according to the latest figure I saw. These are wages that most people in the country can only dream of. Instead, it is an internal union power game that has clear consequences for Swedish jobs and companies as well as for the Swedish economy and growth. I don't live in Gothenburg, I live in Värmland. We see clear consequences for the business community in Värmland as well. A number of companies have reported increased problems with getting and being able to ship goods and other goods on time. This leads to transhipments and increased costs. An individual company may incur costs in the multi-million-dollar class, only because adult people in the trade unions in the Port of Gothenburg cannot agree. If you take part of the Mediation Institute's mediation efforts, you can see that some people in some places obviously have no interest in getting along either. The question is what the government does. In a situation of lock-ups such as these, politics must get in somewhere. There is an old song that tells us that the state and capital are in the same boat. One could say that the government and LO in many situations are in the same boat. It should therefore be possible to join forces and move forward in order to deliver a sustainable policy that removes the risk of goods going to Gothenburg instead being moved to another port in Europe. It must be ensured that companies in both Värmland and the rest of Sweden are not affected by the fact that they do not receive their goods due to ongoing conflict. It must be ensured that transport on waterways can arrive. As I said, this leads to an economic loss for the country, and it affects our jobs and businesses. But it is also an environmental disaster in many cases with transhipments, increased pressure on lorries on the roads and a great increase in pressure on the railways, which are already often overloaded. What do the government and the minister do specifically to resolve the conflict? The government has the power to do something, and there is an opposition in the Swedish parliament that is more than willing to be constructive and proactive and take responsibility for ensuring the security of Swedish jobs and entrepreneurs and Swedish growth and welfare. What are the Minister's answers to this?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-145	Mr President, I would like to It is welcome that Lars Hjälmered has made a number of interpellations to various ministers about the port problems in Gothenburg. The issue is wider than that of an individual minister, and it is important for the competitiveness of Sweden as a whole. Social Democrats, Moderates and Center Partyists have all agreed for quite a long time that there is a great potential for development in the Port of Gothenburg. There has even been talk of fairway depression in order to allow even larger international vessels. Now the government's handshake is in danger of destroying it. Mr President, I would like to I am here because I want to highlight a perspective on something that is not on the table of Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, the environmental issue. Sweden and the world at large depend on efficient and climate-friendly shipping. Taking into account that nearly 90% of all world goods have been transported over water, it is recognised that shipping plays an important role in the world economy and in global value chains. An emission of 1% less from each ship would be significant, because the number of ships is so overwhelmingly large. It is therefore fortunate that shipping is such a cheap mode of transport. In addition, shipping is by far the best and most energy efficient in carrying large volumes of goods. It is no wonder that the Environmental Objectives Committee mentions the transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping as a central prerequisite for Sweden to reach the climate targets set for 2045. Mr President, I would like to This is impossible on a large scale when the port of Gothenburg is now in free fall. More than a quarter of the volumes are gone according to the port's own quarterly report, and much of the goods have moved to trucks. The credibility problem for the Port of Gothenburg becomes an environmental issue for the whole of Sweden. It is no wonder that this is the case. The goods must be delivered. Companies are forced to take other roads than the one through the Port of Gothenburg. Otherwise, there's an empty gap on the shelves when ordinary people, ordinary families, are going to do what they need. Mr President, I would like to Every day, carbon dioxide emissions as a result of the conflict increase by about 124 tonnes. It is possible to compare with around 500 buses to drive between Stockholm and Gothenburg every day, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's own figures. It is about a sevenfold increase in the emissions that occur when there is not such a conflict. If we look at an interesting date, May 31 next year, it's a little over 175 days there. If we count 124 tons a day, it is about 22 000 tons only until the investigation is completed in emissions that we could have avoided. Is that really reasonable, Ylva Johansson?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-152	Mr President, I would like to It can be said that the government has streamlined the management of the four interpellations that Lars Helmered has made. Instead, it could have rationalised the investigation to be presented in May 2018 and instead made a sharp legislative proposal. The hand has been stretched out from the Moderate side. It should be received by anyone who cares about Swedish industry and shipping. The government usually says that shipping is very important both as a industry and as a mode of transport. It has made some changes together with the Alliance, such as the introduction of the tonnage tax and the presentation of the maritime strategy, which was developed during the alliance period. It is quite wrong that these good intentions to strengthen shipping are being overturned by the lack of other legislation. A lot has already been said about how Port four uses mafia methods. For decades, threats of strike and blockade have been used to get their conditions passed. Instead, one should consider how damaging it is to Swedish exports and how irreversible these processes are. When customers leave the port of Gothenburg, they will not return. Now that ACL closes its direct line to the United States, the line will instead go via Antwerp. Who can guarantee that the goods will take by sea from Antwerp to Sweden? Can Ylva Johansson guarantee that? What is it that says that the extra element that costs money, such as unloading and loading, will not be rationalised away and that instead you just load trucks and bring in goods via Germany and Denmark over the Öresund Bridge to Sweden? What will be the cost of environmental destruction? There are so many aspects to this issue that it should not just be reduced to a labour market conflict. I would have liked all the other ministers concerned by Lars Hjälmered's interpellations to have been in this House and to have answered these questions on the basis of their respective areas of work. Like everyone else, I wonder whether Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson is prepared to act quickly and not wait until after the elections.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-157	Mr President, I would like to This is such an important issue that it should be concentrated on the Prime Minister, because it applies to the whole country. As a Gothenburger, I see the conflict developing every day. It is important for Gothenburg and Gothenburg to develop as a heart, brain and driving force in West Sweden and throughout Sweden that the port of Gothenburg can remain and develop into what it can become. But it is not just, as many colleagues have said, a matter for Gothenburg. There is also a regional perspective. At least 20 000 people depend on their livelihood from activities in the port of Gothenburg in terms of the port directly or logistics work around the area. This applies not least to Landvetter Airport. There is a well-established cooperation between the port and Landvetter airport, which can complement each other for the freight law, for the business community and to develop the welfare of the country. It is therefore extremely important that the conflict be resolved. The Minister says in his answer:"The State also has a responsibility to ensure an effective regulatory framework with long-term sustainable and clear rules of the game that enable the parties to continue to take responsibility for regulating the conditions of the Swedish labour market. - Yes, exactly. That is why it is so important to get an effective regulatory framework that the government is now developing the necessary proposals. We risk throwing the baby out with the bathwater with this waiting. We know that there are good proposals. Bring them out and let's test them! Don't let it get pulled on a long bench! Several colleagues have explained how important the port of Gothenburg is to the environment and how important it is that we get climate-smart ways for the goods to travel. The climate work in the Port of Gothenburg is world-class. When a ship enters the port, there is a number that checks if it meets the emission requirements that apply to enter the port of Gothenburg. If it doesn't, the harbor master will call up the ship and say, "Hello! Turn it on to make you more environmentally friendly! Every ship has the opportunity to drain black water with electricity – something that does not exist in many ports in the world, Mr President. It is therefore extremely important that the port of Gothenburg continues to receive both large and small ships. But what is happening now is that boats are being spread out in Sweden, feeder boats and others, who do not have any perspective that is good from an environmental point of view. This is extremely important for the whole of Sweden, not least for jobs. Therefore, I have to ask the Minister for Labour: How many jobs should be lost before the government holds back its trade union interests and does not put them in front of the whole country Sweden's interest?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-164	Mr President, I would like to There are obviously some rhetorical overtones in the debate. However, I choose not to reply to them, because the questions that Lars Helmered and Jessika Roswall have put to me are serious and important questions, and I am sure they both have a willingness to resolve them constructively. The situation in the port is extremely serious. There is no ongoing conflict; it has not been the last six months. But the anxiety remains. This means that you have not been able to take back what you have lost, and you have just received another negative message. The consequences are far-reaching for the port, of course, for Gothenburg and West Sweden, but also for a wide range of large companies and therefore a wide range of small businesses that depend on the larger companies. So there are very serious consequences of this. Of course, I'm meeting with representatives of the port. I've done that several times, last time maybe two weeks ago. I meet representatives of big business in particular, who have come and explained the situation. Of course, I meet representatives of the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce and the City of Gothenburg. We have also had the opportunity to meet together with the investigator who is now investigating the legislative changes that are probably necessary to overcome some of the element 22 that the current legislation allows for in the conflict situation despite an existing collective agreement when the employer is bound by it. I have no interest whatsoever in drawing this on a long bench. On the contrary, I want it to be done as quickly as possible to resolve the issue. We really should have found out how we can get the issue to a solution in the most quick way and also get the legislation that I think will be necessary. We need to get this right in legislation that the parties can reasonably ask the parliament and the government to provide for them to do their job well. To take this into account and get an investigation that can work quickly, we have ensured that you work very closely with the parties, who of course have important input in this. We have ensured this by means of a special structure in which these views are included. Then there is always a balance: how long will it take to come up with a sufficiently substantiated proposal? The type of legislation likely to affect or affect EU law. It will affect, touch or be close to the European Social Charter. It will probably need to relate to ILO Convention 87 and ILO Convention 98. I am sure this can be handled. However, I also believe that the Swedish Law Council will one day decide whether it has a sufficiently well-defined relationship with the international conventions that Sweden is bound by when it submits legislative proposals that are close to this. This is, of course, an issue that needs to be taken into account. If a legislative proposal is presented too quickly and is not sufficiently well investigated, the danger is that you will have a setback in the Law Council and have to start over from scratch, and that is none of us serving. Where exactly is that balance? No one knows for sure. We believe that we have made a reasonable balance in the time of the investigation, but if it were possible to arrive even faster, it is of course nothing that I would mind. I received an invitation via a debate article that the Moderates want to cooperate and find a solution as soon as possible on the matter. I have therefore invited the Moderates to a meeting next week. The invitation went out on Friday. I hope that together we can sit down and, together with the investigator, review the conditions and discuss how the issue can be taken forward.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-173	Mr President, I would like to The port of Gothenburg is by far the largest port in Sweden. It is crucial for the Swedish business community. You see it as Gothenburgers and when you visit Gothenburg and see the ships that go in and out and the stacks of containers. The port is really the pulse in the Swedish economy and for imports and exports. Sweden is dependent on trade; about half of our economy is linked to Sweden trading with other countries. This type of logistical flow is crucial for it to work for companies and ultimately for it to work in a good way for many companies around the country, usually far away from Gothenburg. The port of Gothenburg is really the entire port of Sweden with rail commuters and other transport types available. We now have conflicts and threats of conflict that have been absolutely devastating. This has had an impact on a number of shipping companies that have decided to close down the important direct lines. The last time it was about ACL, which, frankly, is sad. There are also long-term effects, for example when industrial companies consider where to put the production of a car model or another production unit. We have large Swedish fine industrial companies that have not only important production in Sweden but also production in other countries. When you sit with different types of investment decisions and production planning you reasonably look at such things as transport costs and whether you can trust the transport system. That is why I think it is important for us as political decision-makers to take this issue seriously, and I am therefore grateful that we can have this important discussion with the Minister on how to deal constructively with it. Beyond the current situation with a boom but also some social problems with integration, security and other things, I would like to say that we have an important issue in the long term, which is about Swedish competitiveness. It is not new to trade with other countries, but the new is that competition is intensifying. Indians, Chinese and others are as creative, innovative and tough as Swedes. We cannot take anything for granted with the big Swedish companies. Then we must get down to the core of competitiveness, which is about skills provision, tax conditions and also such a thing as what we are talking about today, i.e. reliable and sustainable transport and reasonable costs where it can be tough on and roll in a reasonable and good way. This brings us to the heart of the conflict in the port problems of collective agreements and conflict law. This needs to be investigated, and I believe that it needs to be investigated urgently on the basis of a strong political will to be able to resolve this. I do not doubt the Minister's intentions, and I hope the Minister does not doubt our intentions either. When we have gone out in a major debate article in Today's industry, it is a genuine intention of the Moderates to reach out a hand and be able to help solve this important social problem. I believe that companies in Sweden, large and small, should be able to rely on the Port of Gothenburg to function. I hope that there is a broad will to sit down for real and discuss this and see if we can find a solution. I would like to see a legislative proposal made in the spring; that must be the ambition of this. Before it is time for next year's elections, Parliament should have the opportunity to make decisions so that we can resolve this. Mr President, I would like to If we succeed in this politically, then the next major challenge will be: to take on the MSV, Maersk and ACL companies, and in different ways from trade unions and employers, but also politically to see how we can regain confidence in the important direct movements so that we strengthen competitiveness even after this kind of port problem. It does not end with this.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-182	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment, for a serious answer! I fully share the view that this is a serious issue, and many serious issues, which require serious discussion and debate. I am definitely a promoter of proper investigations that also take into account various international conventions and EU law. I realise that a great deal of balance is required, but it also happens all the time, and in this case I find it a little difficult to understand why it takes so much time. It took time before the investigation was set up – we Moderates had been demanding for several months that the government act. Recently, the Mediation Institute in the Labour Market Committee was responsible for, among other things, reporting on its work in this conflict. I've also read their report. Actually, it's not a funny reading. It is clear that the right to strike is being abused here. The Mediation Institute itself writes that they have to spend a lot of time just investigating what the Port Workers' Union actually requires. We can't have that; we need to stop it. Several times we return in this debate – or at least a few times in the reply from the Minister for Labour – to the fact that the right to strike is constitutionally protected. Reference is made to EU law. Yes, that is the case, but already today there are restrictions, and the mission that has been issued does not impose any major restrictions – that is what I was trying to say in my first speech – without trying to find solutions. I think it is important to find quick solutions to something that obviously does not work. Lars Hjälmered said here in his second speech that the mistrust that exists against the port of Gothenburg is serious and that the rumour that it is a port of conflict must be refuted. It is also clear, according to the Mediation Institute's report, that the threats of legislation that have been put forward in no way affect the Port Workers' Union. That is why I believe that we urgently need to come up with a proposal. I think it is good that the Minister also realises that this concern about threats persists. This indicates even more that we are in a hurry to find a solution.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-189	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday a large part of Swedish shipping gathered on Donsö. This small island in the Gothenburg archipelago brings together eight shipping companies, family businesses, and yesterday the social partners were involved. It was celebrated that six newly produced vessels are now being flagged into the Swedish merchant fleet. At the same time, we see that ACL leaves the port of Gothenburg and thus also does not flag its newly built ships. So when there is good development on one side, bad development is going on on the other side. This is troubling. I am a little surprised that the Minister seems to be more concerned about formula than about reality. It's okay now during the investigation period. Yeah, it's not weird. Those who fight want to be calm during the investigation period so that there will not be an overly sharp law that can push the feet of certain parties and the actions of these parties. It is a question of interfering with essential social functions. I do not want to say that this is dangerous to society, but it is disturbing of essential social functions when Sweden's largest port does not work. It's sabotage. It is not a labour market conflict. I would argue that if the Swedish model is protected, the conditions should be removed in order for any party to be able to abuse it. This is what the issue is about. The Minister says that these are rhetorical overtones on the issues, and I would ask to repeat my questions without rhetorical overtones. Is the Minister ready to give additional directives in view of what is happening during the course of the investigation? And does the Minister still see the Port Four as just a trade union organization?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-193	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for your post that I think breathed constructiveness and seriosity. I think that's a good thing, because that's what we mean from our side too. On this issue too, we want to take joint responsibility for resolving a far too long-term conflict, and although there is no conflict at present, it is still a challenge because the port does not function fully, that shipping companies choose to go to other ports and that, as Lars Helmered said, the transatlantic transport is moved and disappears from Sweden. We think this has taken too long, as Mrs Roswall explained. This is basically not about the port of Gothenburg's dock workers, because the port workers are also people who are punished by this. Even their jobs are at risk. It seems that at least one of the trade unions does not have the best interests of its members, the work situation of its members and the wages of its members, but rather the future of its own association, woefully and well in mind. This is a serious matter, and that is why we want to act on this issue. We want to act here, now and quickly to protect the jobs in Värmland as well as the rest of Sweden and the jobs for the dock workers in the port of Gothenburg.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-196	Mr President, I would like to We in Sweden, like the rest of the world, depend on efficient and climate-friendly shipping, which is by far the best way to transport large quantities of goods in a resource- and energy-efficient way. The government itself is behind the Environmental Objectives Committee's conclusions, which say that we need to move transport from road to rail and to shipping. But every day that the port conflict in Gothenburg is allowed to continue, this is set aside. It is a conflict that would not have had to get this large proportions but which now threatens Swedish competitiveness significantly. Carbon dioxide emissions from this movement from ships to lorries amount to about 124 tonnes a day. If you continue at this level and there is no ups or downs, it is 22 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide only until the investigation is completed. Enough because confidence in the harbour of Gothenburg is ruined, but the government needs to take the blade from its mouth before the confidence is completely exhausted. Otherwise, the only follow-up question will be whether the industry will dare to invest anything in Sweden at all.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-199	Mr President, Madam Minister. Sweden was once a maritime nation and has all the conditions to become so again. But shipping requires ports, well-functioning ports, where customers get quick service and where companies can rely on their goods to leave the port on time. Shipping is an international industry, and competition is fierce. The market shares that Sweden does not take anyone else, and it is not possible to reverse the trend. As far as shipping is concerned, there is optimism and confidence in the future, which means that shipping companies will once again dare to flag Swedish. Yesterday, at the Donsö event that my colleague Mrs Rothenberg mentioned, Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth said this: now it turns around. Now the Swedish merchant fleet is growing again. It is an incredibly important signal act and also important for Swedish growth and increased competitiveness. I hope that the government wishes to acknowledge this optimism and will make urgent proposals to ban strikes when collective agreements exist. I very much hope that the Minister is prepared to promote Swedish growth and increased competitiveness.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-203	Mr President, I would like to My colleagues have well-known the broad spectrum of what the conflict in the Port of Gothenburg means for the workforce, for large and small companies, for the environment and for industrial production – for virtually all parts of Sweden. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Labour how this affects the work of the government. This is still a lengthy investigation, and the time will run out before a proposal is ready if we do nothing. I guess it's affecting the government's work. The government is currently working on the national infrastructure plan. There are important areas in it, which should also affect the Port of Gothenburg. Fairway deepening is an extremely important infrastructure investment for us to be able to bring in the largest boats. However, the Ministry of Industry is also looking at a good strategy, which will also include a new strategy for ports and goods. How will the government be able to work on these issues when uncertainty in the Port of Gothenburg exists? Is it not time to put an end to this as soon as possible, so that confidence in the port of Gothenburg but ultimately in the Swedish Government and its capacity for action can be regained?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-207	Mr President, I would like to I said it in my last speech, and I say it again: I want to get a new bill as soon as possible. We have nothing to gain by delaying; it can only lead to losses. We want to get a bill as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to It is unfortunate to describe the necessary legal preparation, which takes account of both international conventions and constitutions, as a kind of malicious delay. It is a necessary preparation process. One can always have a discussion about how quickly it is possible to carry out that processing process, but I think we agree that it must be carried out. The fact that a bill is urgent does not relieve the government of any obligation to prepare. It also does not deprive the Law Council of the necessary scrutiny, as the opposition could see recently. The Parliament requested a legislative proposal to correct the obvious errors in the old legislation on labour immigration, which would lead to unreasonable consequences. The Parliament initiated a bill that was rejected by the Law Council, and you have to start over because you did not wait for an investigation. We should take into account the fact that if a legislative proposal is drawn up that is not well-prepared, it risks taking even longer because it is not possible to implement it. That is the balance to be struck. Mr President, I would like to I think I've answered those questions. As I said, I've invited the Moderates to a meeting with me and the investigator next week. I hope they will accept that invitation. Then we will have to continue the discussion and see if we can move forward constructively as soon as possible.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-211	Mr President, I would like to It has been said before, and it can be said again: The port of Gothenburg is by far the largest port in Sweden and absolutely crucial for Swedish business and the Swedish economy. It is somehow the essence of the importance of discussing this and of what it means for industry, trade and other important companies. The Government of Johansson spoke about some of the meetings, visits and contacts she has had. I, too, have had meetings with various representatives of individual companies – large ones and smaller ones in industry and commerce – various organisations – such as the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce – the City of Gothenburg, the port company and many more. After all those contacts, I do at least two continuous reflections. One is that everyone is genuinely concerned about the situation in the port of Gothenburg. It sees the effects in the short term, but also in the long term and hopes to be able to resolve this. The second is that there is a struggle or will to do something about it in the long run. Beyond the port problems are, for example, long-term ambitions for the port of Gothenburg, with a fairway deepening and ideas for strengthening the logistics cluster in western Sweden. It is supported quite widely by individual companies, entrepreneurs' organisations and trade unions. There is a will to do something good. I hope that can be taken on board. But the bottom line is that one must be able to solve the port problems before that. For me, this is a question where red and blue should be able to find each other. Of course, the Moderates will accept the invitation. It is so serious that we have to sit down and reason to see if we can solve this. We should all be able to agree that it needs to be resolved, because it is important for Swedish business and jobs in the future. We go in with good intent and a will to resolve this.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-217	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for a constructive debate. I am certainly still critical of the government's handling of the issue. It's been too slow. There must be a willingness and ambition of the government to act more quickly, because we see what effects the conflict has had – as has been said not only for Gothenburg, but for the whole of Sweden with withdrawn shipping lines and increased environmental emissions. But the will seems to be with the government, and that's a good thing. It is sad that we have not received any more comments from the Minister for Labour about the abuse of the right to strike here. Except that the investigation has been given too long– I have not claimed that it is delayed in any way– the investigation will then be dealt with by the Government, the Law Council and then the Riksdag. So we are talking about a further two years. That is not acceptable. It affects the Swedish economy. Then it is particularly good to hear that you want to try to find a faster solution. The problems in the port of Gothenburg need to be brought to an end, and the means available have been tried without success. I am glad that I can at least feel a little more hopeful after today's debate than I did when I came here.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-221	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry to repeat myself. The situation in the port of Gothenburg is very serious. The consequences for Swedish industry, for Swedish growth and for jobs are far-reaching and very serious. It is therefore extremely important that a solution can be found. This is not an ongoing conflict, but it is a continuing concern that is seriously affecting the port and businesses. The only ones who can solve the current situation are the parties. But the government has a responsibility to ensure that we have effective legislation. My assessment is that we do not have adequate legislation today. That is why I have set up an investigation, and I want the investigation to come up with proposals for appropriate legislation that will be possible to implement as soon as possible.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-223	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Coenraads has asked me whether I intend to submit a bill on a new animal welfare law to Parliament before the end of the parliamentary term and if so, when. Thank you for the concise question, Åsa Coenraads! Perhaps this should be a brief and concise debate as well. The answer to the question is simply: Yes. In the bill list, the Government announced its intention to submit a proposal in January 2018. Intensive work is now under way to put in place all the pieces required for a well-thought-out proposal for a new animal welfare law. I am pleased that there is a great deal of interest and commitment to the issue of a new animal welfare law here in Parliament and with the Moderates. I very much look forward to soon having the chance to debate this important issue in Parliament again and then to debate the very content of the proposal for the new law.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-226	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer and thank you for an answer on time! Several of the Minister's colleagues have a response period of several months, which is not completely okay. I wrote this interpellation a few weeks ago after attending a conference where several organisations from animal husbandry, animal welfare and consumer organisations participated. At the conference, the topic of discussion was the forthcoming animal welfare bill and what it would contain, i.e. the same subject that has been touched on so many times before at similar conferences and often with a great dissatisfaction that it was promised earlier but then withdrawn from the bill list. Both the minister responsible and his partner have had a very high tone in the debate, both during the last parliamentary term and at the beginning of this, about how easy it would be to present a new bill to the Riksdag and how much would be included in the new bill. Therefore, both expectations and fears are high among the organisations affected by the forthcoming decision. Modern animal welfare legislation adapted to modern times is needed, and it is good if the government puts such a bill on the table in accordance with the food strategy's ambitions that Sweden can produce more and smarter than today. Today I meet animal keepers who want to rebuild or make additions and young future farmers who do not dare to invest in new stables because nobody knows what rules might apply after decisions in this House, or whether there will be any decision at all. Every spring the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture debates the issue in this House. For three years the debate has been very thin on the grounds that there will be a bill soon. If what the Minister is now saying is true, I also hope for a more concrete and fuller discussion on this very important issue later this spring. I hope that the bill contains text on the proposals that Parliament has made known to the Government, and I am thinking mainly of the work that needs to be done at European level. To ensure that our neighbours within the European Union raise their level of ambition to the common minimum level of decision-making should be a matter of course, but we are far from it. In many countries the exceptions are used as a rule without any ambition for improvement. My supplementary question to the Minister is therefore: what tools does the Minister intend to use to increase Swedish competitiveness in animal welfare work?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-234	Mr President, I would like to The government is planning for a new updated and modern animal welfare law. We're building our proposal on the Animal Protection Investigation. In fact, preparing a completely new animal welfare law has taken longer than we originally thought it would take. The investigation was very extensive, and there were many referrals. A large number of comments were received on the investigation's proposals. It has, of course, taken time to analyse all the points of view and to deal seriously with all the referrals. It's been important to the government. We have also had to supplement the investigation's proposals in certain respects, including the rules on confidentiality. It's taken time, too. In order for it to be a good proposal, it was necessary for it to take that time. Another reason why it has taken time is that this is a very complex issue. The Alliance government set up the investigation. It had three years to implement the proposals, but the alliance government only implemented one proposal. The rest was put in the drawer. Now we have picked up the thread, and we are now on the riot route. I think it can be a really good proposal that is well thought out and where many people have been able to speak. I hope that we can have broad support and that there can be a good debate on the proposal in the spring.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-239	Mr President, I would like to Sweden must have high, good and effective animal welfare legislation. We have agreed on this for a long time in Parliament. However, given the high tone of the debate from the current government coalition, I have a slight concern that this consensus is coming to an end. What the future bill will look like only knows the responsible minister, but I certainly do not hope that he will allow the government's cooperation party to have too much influence on this very important issue. I do not hope that the government will propose levels for Swedish animal welfare that are far above today's level or that do not fulfil a proper purpose. Animal welfare issues must be created for the welfare of animals and not for the image of many of a romanticized countryside found in fairy tales and cartoons. We in Sweden are good at combining rules and laws with an ethical view of animal husbandry that leads to healthy and healthy animals, and we will continue to do so but in a responsible way. Being a farmer with animal responsibility is not easy today. I have never met a farmer who deliberately wanted to harm his animals, rather they are doing everything in their power to ensure that the animals are as good as possible. But the reality is sometimes reminded and it is not always easy to get the calculations together with pressured prices and a regulatory framework that is like a thicket forest. We therefore want the degree of detail to be reduced rather than increased. It is therefore very good that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has come up with new regulations in the autumn and that they are not taken in this Chamber. Decisions should be made where they belong. My question to the Minister was what tools he intends to use to increase Swedish competitiveness in the food industry. In fact, I think the Minister still owes me the answer.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-246	Mr President, I would like to Our ambition is that Sweden should continue to be a pioneer country in terms of animal health, animal welfare and animal welfare. It is essential for the sake of animals, but it is also essential for society as a whole. Good animal husbandry with healthy and healthy animals where antibiotics are used only when the animals are ill is extremely important. This is not the case in all countries. It is of fundamental importance that we deal with this wisely. It is important for public health and for us to maintain modern health care. Antibiotic resistance is a global threat to health, to the economy, to food security and to poverty reduction. In parallel with the new law, the Government has decided on several measures to strengthen animal welfare. Among other things, we have invested more resources in animal welfare control. This year's budget proposal proposes, among other things, an entirely new reinforcement of SEK 15 million per year to the county administrative boards. An equal effort is made on 3R issues. It also has a budget of SEK 15 million. Another important focus is to raise animal welfare in the EU. For some time now, we have been working with Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium to raise animal welfare also at European level. This cooperation has resulted, among other things, in a declaration of welfare for pigs and in recommendations for keeping pullets. It has also resulted in the establishment of an EU Animal Welfare Platform. In January this year, the Commission decided to set up an animal welfare platform, and this work has now begun. First of all, priority will be given to animal transport and pig production. These are issues that Sweden has put forward as particularly important. In order to achieve success in the European arena, we need to work together and seek partners with other countries to create momentum in that work. In order to make this possible also at national level, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has set up a national network for animal welfare. All this and a lot of other work is going on in parallel with the work on the bill.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-253	Mr President, I would like to The profitability of Swedish agriculture and livestock production must be increased. We have debated and decided on this in the food strategy developed by the government. We look a little differently at how this should be done, but we fully agree that production in Sweden must increase. We must have smarter production to increase the scale and competitiveness of the European market. In the long run, a future animal welfare bill must go hand in hand with this and not hamper the production we have in Sweden. Sweden today has one of the best animal welfare in the world, and I hope that we will have it in the future too. However, it is important to have a realistic picture of what animal welfare means, not the romanticized fantasy that many on the left have unfortunately shown. I thank the Minister for the debate. It is an important issue, and I believe that the Minister and I agree that we should continue to have good animal production in Sweden. I look forward to spring and continued dialogue rather than debate so that together we can work out something that is good for Sweden. Sweden has also shown that good animal welfare provides a low level of antibiotics in our animals. Healthy and strong animals are a sign of good animal welfare.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-257	Mr President, I would like to On 20 June this year, Parliament decided on the national food strategy, so now there are long-term food chain targets that are set until 2030. The government is very pleased about this and that we were also able to take decisions on the overall objectives and strategic areas in great political harmony. The implementation of the national food strategy is under way. We have already presented 35 measures in a food strategy action plan. I have also appointed a national council where representatives of civil society, industry and academia are gathered. It is also important that we continue the dialogue and anchor our work in Sweden and that the authorities work to achieve the goals of the strategy. We also have a lot of activities with regional food strategies. The government is also very pleased that this work is under way. The government has so far presented four package of measures to strengthen sustainability and competitiveness throughout the food chain. In total, the government has allocated more than 1 billion to the implementation of the food strategy. The package of measures has presented several tasks with a focus on animal welfare, including knowledge development for cost-effective building in livestock production, advice models in livestock production, scientific advice on animal welfare issues and studies and experimental activities that can help develop competitive animal husbandry while maintaining animal welfare. This isn't romance. These are very concrete measures in everyday life that make us improve competitiveness and ensure animal welfare and animal health in our country, which is good for the whole food chain. Thank you for the debate.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-263	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to compensate for the increased pressure that might arise when several of the private health insurance policies disappear and more people instead have to go to public health services, which are already under great pressure today. Unlike most other benefits, private health care benefits are tax-free for the employee while the employer is not allowed to deduct the cost of care. This also applies when the employer pays for private health insurance. The rules mean that private health insurance is subsidised by taxpayers who do not have such benefits from their employer. The Government and the Left Party, as Lotta Finstorp touches upon, have agreed that the benefit of private health care should be taxed. Some private health insurance policies have elements of rehabilitation measures that will not be subject to preferential taxation. The new rules are intended to enter into force on 1 July 2018. The proposal has been referred, and the period of referral expired on 24 November 2017. The objective of health care is good health and equal treatment for the entire population. The person most in need of health care should be given priority to health care. The Swedish Parliament has supported the ethical platform for prioritization decisions, which aims to strengthen and deepen the objectives of the Health Act. The importance of private health insurance in relation to the common health system has to a very limited extent been the subject of in-depth analysis or research. The impact and impact of private health insurance on the common health system is an issue that is being discussed in many countries. According to an OECD report, private health insurance tends to generate an increased overall demand for care rather than a relief of public health care. The effect may be more visits to specialist doctors or an increase in drug consumption. The OECD concludes that private health insurance schemes provide more resources and improve access for insured persons, but do not lead to shorter queues for those without insurance. In view of this, I would like to insist that there is no evidence today that private health insurance should relieve the county-funded care. It is also worth noting that the government is making historically large investments in our joint tax-funded health care. I intend, of course, to follow developments in this area.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-273	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It is interesting when you start digging a little deeper into this issue. The number of people with health insurance has increased radically over the last ten years. Today, 638 000 people have health insurance, and 429 000 insurances are paid by the employer. There may be different reasons for private individuals to buy health insurance. Svensk Försäkring has made a clear model of how publicly funded care and health insurances complement each other. Many companies are very critical of the proposal and believe that taxation will lead employers to refrain from taking out insurance and that employees will want to waive insurance cover, and that is why I have made this intervention. This, in turn, risks leading to increased sick leave and increased burden on public health care. Let me return to the Minister's answer. I have some supplementary questions. Among other things, the Minister said that some private health insurance policies have elements of rehabilitation measures that will not be subject to preferential taxation. How is this limit to be drawn? What is rehabilitation measure in relation to actual health care or prevention? When I have read the referee and tried to understand this question, I have seen that many companies take out this kind of insurance for their employees and use them to prevent people from going into health insurance. Furthermore, the Minister said in his reply that the OECD writes in a report that the effect could be more visits to specialist doctors. Are we overconsumption of healthcare in Sweden today? The Minister also said that there is currently no evidence to support private health insurance to relieve the county council-funded care. How is that analysis done? Is the calculation made for returning to work? There must be a dark figure for those who do not have to enter county-funded care and because of preventive measures in insurance do not need to be taken on sick leave. These are my supplementary questions to the Minister's reply. The question then arises as to how this proposal relates to the government's objective of reduced absenteeism. To me, it sounds counterproductive. What is the government's analysis of this? I know that the Minister has a programme for reducing sick leave and sick leave. After all, private health insurance must be an important part of people not having to get into ordinary health insurance, because these insurance policies work very preventively and very much with rehabilitation. The question must also be asked why these insurance policies are increasing so radically. This must of course be because the county-funded health care system does not support return to work in a good way and that entrepreneurs therefore take out these insurance policies for their employees.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-284	Madam President, I would like There is much to be said about the tax exemption for these insurance policies. But I have to be honest and say that I do not see this as the biggest issue in terms of the challenges of health care. I have followed the increase in private health insurance quite closely. It was a bit of a snowball effect when this started. What then happened was that all the larger workplaces drew this for all their employees. For many employers it has been a competitive advantage to offer this kind of insurance to employees, for example. They have been signed for competitive reasons. I also noted for some time that a great many trade unions signed this kind of insurance, actually as a competitive advantage over other trade unions when they competed for members. I am not entirely sure that it is always the need or lack of access to county-funded care that has pushed this escalation. It must not be forgotten that it is a bit odd that, precisely in the case of these private health insurance policies, there is a special tax exemption and a special rule on this. I can really question that. I would also like to think that abolishing this tax exemption means that the tax system is becoming more uniform and neutral. I've taken the opportunity to get into this a little bit. I do not think it is normally the ordinary municipal authority that has a private health insurance. In fact, almost two thirds of insured persons are men. Just as you say, Lotta Finstorp, over 60 percent of these insurance policies are paid by employers. The average age is close to that of the workforce as a whole, about 45 years old. Among those who have this kind of insurance there is a strong over-representation of people living in Stockholm County and Västra Götaland County. A much larger proportion are university graduates in this group. On average, they have significantly higher incomes than the rest of the labour force. In particular, they are in the higher part of the distribution of income. The average income earned by private health insurance companies is SEK 533 000 a year. I am not sure that it is this particular group for which other taxpayers should subsidise private health insurance. I am also not sure that these private health insurances are being used for the kind of care that is most necessary. For example, we know that surgery of myopia is part of these insurance solutions. I am not sure that other taxpayers will stand for it, if I am to be honest.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-289	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for her speech. I think she's taken note of Mårten Palme's analysis. I know the numbers. This is very interesting. Two years ago, SVT, or if it was Swedish Radio, carried out a study on the massive increase in health insurance. It also emerged that many municipalities take out such insurance for the entire employee collective, for example because they are not able to bring in substitutes. You need to get people to come back faster. The return to work is taking too long today, according to many employers. Surely this must be an important contribution to achieving the sickness rate that the government has set up. In what the minister has presented to reach the sickness rate in nine days, there is a sandwich table of various things. This must surely be a good part, because people can get help and it is used very much for prevention, which I have found out through discussions and dialogue with Svensk Försäkring. It should relieve the state-funded health care system, especially in the areas of prevention. This is much used for CBT therapy, for example, when people feel that they have a stress-related illness and need help with structuring life. This is made possible by the employer having taken out this insurance. Employer-paid care is not a sour cream for high income recipients. In the case of municipalities, insurance is rarely taken out for a particular occupational category or unit. Instead, it will be for all employees. It is also a myth that you sit in separate waiting rooms in the same hospital, so that those who are county council-funded and are going to operate the hip are in one waiting room and those who have private health insurance are in another. It is very clearly regulated how that is done. I've read Saco's referrals. Then I'm sure we'll talk about those who are in the upper line of pay. Saco writes:- This is not just an insurance policy for high-income earners because many companies take out insurance for all their employees. As referred to by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, this can apply, for example, to a miner from Kiruna, a dairy farmer from Dalarna or a cleaning lady from Stockholm. It is said by a person who has a specialist clinic and talks about the people with health insurance who come there. I think it is important to at least have the same basis. Mårten Palme's analysis is very clear with which categories of people are covered by this kind of health insurance. If preferential taxation becomes a reality, I feel a concern about how county councils will manage to accept those people who today have this insurance. The queues are still huge. There is no light in that tunnel at all, at least not in the county council in the part of the country from which I come, namely Sörmland. In addition, if all these people are to benefit from the county-funded healthcare system when they become poor, there will be enormous additional pressure on health care.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-295	Madam President, I would like We still have to ask ourselves whether it is precisely these insurance policies that should have a special rule of tax exemption. Do we meet most correctly when we use tax revenue in this way? Seen to which group Mårten Palme's report shows that this includes, I find it very difficult to consider it. I am also well aware that there are individual municipalities or municipal companies that have taken out such insurance for their employees, but these insurance policies are over-represented in workplaces with a maximum of 30 employees. As I said, it is not insignificant to use these insurance policies, for example, as a recruitment argument when competing for labour. I'm not sure that's the best way to use our resources. Then I also think it is important to say that rehabilitation and preventive treatment are not covered by the proposal. Such benefits will still be tax-free. These are rehabilitation and preventive measures which are work-oriented and which are either the responsibility of the employer or which the employer still undertakes in the individual case. This may involve an employee who has an increased risk of illness, such as pathological obesity, but rehabilitation measures will also continue to be covered. I'm not sure you should use tax money to get people to do eye surgery. Moreover, according to the OECD report, it cannot be concluded that this means shorter queues for those who are without insurance – it may rather mean displacement effects, and we do not want to see them. After all, we have a very basic vision in this country: anyone who has the greatest needs should have access to healthcare. I think this is very important. In the group that is primarily covered by these insurance policies, I do not think that anyone's access to care will fall into this, nor any employer. I honestly do not think that this is one of the major issues. I understand that, in substance, there are different points of view on this and that there are reports pointing in a slightly different direction. However, I do not think that this is the most important issue to prioritise or debate. If you look at where in the country these insurances occur to a large extent, you can also see that it is in Stockholm and Västra Götaland County. It's not in the interior of Norrland. At the same time, I hope that Lotta Finstorp knows that I am definitely open to various measures that lead to people being supported in getting back to work as quickly as possible. But I find it hard to see why the private health insurance should have an exception vis-à-vis us.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-302	Madam President, I would like When there is such a proposal, I think it is important that we try to get to the bottom of it in a good way, as I think we have done in this debate. My honest concern is about how county councils will do this given the enormous mission they have today and the unacceptable queues for care and treatment. That is, to be perfectly honest, why employers take out these insurance policies: in order to get their workforce back quickly. Hopefully, it is also a question of preventing more people from entering public health insurance, getting sick leave for a long time and having to wait for care and treatment. Little wonder, then, that more and more people are taking out these insurance policies. What I'm wondering is the limit. I see and I hear from the Minister that certain parts should be excluded. The proposal therefore risks creating problems with the distinction between health insurance, occupational health care, prevention and rehabilitation. This will ultimately affect the employees, and it will be very strange. I believe that in some way you will have a problem with borders in the regulation. Where, for example, are the limits of preventive measures for an employee? This seems really slow. It would be good if the Minister could clarify in his final speech what is meant so that we do not have the problem of drawing boundaries that I think many people are experiencing in the proposal that lies.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-306	Madam President, I would like In conclusion, however, I think it is important to say that those employers who feel that there are reasons for competition or other reasons, that is to say that they want faster access to health care, may be willing to take out this kind of insurance without being covered by the special tax-free regime. They may see that they still benefit greatly. Then I think it is important to say that, in the report that we have discussed several times during this debate, the OECD points out that private health insurance schemes tend to generate an increased total demand for care rather than a relief for public health care. They can render more, perhaps unnecessary, visits to specialist doctors or the like. So the islands point in a number of different directions, and I think we need to have that with us. As we move forward with this, of course, I have also tried to understand clearly how the limit should be drawn. These are rehabilitation and preventive treatment measures which are work-oriented and which are either the responsibility of the employer or which the employer would take on in the individual case. There should therefore be a close link between such actions and the activities of the employer. This still means that those employers who feel that these are measures that are important for them to come back and do their job should be able to continue to benefit from the tax exemption. Thank you for a good debate! I have great respect for the fact that you can have different perspectives on this, while I feel that the decision is nevertheless well-founded.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-310	Madam President, I would like Johan Forsell has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives or take any action in response to the report from the Social Security Inspection on the Social Insurance Fund's assessments in the rehabilitation chain. He has also asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that the Social Insurance Agency's assessments are of high quality. Helena Bonnier has also asked me, with reference to the same report, what measures I intend to take to ensure that the time limits of 90 and 180 days in the rehabilitation chain are implemented in accordance with the intentions of the legislation. When I took office as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014, the challenge was clear. Sick leave had risen sharply since 2010, and forecasts pointed upwards. One important factor behind this development was that the quality of the Social Insurance Agency's assessments at the various time limits in the so-called rehabilitation chain had been allowed to fall. On such a complex problem as sickness absence, there is not a simple solution – there are many measures that need to be addressed at the same time. A broad action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave was presented in autumn 2015 and was further developed in the 2017 budget proposal. The action programme includes actions in several areas. Among other things, the Social Insurance Agency was given more resources and a clear mandate, and the employer's responsibility was clarified. Cooperation between the social partners was launched with the aim of reducing sick leave and working for healthy workplaces. We can now see that Försäkringskassan's handling has improved. More assessments are made at the right time. The rise in sick leave has also been broken, and sick leave is now beginning to decrease as a result of the action programme. As can be seen from the report of the Social Security Inspection referred to by the interpellants, the Social Insurance Agency needs to further improve its handling. This applies mainly to the possibility of returning to work with ordinary employers. In its response to the report, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has stated that the agency is systematically working to develop its investigations and assessments. Försäkringskassan is one of several actors who can provide good support to those affected by ill health. I am convinced that employers can have a clearer role in supporting them on the way back to health and work. This is the background to the Government's proposal that within 30 days employers should develop a plan for returning to work with the employee. I am particularly concerned that sick people should not be left alone but receive good support to return to health and work. The Government has therefore invested in rehabilitation coordinators within the healthcare sector, but also several measures to increase support for the individual. These include the proposal I mentioned earlier to clarify the responsibility of employers for rehabilitation. Försäkringskassan also has an important role in providing support to the individual in the sick leave process by coordinating its various actors and identifying needs for rehabilitation. I will continue to take steps to strengthen the Social Insurance Agency's work on these issues.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-319	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. I have written this interpellation about an important area of society, namely sickness absence, which is constantly present in many people's everyday lives but also in this House. I have done so in the light of the fact that this is an area where developments have gone in the wrong direction for a number of years. We have seen an increase in sick leave, and also in costs, since both 2010 and 2014. I would say that at the present time it is unclear whether the government will achieve the objective it has set itself. The then alliance government made a major change in this area linked to what is today called the rehabilitation chain. The basis of this was that one should not have to wait very long to have one's work capacity tested, but it should take place early and continuous trials. This was done in the light of the fact that we know that the longer you are on sick leave, the harder it is for many people to succeed in returning to the labour market. It is also the case that incapacity for work does not have to be anything constant, but it can change. You may not have the ability to work one day, but you can have it a few weeks later – if you get the right efforts. Therefore, the perspective must always be to try to take advantage of the ability to work and to constantly ask whether there is another job that the person can take. The person may not be able to work 100 percent but 70 percent or 50 percent. Madam President, I would like These trials shall take place at 90 and 180 days in the rehabilitation chain. There has been a report from the Social Security Inspection which I find very worrying reading. The report shows that these assessments do not take place in all cases, and once they do, in many cases they are far too low in quality. To take it all from the beginning: Of those assessments that take place after 90 days, the quality is considered insufficient in two out of three cases. We are not talking about a small problem, but in two out of three cases it is estimated that quality is not good enough. When it comes to assessments after 180 days, in about one third of cases quality is not good enough. It is about the fact that the decisions are poorly substantiated and that the relevant information is lacking. There is no information as to whether it is possible to adapt the insured person's duties to their absence and whether the person can be reassigned to the employer. This concerns exactly what was the purpose of the rehabilitation chain – to make use of the work capacity that exists. In the case of the shortcomings after 180 days, it is the information on the capacity of the insured person to work in a normal job that needs to be improved. The Minister says that this will work out and that action has been taken. However, in two out of three cases the tests are not of sufficient quality, and it is not in all cases that these tests are even carried out. Against this background, I have to ask myself whether what the government has presented is enough to reverse developments. We are quite far into the parliamentary term – we are approaching elections. This report is very topical, so I ask myself again whether what the government has done is enough. I find it difficult to reconcile it with the problems pointed out by the Social Security Inspection.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer to my interpellation! We are talking about the assessment that has come from the Social Security Inspection. We now have facts – the rehabilitation chain is not working as intended. The task of the Social Insurance Agency is to coordinate matters around the insured person and to carry out checks and assessments. The Social Insurance Agency shall also have ongoing contacts with all those involved and, for example, agree with the insured person that he or she receives the necessary support from, for example, the health care service. Active supervision, investigation and planning are also important for the decision of the sickness benefit value in order for the insured person to receive the right benefit. Having said that, it is truly sad – not to say a little upsetting – to take note of the results of the inspection. The inspection focuses on two main issues: quality and time limits. It is stated that Försäkringskassan's responsibility is to contribute to rehabilitation and possible return to work and to coordinate the entire process. This should be done by having a dialogue with the policyholder, health care, the employer and the Employment Service. Madam President, I would like The first examination of sick leave shall be carried out at 90 days, unless the person has previously returned to work. The purpose of this examination is to examine the possibility of a return, either to the previous tasks or to other, more appropriate tasks. In order to be able to make this assessment in a legally secure manner, it is necessary for Försäkringskassan to have contact with the insured person, with the employer and with the health care service. The inspection has found that the assessments have been inadequate in one third of the cases examined. The reasons are the lack of relevant information. You have to ask yourself why. The simple answer is, unfortunately, that the Social Insurance Agency has failed to have the contacts that are important for making assessments of good and relevant quality. In one case in 93, a personal meeting with the insured person took place. Contact with the employer has often not been established. In several cases, the insured person has signalled that the mental environment in the workplace is the problem, but in no case has the Social Insurance Agency initiated a discussion with the employer based on that information. Contact with the medical doctor should be self-evident, both in order to assess the occupational capacity of the insured person and in order to assess the right to sickness benefit. In approximately 80 per cent of the cases, however, the Social Insurance Agency has not had any contact with the doctor. We believe that an earlier assessment should be made against other tasks of the employer already at day 45 and that a review of other tasks on the market should also be carried out. It is not acceptable to use large staff departures as a reason why insured persons in Sweden do not receive the follow-up and rehabilitation they deserve. We believe that the Public Employment Service should also take its share of responsibility and set up a special transition track, in which the capacity of the insured person to work is tested throughout the rest of the labour market.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-346	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Forssell and Helena Bonnier, for two very important interpellations, which put their finger on an issue that is overwhelmingly topical right now. We have had the rehabilitation chain in place for quite a few years now. In fact, the Social Security Inspection carried out an examination of the functioning of the work as early as 2011 at the time limits in the rehabilitation chain. The inspection also found major deficiencies in the handling and trials at 90 and 180-day limits. When I took office as Minister of Social Security in the autumn of 2014, I noticed that sick leave had increased sharply and that 100 000 people had been insured for the four years. Only about half of the cases of sick leave at that time had trials taken place at any time at 90 and 180-day limits. It was about alarming quality deficiencies. That is why one of the first measures taken by the government in the first package of measures we put forward to rectify health insurance was to postpone to a quarter of a billion annually to strengthen the management of the Social Insurance Agency. This has led to many more cases being investigated today – i.e. that time limits are better passed than when the last review of this was carried out. At the same time, I would like to say – given some of the contributions made here, including from Johan Forssell – that I am definitely not satisfied with what I am seeing now. Above all, I am not satisfied that so little is happening at the 90-day limit, which for the individual is extremely important when it comes to the possibility of perhaps being able to come back to their old job. I am not satisfied with the fact that the various actors are not sufficiently coordinated and that, for various reasons, they are not able to carry out their task in that part. It is clear that it makes it necessary to ask the question: Is the way in which we have now chosen to structure our health insurance, with fixed deadlines, a way that works well vis-à-vis the individuals who get sick? That is a question that must be asked, based on the Inspection of the Social Security Report. Above all, of course, this situation cannot continue. The Social Insurance Agency has responded to the report of the Social Insurance Inspection. They reply that they are working very actively to strengthen the quality of these assessments. The Government is prepared to provide additional resources but above all to take more measures to strengthen the Social Insurance Agency's coordination mission early in a case of illness. It is a matter of emphasising that this needs to be improved and that we need to get far better figures earlier in a case of illness. At the same time, we should not forget what has been the most important part of this government's policy shift. We have shifted our efforts from looking at a longer time limit in health insurance to trying instead to prevent people from getting sick. And if they get sick, they'll get a lot of money early. That is why, in my interpellation response, I particularly highlighted the new legislation that will be in place by mid-year next year. This means that a plan for returning to work should be drawn up with your employer already 30 days into a sick case. It is because it is late when you arrive at Försäkringskassan 90 days into a sick case and get that examination.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-355	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is true that the ISF produced a report in 2011. It was already noted at that time that there were a number of shortcomings. Whether it can be taken for revenue to play down the major flaws we see today, I think you should leave it unsaid. Of course, it should have worked better already then, but then the reform was quite new. It came at the end of the first alliance term. Now we stand here in autumn 2017. Now this should have sat down. Now the procedure should be in place. The follow-up that might be required should now be carried out. That is why it is worrying to take note of this report. We can repeat this. So in a very large number of cases there is not even a 90-day trial, and in two out of three cases it is not of an adequate quality. So it is not a small point of view that the Social Security Inspection is making, but it is a major criticism of how it works or, rather, how it does not work. When I listen to the Minister here, I hear about cooperation with employers and with the business community. But I wonder if it really is an answer to the question of how the Social Insurance Agency should function better. We can also consider why the work that the Minister has said has taken place during this parliamentary term does not seem to have had a major impact in this area. I think it is very much a matter of management. There may, of course, be a lack of financial resources, etcetera, and then you have to look at it. But basically, I think it's a management issue. It must be very clear from the authority's management that these tests should be carried out. You also have to have the courage to make decisions. Of course, it is not easy to work in an authority. It's about different human fates. It can often be that the individual does not get the decision it wants. But in the end, it is actually exercise of authority, where you must dare to say both yes and no. We have said from the Moderates that we believe that we need greater efficiency in the agency and a reinforced rehabilitation chain for mental diagnoses. We believe that we cannot wait as long as today - 90 and 180 days. For many people with a lighter mental illness, the best thing is not to be on sick leave. The best thing could be to work with other things on your job or to change employers. Going home for several months can even reinforce the problems that already exist. We have put forward proposals on this at Parliament's table. Unfortunately, there has been little interest in the government. One can think of how much difference it would make now that the assessments do not work better than they do. But we Moderates want to change that. I still wonder whether the government intends to take any concrete initiatives to change this. Pointing at what has been done is one thing. But we still stand here in autumn 2017 with the problems we have. I would like to repeat the question: does the Minister intend to take any new initiatives to improve the management of the Social Insurance Fund?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer I have received! I am fully aware that there is a change work going on within Försäkringskassan – it is really lucky. But somewhere you hang on to the deadlines. They're not cut in stone. In fact, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has its own recipe to reclaim the initiative here. It is that there should be continuous reconciliations and contacts with responsible parties in the whole. It is to have some guidelines based on fixed days. But otherwise it must be continuous. As I mentioned earlier, we have looked at the controls specifically highlighted in this report. Among other things, they take place at 180 days. At least it is important to keep those limits in line, so that we have reconciliation opportunities. The review shows that there is a lack of clear planning for work return. It's incredibly important. The lack of continuity and cooperation and contact with Arbetsförmedlingen is a major shortcoming there. There is also a lack of information as to whether the insured person can take up other temporary work – in other words, cooperation with the employer. The possibility of part-time work is very rarely investigated. This is an important basis for Försäkringskassan to assess in order to determine the level of sickness benefit the insured person should have. It is remarkable that only 40% of cases have been planned in consultation with the insured person. Although these are cases that have been going on for six months, they have not had that contact. In no case has the Swedish Social Insurance Agency been in contact with the Swedish Public Employment Service at 180 days, which is even more remarkable after such a long time. The assessment should also take into account whether the insured person has the capacity to work in relation to other jobs in the labour market. The Social Insurance Agency is obliged to draw up a plan for how the insured person can return to work and what is required. In just under 10% of cases, there is no plan at all. In other cases, the plans are inadequate. And they are only a quarter anchored to the insured person himself. We believe it is incredibly important that the ability to work is regularly examined. The internal monitoring of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency must therefore be strengthened. A person on sick leave cannot be required to return to work when that person is not aware of whether it is working at that place or whether he or she needs a relocation. It has also been noted that it is more difficult to return to work after a long period of sick leave. However, I am convinced that people really want to work if they can. Then this should be encouraged, and then you should not put obstacles in the way.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-372	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by sorting out a few things. Johan Forssell knows very well that what has happened since we took office in autumn 2014 and I took up the position as Minister for Social Security is that we have turned a situation in which the sickness rates ran into a situation where the sickness rates since May 2016, i.e. for quite a while, lie still and now have started to fall. We are quite close to the government's goal of low and stable sick leave. So far it's good. Regrettably, this process has also revealed persistent high quality deficiencies in the management of the rehabilitation chain. I would like to say to Johan Forssell that it is not just a report that came in 2011 and that things should then have sat down, but this has been going on in the years that have gone by since the rehabilitation chain came into place. The Social Insurance Agency, the Social Security Inspection and others have all reviewed the rehabilitation chain and pointed to these shortcomings. I can only say that I fully share the point of entry that it is totally unacceptable vis-à-vis the individual unless the right efforts are made at the right time, unless rehabilitation needs are investigated when it is to be done in a case of illness, unless contact is made with doctors and employers and if you are not attending meetings, for example, with employers. Therefore, I want to make it very clear that in these years – in addition to staring blindly at health insurance, where we have done a lot and where there is more to do – the government has also invested in much more measures. For example, we have permanent occupational rehabilitation coordinators in the health care sector, precisely in order to be able to catch an individual much earlier than when this one comes into contact with the Social Insurance Agency, which happens later. The rehabilitation coordinator, together with doctors, employers and others in an early illness, can draw up a plan for returning to work. This is also why, at the end of the six-month period, new legislation will be in place, dealing specifically with employers and employees, and providing early planning for a return to work. Without prejudging exactly what it is about, I shall also say that further steps are being prepared in the Government Office with which I will be coming back shortly. These measures relate precisely to the issue we are discussing here today, namely how we can further contribute to strengthening Försäkringskassan's management in the rehabilitation chain and how we can further contribute to strengthening Försäkringskassan in terms of the importance of taking its coordination responsibility. I would also like to say something about the 180-day limit, in which, unfortunately, for many years, we have had sad reports that people end up between the seats, between the authorities. It may be that there is no one who receives on the other side or that the communication does not work between healthcare and in this case the Social Insurance Agency or the employer. We need to ensure that people do not get caught up in this way, because otherwise I believe that people's confidence in the rehabilitation chain will soon be completely lost.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-380	Madam President, I would like If I am going to sum up the answer I am taking from this discussion today, there is a great deal on the subject that we have done, and then it is forward-looking on the role of employers. So far, so good. The problem, Madam President, is that this report with the serious criticism that exists here, that is to say that it does not make the correct quality assessments in two thirds of all cases, shows a current situation. If it had been the case that what the government has done had had as great an effect as the Minister describes, one can think about how it goes with the reality that we see. This is said not only by me but also by the Social Security Inspection. It is positive that sick leave has now flattened out. It's very funny. It is good for the state, but above all it is fun for those people who do not need to be in health insurance. I understand that the government would like to take credit for this. If you look a little more at research and analysis, however, you can see that it varies, and I am probably putting a big question mark about what the government has done. It is above all the abolition of the longer deadline, contrary to the expertise of the authorities and other experts, that has been the government's major change in this area. Contributions have also been increased in the transfer systems. The question is really what the reality would have been if this had not been done. We also see that the long illness is now increasing at a very rapid rate. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and the discussion. It is good that we can have this debate, and I hope that the government will not only lean on what has been done in the future, but also on the broad criticism that comes and thinks more about the future and how it will be better in this area.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-386	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for this discussion, which has been interesting! I have to say that it is gratifying to hear that there are going to be changes. It is just sad that during the time that has passed, so many people have felt bad and have not had their rights satisfied. For this reason, we look forward to the changes that may now arise. We agree that things are not good as they are. Then we may have a slightly different idea of how to go forward in order to get a better functioning insurance fund, which takes better care of the individuals.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-388	Madam President, I would like I must thank the interpellants for a good and important debate. As I said, a lot has happened during this parliamentary term if we compare with the developments we saw between 2010 and 2014. However, I am far from satisfied, and just as I also said, I see that not least the individual's security and right, linked to our health insurance, need to be strengthened. You should get the right support at the right time. There should be a strong presence from healthcare, employers and public authorities around the individual in need of support in a different way than today. I am very concerned about the examples where I hear how, from our authorities and from the health services, you can only look in your own drainpipe and forget who you are for, namely the individual for whom everyone has a job to support. As I said, we are also preparing more measures in the Government Office dealing with precisely how we increase support for and around the individual and how we create a safer and more secure health insurance for the individual. It is also about how we make clear demands on our authorities and the actors we have at our disposal to actually gather around the individual so that he or she can return to health and work again. Thank you for a good debate!
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-393	Madam President, I would like Eva Lohman has asked me whether I intend to proceed with the proposals presented in the study on better opportunities to combat discrimination. Discrimination prevents people from participating fully in society. I and the government want to see a Sweden where everyone has access to equal rights and opportunities. The government has taken a number of different measures in the area of discrimination during its term of office. For example, amendments have been made to the Non-Discrimination Act on Active Measures. These changes include extending the work on active measures to cover all seven grounds for discrimination both in the workplace and in the field of education and training. The government has also made proposals to extend protection against discrimination in the form of lack of accessibility. The change has been decided by the Riksdag, and the amendment will enter into force on 1 May 2018. Furthermore, the Government has proposed in the 2018 Budget Bill that the Equality Ombudsman should receive an increase of SEK 10 million and the local anti-discrimination agencies by SEK 15 million. As far as the investigation's proposals are concerned, we have recently received referrals. These are currently being analysed in the context of the preparation of the report under way in the Government Office.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-397	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I agree with the Minister for Culture and Democracy that discrimination prevents people from living their lives fully and participating 100% in society. It should be obvious that we all have the same value and that none of us should be treated differently. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The study that has recently been presented proposes, among other things, that the Swedish School Inspectorate should become the supervisory authority. That sounds interesting. In addition, in order to promote equal opportunities and rights for children and young people – pupils – this should be regulated in the School Act rather than in the Discrimination Act, if I have understood everything correctly. It is positive that the work is coordinated with the work under way on insulting treatment. Is this a proposal, Minister, that the government will proceed with?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-401	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the overall interpellation and for the clarification, that is, what the honourable Member underlined in his speech. We are currently working on the investigation's proposals. One of the proposals, as Eva Lohman says, is that school regulations should be moved from the Discrimination Act to the School Act. It is a change that Gustav Fridolin, the Minister for Education, has also stressed the importance of. He likes to see such a change. I share Mr Fridolin's view that it would be a positive change, that is to say that the rules relating to school are moved to the School Act from the Discrimination Act. The school inspectorate will then be the supervisory authority. This is also something that several actors in society sign up to and have lifted up. For example, at today's expert advice, RFSL Ungdom's chairman Frank Berglund pointed out that RFSL would like to see this.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-404	Madam President, I would like Another part of the investigation concerns the change of regulation in the Non-Discrimination Act. It will, as I understand it, be supplemented by regulations or general advice. If so, will it mean that the Discrimination Ombudsman can indicate enforcement obstacles in the case of active measures in the Discrimination Act? The investigation also proposes that the Swedish National Agency for Education be given equivalent rights when it comes to school law-regulated activities. Does this mean that these proposals will lead to greater alignment of anti-discrimination efforts?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-406	Madam President, I would like As far as the various proposals of the investigation are concerned, I would like to refer to the preparatory work under way. What the government has made clear is, among other things, that we should combat discrimination in our society. It is unprofitable in every way; mainly because it affects individuals and because it affects our society as a whole. We will make several changes that we hope will go through the Swedish parliament. We have already reinforced the possibilities of the Equality Ombudsman. As I mentioned at the outset, the decision on active measures has been taken by the Swedish Parliament. The work will continue to be carried out to combat discrimination in our society, and I look forward to presenting what we are moving forward with from the investigation's proposals.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-408	Madam President, I would like I share the Minister's view that discrimination is reprehensible, unworthy and not acceptable wherever and however it occurs. It does not matter whether it is gender, gender identity, ethnicity, religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation or age. I think it is positive that the grounds for discrimination have now been extended. I look forward to better control and opportunities to combat discrimination. It is important for each of us to be respected for what we are and for us to see ourselves as equal and equal.
i-VA11LPadCUNND9BHzvyTU8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lohman, for the debate. I welcome the discussion and the fact that there are many of us from different parties who want to combat discrimination in our country. Much work remains to be done, but the more we are who believe in the equal value of all people and are prepared to fight for it, the better our country will be.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-411	Madam President, I would like Eva Lohman has asked me how I intend to act in order to strengthen the conditions for children with disabilities to take part in the activities of cultural schools. Initially, I would like to thank Eva Lohman for her commitment to the issue of accessibility to our municipal cultural schools. I very much welcome interest in and discussion on this important issue. When we took office as a government in 2014, the Culture School was one of the first questions we started working on. Culture School has always been a municipal matter without interference from the state. The activity has lived well in many parts of the country, and its success over the years has been demonstrated by a meaningful leisure time for children and young people. The School of Culture has also played a role in many of those who later in life chose an artistic career. The study tasked with developing a national strategy for the municipal cultural school that was established in 2015 confirmed the picture we had earlier, namely that the municipal cultural school faces major challenges. These concern difficulties in recruiting teachers, obstacles to reaching different target groups and a lack of follow-up and coordination. To remain a concern for all children, the cultural school needs to be more accessible and equal. It also includes accessibility for children and young people with different types of functional variations. The report of the Cultural School Investigation made a number of proposals to increase the accessibility of the municipal cultural school in a broad perspective, and the large number of referrals gave several important points of view and input. The government has already taken steps to increase access to the cultural school in general. A state grant of SEK 100 million per year with the aim of increasing the quality of the cultural school in a broad perspective has been established and distributed by the National Arts Council to the municipalities for two years. In the 2018 budget bill, the government has proposed efforts to improve the conditions for recruiting teachers to the cultural school. Educated educators are important for the cultural school to be able to meet children and young people with different conditions. The budget proposal also proposes the establishment of a national cultural school centre in the National Council for Culture with the mission to be responsible for knowledge development, collaboration and follow-up in this area. The National Council for Culture is the responsible authority for disability issues. Such a centre will be able to act as a hub for municipal cultural schools to find inspiration, good examples and new collaborations. I am convinced that a cultural school centre at national level is one of the keys to a successful and urgent cultural school that is accessible to all children and young people. Culture school is a municipal matter, and the government believes that it should remain so. The Government's actions aim to support the municipal cultural school's development efforts in several different areas. The Government intends to come back with proposals for a comprehensive national strategy for the municipal cultural school.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-418	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Minister for his answer. I've put this interpellation on account of the government's plans for cultural school. I am thinking mainly of the national cultural school centre that the government is planning to start. It is something that we Moderates do not want to invest in, but we want to solve this in other ways. I am a little bit wondering when I hear the last paragraph in the Minister's reply, where she says that culture school is a municipal responsibility and that should remain so. I hope that there will be no lack of clarity on the part of the government towards the activities of cultural schools, because it is a municipal responsibility that, in most cases, works very well. We Moderates believe that the state can support the cultural schools through research that looks at how to broaden and deepen the activities but also look at teachers' skills so that you can receive children and young people with disabilities. We believe that this is a good way to go, because cultural schools need to change their way of working a little when it comes to receiving disabled people. Half of the cultural schools currently offer activities for children and young people with disabilities, and that is not good – there are far too few. In some cultural schools, these children and young people are not allowed to participate in regular activities. There are actors who believe that stopping disabled young people is pure discrimination. We have recently debated amendments to the Non-Discrimination Act, a debate where, among other things, discrimination in terms of accessibility for disabled people was on the agenda. I have one question: what does the Minister think of children and young people with disabilities and their access to meaningful leisure time in, for example, cultural school activities?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-424	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the school of culture is not equal. There are many cultural schools that work very well, but what the Cultural School Investigation shows in black and white is that there are inequalities. That is what has been the very beginning of the entire cultural school initiative that the government has carried out during its term of office and in which we continue to invest. This is precisely why we focus on a cultural school centre to meet what Eva Lohman highlights – the importance of coordination, spreading good examples, studies and research – and simply broaden the knowledge and competence about the importance and opportunities of the cultural school. We believe that the cultural school centre that we are now setting up and have set aside funds for in the budget bill that has been submitted to Parliament will contribute to this very thing. There is a part of what the Cultural School Investigation shows and what one believes will create better opportunities for all children in our country. In the case of teachers too, the cultural school is facing a large shift with many retirements. We need to ensure that there are teachers with specific cultural school skills. This is precisely why, as of next year – also as part of the draft budget – we are doing a cultural collegiate lift, where several higher education institutions will invest in cultural collegiate education. We need to be much better at being able to offer all children a place in the cultural school. As Eva Lohman said, far too many people feel that they do not have the opportunity to offer cultural school for children with, for example, functional variations. At the same time, there are some good examples, and they have been good examples of the SEK 100 million we invest each year. We have some amazing examples. Alingsås Cultural School has chosen to prioritise meetings and documentation with students who are struggling with some form of mental illness or other functional variations. Karlstad Municipality has invested in music therapy teachers to work individually with children with special needs. Sundsvall has trial-on activities for children with functional variations. With the investments and investments we make, we create opportunities for the cultural school to be a cultural school for everyone and not just for those children who have it so well strained that their parents have the opportunity to ensure that they can take part in the cultural school's activities. But it will require continued investment, and with a cultural school centre, a teacher's lift for the cultural school and the SEK 100 million a year that we invest, we believe that in the future we will have an equal cultural school.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-430	Mr President, I would like to I share the Minister's view that good and qualitative education should be given to all children, including those with disabilities, and that today there is inequality – no doubt about it. According to a report that I have looked in where you have looked at the average in Sweden, it is under ten children per cultural school who have some kind of functional variation, which is well the new word. So it's the incision in Sweden, so it's not good. I'm also thinking about the teachers. They have subject education, but they need competence development in how to set up teaching, how to organize and so on. There's a lot to do there. What is important is that these children and young people should not have less employment or less access to the cultural school than other children have. I will not say that the barriers are simple, but lack of availability or limited choice of adapted activities is quite common. Function variations are a wide-range white field. What I was thinking about and was going to ask is whether the Minister believes that cultural schools need a special disability perspective.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-434	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I believe that in order to reach all children and young people, the cultural school and those working in the cultural school need to have good and basic knowledge of functional variations and what specific needs they entail in terms of, for example, how the premises should be adapted, what to offer for activities and how to fill that activity with staff with skills in order to be able to offer cultural school for children with functional variations. As Eva Lohman said, these have a wide range– they are different because we humans are different. In order to relate to the first question that Eva Lohman asked about the municipal cultural school, it is for me as an environmental party but also as a Minister for Culture and Democracy in the Swedish Government absolutely fundamental and of course that the cultural school will continue to be a municipal matter. It is of course from municipal self-government and from all these municipalities that have taken such enormous responsibility and sometimes also with commitment struggled to make their cultural school survive, it is from that seed that the cultural school has been able to bloom and become such a fantastic activity. That is precisely why we need to fight for and ensure that all children can be reached by it.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-436	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. When it comes to philosophies and cultural schools, municipal responsibility and municipal activities, the state has been a little bit in and out. I am thinking of group teaching – that all teaching should take place in a group. It's normal, but it's not always good and the best thing to do. There are children and young people who, for various reasons, should have individual education in order to develop and reach their full potential. All children need cultural stimulation and opportunities for their own creation. The cultural schools themselves must be able to decide whether it should be group education or what it should be. Last I'm going to say that teachers need proper skills development, and I've been into that before. For many it is quite new to work with disabled people. It can be children with neuropsychiatric but also physical disabilities. They need skills development to learn what it's like to work with children who have disabilities or how to organise the teaching itself. It is important that children and young people with disabilities have access to inclusive leisure activities. Leisure is important for all of us, but perhaps especially for children and young people who are in a developmental phase. I look forward to seeing what happens with the cultural schools. I hope that a national cultural school centre will not be overly governing. I would have preferred research that supports instead.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-442	Mr President, I would like to As far as group and individual education are concerned, I think it is wise for us to distinguish between what an independent investigator proposes and what will be the content of the policy that we put forward. Like Eva Lohman, I am most aware that in the cultural school there needs to be freedom for the educators, those responsible, the headmaster and so on, to choose to direct the direction towards what suits their children and young people very best. That freedom will be fundamental to the policy that I am putting forward, absolutely nothing else. As far as studies are concerned, I am the first to agree that we need more research. We need even more knowledge to be able to grow and ensure that the cultural schools have the necessary conditions. Hopefully, the cultural school centre, which can become a reality with the 2018 budget bill, can contribute to that.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-445	Mr President, I would like to Olof Lavesson has asked me how I intend to act in response to the Swedish Film Institute's letter about the situation in Swedish film and whether I intend to work for the restoration of the increased cinema VAT. The government has chosen stable and long-term funding for film policy. This means that the VAT on cinema performances was increased from 6 to 25 % while the cinema fee paid by cinema owners under the previous film agreement was abolished. The net effect for the vast majority of cinemas therefore corresponds to an increase from 16 to 25 %. This financing model has been decided by the Swedish Parliament, and it is solid. The reform has been a major change, and it is therefore reasonable for the reform to be evaluated after a period of time so that all the consequences can be assessed and the reform as a whole evaluated. Otherwise, the government, as well as the Film Institute, continuously follows developments and does, just as for other cultural policy areas, adjustments if and when needed. In order to evaluate the policy, we need to have access to statistics. However, the Swedish Cinema owners' association does not want to disclose the statistics needed for an adequate evaluation to be made. This fact makes Sweden more or less unique in comparison with both Europe and the United States. Regardless of the film policy financing model or the level of taxation, public cinema statistics are available in the vast majority of countries. I have full respect for the fact that we can have different views on the VAT issue and various proposals for financial engineering. But you can also choose different strategies to act against a decision that you do not like. The Film Institute's letter contains a number of examples of how the actions of the Swedish cinema owners' association affect the film sector and the cinema audience, for example by making it more difficult to pay out support based on audience figures or by slowing down the technical development of booking systems. Swedish Bio, one of the leading actors in the Swedish Cinema owners' association, has also announced that it no longer intends to rent out its premises to the Stockholm Film Festival. I have also received a letter from the National Association of Cinemas. They gather 100 smaller and medium-sized cinema owners, and virtually all depend on support from the Film Institute. Many of these cinema owners are also affiliated to the Swedish Cinema owners' association and account for more than 50 per cent of the members of the Swedish Cinema owners' association. The letter criticises the Swedish Cinema owners' association for acting in violation of their own members' interests. The lack of statistics reduces our common knowledge of the development of the cinema market, including the number of tickets sold and price development on cinema tickets. This, of course, makes it more difficult to assess the impact of the new policy. The situation created by the actions of the Swedish cinema owners' association is unfortunate for Swedish film. The Government and the Riksdag have a responsibility to ensure that the money invested by Swedish taxpayers in Swedish film is used in a way that contributes to the achievement of the film policy objectives decided by the Riksdag, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the effects of the new policy can be fully evaluated. The availability of statistics is an important part of this work.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-453	Mr President, I would like to State cinema policy has come to mark a large part of this term of office. It was a heated debate and very frustration before the government presented its new film policy. The situation has not improved since its implementation. Dagens Nyheter on 1 November describes how deep wounds have been torn up and how there is almost a state of war between the various actors in the film industry. It can hardly come as a surprise to either the Minister for Culture or anyone else that we are now in this situation. It was clear long before the Riksdag decided on a new film policy. The statement from parts of the industry was clear: if the state breaks up with us, we break up with the state. The response from the government was then: It will probably work out when the new policy is in place. But that was not the case. Shortly after the introduction of the national cinema policy, leading cinema operators decided to stop providing total statistics on the number of cinema visitors. They justify this because they have been ignored by both the Ministry of Culture and the Film Institute and that the agreement on statistics was only part of the now closed film agreement. You can of course have comments on this, but you can hardly be surprised. That was precisely the consequence they previously warned of, and it can now be seen that it has been so. Anna Serner, CEO of the Film Institute, has now written a highly alarming letter to the Ministry of Culture, in which she writes the following: The film institute's mission to work for more film to reach more cannot be enforced without changes from a political point of view. Today, the Minister for Culture's reaction seems to be mostly: Well, that's boring! There is little self-criticism and no self-examination. There is not even an idea of what your own responsibility can be for the situation that has arisen or how you intend to deal with it in the future. Instead, the government rejects responsibility, lets the Film Institute handle film policy and thinks that the others should sharpen themselves. Does the Minister of Culture not find it completely unreasonable to renounce political responsibility and to dump it on the knees of a performance organisation? What will it take for the Minister for Culture and the Government to react? I asked two questions to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The first was whether the Minister intends to promote the restoration of the increased cinema VAT. There the answer is a clear no. Parliament's announcement does not interest her. Sweden now has a differentiated cultural VAT. It became the Red-Green Government's gift to cultural life. The second question was how the Minister intends to act in response to the Film Institute's letter. We are not getting an answer here at all. Should I take this as meaning that the Minister of Culture doesn't care what happens and let the industry take care of itself? Is that really what was meant by tying the grip on film policy?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-462	Mr President, I would like to No, with the new film policy the government wants to give Swedish film better and stable conditions. That was, and it continues, the goal. However, when you leave a film agreement that has been in existence for more than 50 years, as we knew, it will mean a transitional period. It will also, as we also knew, be lined with some mess, some unwillingness and some protests. Now the new film policy has been in place for almost a year – for eleven months. I believe that we will continue to be in a transitional phase and a transitional period. For example, the new subsidies have not yet been put into effect, because they are being worked out. We were clear when we launched the new film policy that we should not make any sharp throws. On the contrary, we know that film needs long-term and stable conditions. That is why we must allow the new film policy to ache and overlap the old one. It's gonna take time. Having said that, I am concerned about the statistics. Right now there is more money than ever for Swedish film. This is partly about the responsibility that the state has taken and which lies as a bottom that covers what the film agreement lived up to, and also about the money that SVT invests in Swedish film. So there is much more money for Swedish film than there has been before. This money cannot be legally allocated because we have no basis, and it is a huge challenge. Some time ago, I initiated a job at the department where we are now reviewing this, because I consider it extremely serious. That is also why I am so serious about responding to the interpellation. We need to find ways to ensure that we can distribute all the money that is now available, because we want more Swedish film, and we want the film to reach out to our country.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-466	Mr President, I would like to This is still no answer to my question as to what the government intends to do politically in response to the letter sent by the Institute. It is really nothing that surprises me, for the government's tone deafness has been complete throughout the whole process. The film agreement was terminated in a debate article. The consequences were unknown. But the agreement was to be terminated – point and point! Then what was called a broad dialogue and deep anchoring was promised. But when it turned out that what everyone wanted to discuss was funding, organization and collaboration, the government was no longer interested. This was not something that could be discussed, because it had already been decided here. Regardless of the degree of opposition from both industry actors and political opposition, the government did not fold an inch. It was said that the film would become part of cultural policy, and so they shocked the VAT. Now we were going to have a government film policy, and the Film Institute was given all responsibility for it. Now the industry would finally gain influence, and so they ended up in industry councils, which are really just think groups without influence. And it didn't go any better in Parliament. When we made decisions here, it was on seven fundamental points that the Riksdag made a different decision from what the government proposed. It was a failure in terms of funding. It was failed when it came to the organization. It was failed in terms of production conditions. It failed in terms of cooperation, in terms of digitalisation and piracy. What was the Minister of Culture's reaction? That everything has gone brilliantly and that there is broad support for the government's film policy! As usual, there are no limits when the Minister of Culture sings songs of praise in his own church. Now we stand here, a year and a half later. It is eleven months since this was introduced. If we are to be honest, Mr President, things have not gone so well. Actually, it hasn't been possible at all. The Minister for Culture acts as if the VAT issue is not a problem, but it is. We can read testimony after testimony about how cinemas around the country are affected by the government's new cultural VAT. These are the closure threats for cinemas and economic crises for our film festivals. Now it is the Film Institute itself that warns about the need for cinema not to be taxed separately but to have the same cultural VAT as the other culture. As far as the dialogue described in my question is concerned, the government failed as early as 2016 when the Riksdag stated in an announcement that the so-called industry councils would not be enough and that further action is needed for collaboration within the industry. Today we know that this is the case, and so is the alarm. Relations are below freezing point. Nevertheless, in this year's budget proposal, the government notes that everything is so good that no further action will be required. The result is that the government is now being given back homework. Tomorrow, Parliament will be making a renewed announcement because we see the reality as it looks. Yesterday the Minister for Culture stood in this Chamber in the budget debate and told us that the reality is shown in the tables. No, that is not the case, Mr President. Reality is not visible in the tables; it is visible outside the window. Somewhere I hope the Minister of Culture gets up, looks out the window and starts taking a little more responsibility. Again, what does the Minister of Culture intend to do about the letter? What is needed now and what the Film Institute is talking about is political action. That's why we haven't seen anything so far.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-475	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Culture and Democracy will continue to do what she has done: dare to grab leaven and not turn a deaf ear when many voices say that a film agreement no longer works. That's how it was. If Lavesson has spoken to the former Minister of Culture from her own party, Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth, he knows that the talks about the then failed film policy were initiated already during her time. It wasn't news that we had a movie deal that didn't work. There have been discussions for many years. What the previous government did was to turn a deaf ear and not to dare to take hold of this because it knew that there were also strong interests to protest. I would like to continue to think that it is too early to say that the new film policy is not working. On the other hand, the previous film policy and agreement did not work in the last few years. It's obvious. Even the parties who sat around the table left it or did not stand for what was agreed. Politics was totally untenable. The new policy still needs to be put in place. It will require more measures and more efforts, and I will have more talks with the Minister for Finance. This is what I am prepared to push through and do. But I remain convinced that this is the right way to go. It may well be that we need to raise additional funds and adjust. We need to see how the industry councils work when new players are finally allowed to sit around the table. However, we have not yet seen the results of the sectoral councils, in other words the impact they will have on the way in which the new aid is designed. They will only take effect in 2018. As far as Parliament's announcements are concerned, we are working with them. I will, of course, satisfy and follow them up. But let us remind ourselves that, if I remember correctly, it took an average of three years for the previous government to respond to announcements. We and I intend to act much faster than that. As I said, a great deal remains to be done. It is worrying about the missing statistics. I am perfectly prepared to run, and I am already doing, a job to see how we can reach out with the means we have so that they come out to cinemas, to cinemas and, finally, to all potential visitors. Nor have I ever thought that this would be a dance of roses or something that would slip by painlessly, but vice versa. I am fully aware that changing something that has been around for a long time will not change without protest, even if it has not worked, if there are strong interests in maintaining it as it has been. There are likely to continue to be protests, although I am convinced that things will slowly improve.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-482	Mr President, I would like to It's not all a rose dance. It is clear that it is quick to respond to an announcement if the answer is that you do not have to do anything because it is already done. Now the government will have to do its homework again after the vote tomorrow, and I hope that you will do it thoroughly. I'm not standing here defending the movie deal the way it was. We were in complete agreement and said it didn't work. Not all parties were involved, and there were major shortcomings in the film agreement. But that doesn't mean everything was bad about it. What worked was that there was an industry dialogue and collaboration. The industries had influence. Not everyone was at the table. It is now, but one could say that more are now invited to do less, which is troubling. The problem is that you throw the baby out so drastically with the bath water. You throw out what worked and was good. Now you have to do everything from the beginning, and it doesn't work. The Minister for Culture said here that she wants a film policy that was better, more stable and without a sharp throw. But it has become just the opposite. It has become worse, unstable and with a sharp throw, to come up with an understatement compared to what it has been like. The Minister is now saying that action should be taken and that leaven should be dealt with. I would say that is a welcome sharp throw, because I do not think we have seen it done in the past. Rather, the debate so far has been marked by strong criticism, while the government and the Minister for Culture have told us how proud it is that there are no problems, that this is the biggest reform that has ever been made and that it has finally been put in place. Pride is one thing, but it is dangerously near pride. I am pleased with the tone heard today. They are more marked by humility, and that is welcome. Let me give the Minister for Culture a piece of advice: make this dialogue work again. It's below freezing point now. That is not acceptable. On all sides we are now appealing for political action, so do not leave this on someone else's lap and do not blame a third party. Make sure to deal with the dialogue and take responsibility so that we can finally get a film policy worthy of the name.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-489	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your generous advice, Lavesson! If there's anything I've never been afraid of, it's taking on responsibility. I am impregnated by the will to stand at the front of the barricade and always take responsibility for the politics I pursue, the ideas I have and the reality I want to see. That is precisely why I said that we have to deal with this issue of film policy, even though the warning calls, or rather the whispers, came to me. They said, "Don't do that. " It's just gonna be trouble. But I said, we have to. Someone's got to dare. That is why I thought that I would do it as early as possible during my term of office, so that I could run it throughout my term of office and perhaps also in the coming period in one form or another. This is long-term work, and it will take time. But I'm still convinced. The same argument we had then about why we do it, I remain convinced. I am also fully prepared that there will be more tough discussions and hard work, and I will have to fight, as I said earlier, with both the Minister for Finance and others, to ensure that there are good resources for Swedish film. We must also ensure that the sectoral councils, which have not existed for long at all, work. We will also evaluate them. Evaluation will be a red thread. It is particularly important at the beginning that we follow up, but then we also make real evaluations so that we see what more we need to do and what we need to adjust. The dialogue is, of course, a factor that must be there. But again, my decision from the outset to push through a new film policy because the previous one, which was bound by a film agreement, did not work. But it will continue to require hard work.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-495	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take to make public service relevant in the future. Public services, or public broadcasting, are performed independently of the state as well as other spheres of economic and political power in society. The broadcasting companies Sveriges Radio, Sveriges Television and Sveriges Utbildningsradio are independent limited companies. The activities are managed at an overall level by means of multi-annual broadcasting authorisations and annual allocation conditions. The permits and conditions are decided by the Government according to the framework and direction established by the Riksdag. For each new permit period, an investigation will be set up to investigate and propose conditions for public service in the coming years. The next authorisation period will start in 2020. In February, therefore, I appointed a parliamentary committee to analyse the conditions for public service broadcasting and propose the necessary changes in order to continue to create good conditions for its activities. The assignment includes, among other things, proposing appropriate regulation for public services in a media landscape where an increasing proportion of content is distributed in an online environment. All parliamentary parties are represented on the committee, which will submit its final report in June 2018. One of my most important tasks as Minister of Culture and Democracy is to safeguard the independence of the media, in particular public services. It is therefore unthinkable for me to comment on the activities of public service broadcasters during an ongoing authorisation period. I look forward to hearing the report of the Parliamentary Public Service Committee and am convinced that it will provide a sound basis for public service to remain relevant in the future.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-498	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Culture, for the answer to my interpellation! I think it is important for politics to be up-to-date, for us to be involved in monitoring developments and to keep up with them. A great deal is happening in the field of technological development. I guess it's been doing that all along, but now it's going really fast. Above all, there is the opportunity to access information everywhere. This is not an interpellation debate on whether or not to have public service, because it is a bit of another issue that we can certainly discuss at another time. But assuming that we have public service, one can discuss how it should be made available and in what kind of channels there should be. At the time of the establishment of public service, so to speak, there was neither the internet nor any kind of online news. Basically, it was the only information available to the television or radio channel. Now we get information from all kinds of sources, and of course it is both accurate and good information as well as incorrect and less good information and what is now known as fake news by some populists on the other side of the Atlantic. It is clear that source criticism and independent media are important. It is important that we have media that gives a good picture. I heard the Minister's reply, and I understand that one cannot be inside and comment in detail, but perhaps the Minister can still give a little insight into what the Minister sees possibilities without, for that matter, going in and regulating in detail what public service is doing today. We are currently having a discussion about how public service should be paid for, and it is probably important that public services follow developments and participate in the development, provided that we have public service. There are all sorts of new technologies that can be used when it comes to digitalisation and so on. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister whether the government has any idea or vision. Or are there no thoughts? Even if you are the minister responsible and you are in government, it is clear that you should have a prospect before the contract period expires, otherwise it is a little late.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-503	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Holm Barenfeld, for the interpellation! I am extremely concerned about public service, and so I am also concerned about public service discussions. We have set up a parliamentary committee. Holm Barenfeld is not a representative of his party in it, but that is precisely why I am becoming particularly anxious that this should be an active discussion throughout the Moderates. I believe that we need to be very many in this House who are safeguarding the independence of public services and also the future conditions for public services to carry out their work. Just as the Member of Parliament described in short terms, there are a number of challenges for public service. One of them – there are many – is about the online environment, which Holm Barenfeld writes about in his question to me. It's about how public service should be up-to-date and reach out and be keen for many, for all, in the environments where we are media consumers. Then there is the issue of online, that is, online media, and social media. The fact that I can address that very point and do so without reservation is because it is part of the directives for the investigation that I have drafted. Having said that, I hope that the parliamentary committee will problematise the issues and give me and the government a basis that is a modern proposal for how public service broadcasters will work to maintain their concerns and continue to build on their trust. The public service companies are extremely valued. It is remarkable, and something that everyone who pays the radio and TV fee should be proud of. When we measure trust in our various institutions, they are the highest and have done so for many years. High trust requires, among other things, that people can be reached by the activity. And we increasingly leave our classic TV sets and take advantage of content in other ways. But we also take note of the effects of public service, such as reviewing work. Public services are examining people like us, who are in this House right now, and those in power, companies and other parts of society at large. And it also affects those who may not listen to P1 every morning. We therefore need a good report, which I also hope will be widely supported. Another concern, for me as responsible minister but also for public service as an idea, is that the more fragmentation there is about the importance of public services, the greater the risk of undermining public services. It is about good funding but also what to do.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-510	Mr President, I would like to I and the Minister of Culture can certainly have different views on fascination when it comes to paying for a service and a service that you cannot voluntarily opt out of. As for myself, it is not at all unlikely that I would choose to pay if it were optional and if I could not take part of what is broadcast without paying. But it is, as I said, about how we view public service as a whole. It is clear that there would be the possibility of having public service as a payment service, which we can choose as well as other television channels and media channels. If you pay, you have access to the transmission or it's strangled. But then the question is what can be called public service. At the same time, it is important, now that we have public service, that they use all the media that can be accessed. And when it comes to content and how you choose to present this, it is also important that you do not compete with commercial media in such a way as to compete with them. There is, in fact, a completely different level of funding than they do. They must withdraw the money by being so attractive that customers choose to look at it. Basically, my hope is that public service and content will be so good, and given the studies referred to by the Minister, they should be so attractive that people would be willing to pay for the service voluntarily if there were such an arrangement. As far as the business is concerned, the question is, of course, whether what works in commercial media, the most commercial parts, are those that are to be broadcast in media operated by means of an imposed fee or tax. We can always discuss that. I think it is important, as I said, to keep up with technological developments in a good way. This is certainly being done to some extent today. But I believe that politics must set the path. That is why it is good that we have the parliamentary inquiry. I hope it will be detailed, concrete and visionary. I hope, as with most issues, whether public service or any political subject, that steps will be taken towards greater freedom of choice.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-516	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld implicitly and almost explicitly opposes his party line when he talks about the funding of public service. The Committee has already put forward its proposal for a financing model, which everyone supported. I was very pleased that there was unanimity behind it. If he goes against his party line, it is unfortunate, and then it is discussions that need to be conducted within the Moderates. I speak and have spoken a lot with Moderates who think that the proposal that the Committee has made on funding is good. There are many Moderates who understand the importance of strong and independent public service, not least in view of the times we live in. There are many strong forces and powers who in various ways try to influence, spread propaganda and do disinformation work. Perhaps the importance and role of public service is more important than ever. Then it would be deeply unfortunate not to have stable funding and a broadcasting permit with a clear framework that sets out independence. If we undermine it, we will have to answer for it for future generations. I think these are discussions that we need to have broadly in the Swedish Parliament. We need to be many democrats who stand up for public service conditions. But we also need to stand up for the media as a whole. Although public services have a special role and position, many media companies face enormous challenges. And we need journalism that examines us in power, as I said earlier, and that carries out its important role in the construction of democracy. Perhaps I and Christian Holm Barenfeld have different views on certain parts. I hope that is not the case with regard to funding. But when it comes to public service reaching as many as possible and being on the platforms where people are to be concerned but also building and continuing to strengthen trust in them, we are in complete agreement.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-521	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are a relatively large party, with the ambition to become even bigger, and it is high in the ceiling internally. I'm sure there might be nuances. But given that we have public service, we have been clear that we think that funding through the tax bill is better than a forced fee. We also have party decisions on this. As it is today, one can basically choose to pay or not, because there are marginal possibilities for sanctions. We would also get rid of an authority, Radiotjänst, which will collect the fees, because it does not have to be done. That's good, too. I may find it a bit amusing to decide on some form of total budget before actually deciding on the exact content. It's a little backwards according to my way of looking at it. However, I have not been involved in the investigation – I am not in the investigation and should not be – and may think that one could solve it even more effectively. The fact that we have independent news and information is important. Not least in times that can be called fake news times, it is of great importance. But I am possibly slightly less popular for public service than a majority in the Swedish Parliament does. I think it is a good thing that we have a discussion about it, as we do in other contexts. I think it is important to have competition, debate and to justify why you do things, that you thereby strive to be the best, whether we have public service and whether you represent public service or not. It is nevertheless important that we have this debate.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-524	Mr President, I would like to Yes, discussion is crucial for us to be able to work out good policies. As far as public service is concerned, I am keen that the debate on their preconditions, content, framework and independence should be conducted in the special order that a parliamentary committee is now working on on on the basis of clear directives. It will make proposals in June. After that, the big discussion takes place, also outside the Swedish parliament. I have good hope, not least after the first part of the work concerning funding, that there is a consensus among the majority of the Swedish Parliament. We will be able to guarantee clear independence. Funding is essential in terms of being able to carry out public service and in many ways democratic missions. I look forward to many interesting discussions and discussions in the future.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-527	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Hökmark has asked me how I intend to work to strengthen the conditions for the Swedish gaming industry. As Isabella Hökmark noted, the computer game industry is one of the fastest growing industries in Sweden and a good example of how knowledge-intensive companies are growing in Sweden. It is important that Sweden continues to be an attractive country for new and knowledge-intensive companies. This makes us competitive, innovative and is a prerequisite for future welfare. The government is dedicated to creating good conditions for entrepreneurship in Sweden both for the computer game industry and for other industries. Thanks to stable finances, we have been able to make important investments in infrastructure, research and, not least, housing and education. This also means that we can pursue an active business policy with a focus on efforts that further improve the conditions for companies, growth and increase Sweden's attractiveness. But we also create more training places and invest more in mathematics and programming already in primary school. Access to qualified skills is indeed a key issue for the computer game industry. The government has therefore proposed tax incentives for employee options to better attract and retain skills in innovative and fast-growing companies. When skills are not within the country's borders, it should be easy to recruit talent from other countries. This is why, among other things, we have commissioned the Migration Agency to work to shorten processing times and improve information for jobseekers and entrepreneurs. The rules on work permits that we have today were developed by the former bourgeois government. In some cases, as Isabella Hökmark points out, the rules lead to unreasonable consequences. The government considers that the current situation where workers are at risk of expulsion due to minor mistakes on the part of the employer is unacceptable and affects both workers and serious employers who are trying to do the right thing. There must be an opportunity to correct mistakes so that employees have the opportunity to stay and contribute their skills in Swedish companies. Therefore, on 22 June, the Government submitted a proposal on the possibility of failing to withdraw when the employer has, on its own initiative, taken a corrective action. The Government has also gone further and is investigating an opportunity to correct minor, non-intentional mistakes after the Migration Board has pointed out shortcomings in the conditions during the permit periods. The investigator shall submit his proposals by 31 December 2017. These are examples of measures that strengthen the development and competence supply for, among other things, the computer game industry and for Sweden as a knowledge nation.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-534	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. It is good that the Minister recognises the importance of the computer game industry, but it would also be good if he realised that even more important are the jobs, incomes and taxes it creates. The gaming industry has a crucial role to play in Sweden's ability to be a leading IT nation. It contributes to a critical mass of knowledge and competence, entrepreneurship, creativity and a data maturity that is important for our entire society. The computer game industry creates world-leading programmers and contributes to the development of creativity and ability to solve problems that benefit our entire society. The gaming industry generates jobs for young people regardless of where they come from, it revitalizes the Swedish industry and contributes to the Swedish industry being a leader in digital development. I therefore believe that the Government should be a little more humble than simply saying that everything has already been done and that what is missing is the fault of the Alliance Government. First of all, the current government has not addressed the housing problems. On the contrary, you are now pushing for a reduction in construction. By your decisions, there has in principle been no infrastructure either in the Stockholm area or in the rest of Sweden. You started by freezing major infrastructure investments. Then you cancelled the distribution of the 700 MHz band to be used for mobile wideba and new digital development. Instead of Sweden being the first, we will be among the last. It is true that you have put forward proposals on employee stock options, but that is not enough because you still make it more difficult for small and growing companies to attract skills. Finally, as far as the recruitment of labour is concerned, you have so far done nothing but blame the government that has been set up until 2014. No matter when and who made what proposal, it is you who have been ruling since 2014, and soon it will be 2018. Against this background, I would like to ask the Government what you want to do for a computer game industry that sees a lot of obstacles to its growth here in Sweden. Is there anything you want to do besides saying that everything is fine?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-541	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, interpellant, for the opportunity to discuss the computer game industry in Sweden! It is an industry that not only grows but also has a very strong international reputation. We have not mentioned it very much, but I would like to start by saying that Sweden has been at the forefront of the vote on Europe's best country for gaming development for several years in a row. When Steam – the world's largest marketplace for digitally distributed PC games – awarded for the first time last year's best games sold on the platform, no less than 11 out of 100 games had a Swedish connection, which is impressive. When Nintendo – a Japanese classic video game brand – launched its new game console Switch earlier this year, they showed a trailer about emerging indie games. What is exciting is that almost a third of the games that were shown had a Swedish connection. This is an industry that in itself creates jobs and growth. It also creates a hugely positive image of Sweden. We get a reach out in the world that few other sectors have. As the interpellier says, this is one of the backbones of digitalisation, not only in its own sector, but the computer game industry is also creating a drive forward for other sectors in terms of digitalisation. It's fun that Sweden is the world leader. I think we should take care of it. When I meet the industry and the sector, there are two obstacles to development. The first and most important obstacle is the issue of skills supply. Today, there is a problem with getting hold of people. This is why we are expanding the education system, both the university and higher education system, with quite a few thousand new places to equip Sweden for the long term. Then we implement the largest expansion of the YH system since YH came into being, i.e. the polytechnic system, with 12 800 new places over the next three years. These are trainings that only come about as sectors or sectors point out that there are shortcomings here. Education is needed where delivery is a little faster than perhaps a 3- to 5-year education at universities and colleges. The training initiatives are important, but the option programmes should also be added. For the first time, Sweden is now receiving an option programme that gives small start-ups the opportunity to connect skills to them in order to grow as a company. In addition to the issue of skills, the issue of capital is important. This government has taken two initiatives to rescale and reschedule state venture capital in Saminvest AB to invest fund-in-fund to build up international venture capital in Sweden in the long term. In addition, we have done a lot through Almi and the lending from the state actors in order for companies to be able to obtain funding. Now I have answered quite a lot to the question what we are doing and what we are thinking. Isabella Hökmark raised the housing issue as number one in the Stockholm area without her touching any of the own responsibilities of the Moderates for the enormous conversion of tenant-ownership apartments that took place during the bourgeois period in the City Hall. There were 21,000 dwellings that were converted from rental apartments to residential units. Somewhere between 80 and 90 per cent of the housing building that was at a relatively low level and that you managed to present during your time in power in Stockholm were residential apartments. Ask these sectors if they think it would be good to have more rental apartments, which is a flexible form of housing that allows people from other countries to come and try living here without having to buy their first home in a overheated housing market! Add to this: The large housing building we have achieved in Sweden is now well over 70 000 homes per year.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-553	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree that it is important that this industry is successful. That is why I am keen that these jobs should remain in Sweden. That's why I asked my questions. I myself have been on many visits to expansive companies in Stockholm. They point to the very difficulties I have mentioned. Among other things, it is a question of taxation. There are some foreign skills that do not want to come to Sweden because you have to pay too much in taxes. It is also a problem to recruit from other countries in the start-up phase. It is difficult to get people from other countries here. As far as capital is concerned, it is difficult in the initial stage. Once they get started, capital falls on them from venture capitalists. They also mention the housing market. I think the best way to travel is to own your accommodation, but you have made it more difficult with the amortisation requirements. It's hard for young people to buy, because it's so hard to borrow money. Of course, it would be good to have more rentals, but then the rental market must be free. It would be better, because then it would be easier to rent out and rent housing. Many of them put out easier jobs such as coloring and animation of movies. It is too expensive to have in Sweden. Instead, they buy up studios across Europe, because there the labour force is cheaper. So some jobs are already disappearing from here. There are other countries that are very on and screaming for them to come: Come here and get tax relief! They do a lot to attract these companies. I'm still a little concerned that they might not stay. As far as employee options are concerned, the Moderates have proposed a more generous system, where there is no limitation on how old the business may be, where gross assets may be higher and where the average number of employees may be higher. I think it would work better. I think that the Minister should listen to these companies and hear what the problems are, because there are problems that I have pointed out.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-564	Mr President, I would like to What does the industry itself say: We have never had more start-ups than now. This is largely due to the successful incubators, whose concept buds off to more places in the country, but also to a growing number of industry veterans who start their own after a long time with some of Sweden's most renowned game developers. How many are we talking about? In 2016, more than 70 new companies were created. That's an increase of 19%. The employment growth was 16 per cent. Compared to the rest of the labour market, you can see that it is a high figure. I share the view that you have to work with both skills and capital, which are two of the major limitations, but also with the housing issue. Here the Moderates in Stockholm do not have a good track record. You built less than we do, and you sold out the rents that existed. This makes it even more difficult for people who do not know whether they intend to establish themselves in Sweden or not. Coming here and renting an apartment for a few years and then deciding to buy an apartment is the way it should be done, because it creates flexibility in the housing market. So to venture capital. Where are the new companies, and where do the most people work with game development in Sweden? Stockholm dominates. There are 72 percent of all game developers here. In Malmö there is 15 percent, in Gothenburg 8 percent and then Uppsala and Skövde. In this list something is missing. Norrlandslänen does not weigh very heavily in this area. What is being done there to support this? Arctic Game Lab has been started to gather the entire gaming industry in Norrlandslänen and develop clusters. It started in Skellefteå 2014 and has developed positively in 2015 and 2016. Boden, Piteå, Umeå and Luleå are municipalities that are partners now. Boden has also received a unique two-year course in indie game development, which holds this initiative together. There is enormous potential here. The major financier is Norrlandfonden. It is a hugely exciting player for venture capital also from the state to bring about investments throughout Sweden. They have invested in five different game development companies in Umeå, Skellefteå, Boden and Sundsvall. In this autumn's budget, we propose that the Norrland Fund should receive SEK 200 million more, because we see that it is important to support growth and job creation throughout the country. The Moderates' budget is a little harder to read. You seem to remove all new efforts for this year in this area of expenditure. That's how I interpret it, because it's about as much money as our whole new venture. This includes the Norrland Fund. Would you like to delete Norrlandsfonden's opportunity to support the emerging gaming industry in Norrlandslänen, which shows great potential and is a way for Sweden to take advantage of expertise throughout the country when we now want to develop an industry that should stand on several legs in order to meet the future?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-573	Mr President, I would like to I visited a game training course in Skövde. What was missing there, and that would have to be discussed with the Minister for Education as well, is education in entrepreneurship. When they are ready, many are surprised that they will pay VAT and such things, so such training is needed for them to go one step further. Sometimes they stay in the incubator for quite a long time. As for the supply of capital, I met some who said: When we started our company, we fought, borrowed money and did not take out wages. Now we have become venture capitalists and support others. That's great, but then we have to make sure to raise the limit of government income tax and remove the military tax so that we can keep this money here. If you have started a business you must feel that you get back, because you may have gone a long time without pay. It must pay off for itself and in order to contribute to others. There's a value in it. The fact that there are some problems and challenges recognises both me and the Minister. I would like the Minister to discuss with the computer game industry solutions to safeguard competitiveness and increase attractiveness so that companies stay in Sweden. I already see that parts of companies are beginning to disappear from Sweden to various studios around. More jobs in Europe may be useful, but it also disappears to other parts of the world. I am a little afraid that the conditions may still not be so good for these companies.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-577	Mr President, I would like to I thank Isabella Hökmark for the debate. I'd be happy to discuss with the computer game industry how we can develop it more. It is both about competence and about capital, including the Norrland Fund to use all of Sweden's potential. I very much hope that there is something wrong with the Moderates' budget when it comes to strangulating the SEK 200 million for venture capital in the early stages when private capital often does not exist. That is precisely what is being asked for in this sector. It is also a question of looking at the housing issue, which is a narrow section. This government has been given up housing construction at historic levels, and we also give priority to the construction of rental apartments. We can take an even longer perspective. It is not only technical know-how that drives the computer game industry. It is also a very creative industry. In fact, there is a connection here with the last debate on culture. It's about getting more artists, scriptwriters, designers, musicians and designers to work in this sector. Here the government makes offensive efforts to develop culture so that more people try out culture and so that you can practice culture in many different forms. If we are to discuss the development of the computer game sector, this is a matter for the Moderates to review. You are doing quite a slaughter in the field of culture, and I think that is short-sighted if Sweden wants a computer game industry that is growing.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-583	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bonnier has asked Ylva Johansson and the Government what measures are intended to be taken to create the conditions for more simple jobs in the Swedish labour market. The interpellation has been handed over to me. One of the biggest challenges at the moment is to continue investing in growth and pushing down unemployment. Since the government took office, many new jobs have been created, and another 200 000 people today have a job to go to. At the same time, unemployment is high among people who are further away from the labour market. To meet this challenge, strong action is needed. Job seekers need to have the right skills to fill vacancies created by job creation. The Government is therefore making major efforts in the field of education, and the 2018 budget proposal proposes additional funding for the Knowledgelift, which, when fully built in 2021, will include around 93 000 places of education in, among other things, vocational adult, folk high school and university of applied sciences. As of 1 January 2018, the Government will introduce education requirements for new arrivals who are taking part in start-up measures at Arbetsförmedlingen in order for more people to take part in education within, among other things, Komvux and folk high school. Employment support is simplified and strengthened in order to create the conditions for more people with a weak base in the labour market to receive subsidised employment. The introduction of introductory jobs will contribute to the ambition to create better conditions for easier pathways to work. The social partners are key players in bringing groups that are far removed from the labour market to work. The government therefore welcomes the fact that trade unions and employers' organisations have now reached a broad agreement in principle on so-called start-ups in order to make it easier for newcomers and the long-term unemployed to enter the labour market. The proposals of the parties require cooperation between the social partners and the state. The Government welcomes the fact that the parties have agreed on a proposal and will now analyse which state commitments are requested by the parties through the agreement. In 2017, the Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked with promoting models and initiatives aimed at matching job seekers and employers based on the needs of companies. 2018 – 2020 is an effort to scale up successful initiatives and to offer support to additional actors that offer important links to the world of work. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government has proposed that the Swedish Agency for Growth be given a mandate to strengthen networking and increase contact with the labour market for foreign-born women and that an effort be made to promote foreign-born women's entrepreneurship. The Government also announces in the 2018 budget proposal an investment in green industries, such as nature conservation and soil conservation. Simpler ways to work in the green industries are created through, for example, internships, modern standby jobs or other subsidised employment. It gives people the skills they need from the business community. The Swedish Forest Agency, Sweden's geological survey, the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency are given special funding for this. The Government's investment in extra services and modern preparedness jobs with the target group newly arrived and people with long periods of time without work continues. The number of employees is steadily increasing and is now approaching 10 000 people.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-592	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply, which I have heard with great interest. These are undeniably positive figures that now come from the Employment Service. More people have found employment with the current boom, and strangely it might be otherwise. At the same time, the government has a long way to go to fulfil the election promise of 13 000 extra posts, 32 000 trainee jobs and 5 000 new jobs in social procurement. Now the trainee jobs are scrapped, and it's simply because they didn't work. But then one might wonder where the promise of these 32 000 jobs has gone. The same applies to the 5 000 jobs in social procurement. If you put this together, there are quite a few jobs that still stand and wonder where they should be. Therefore, I think there is reason for me to repeat the question: what measures is the government taking to create better conditions for the success of jobs, particularly simple jobs? There is a need for a completely new approach to what kind of work is needed by society and which can suit the large group that is currently outside the labour market. This applies to newly arrived, low-skilled and foreign-born Swedish citizens. In the concept of new arrivals, I also include asylum seekers, a large group that can also be a large resource. In the past, it was possible for them to at least be allowed to practice during the asylum process. But today that possibility has been removed. As far as I can see, residence permits are required for all the various actions that exist today, such as additional services. It is required that the person has either participated in the Job and Development Guarantee for 450 replacement days or is new arrivals and has been granted a residence permit for the last 36 months. An establishment plan must also be taken into account. There is a large gap between the unemployed and the level of education. This gap will always exist, which makes it all the more important to find jobs that do not require upper secondary education. In the answer, the government constantly returns to demands for education. The fact that more people are educated is, of course, important and good. It is a way into the labour market and a way of livelihood. The government has indicated reinforced efforts on education in its response. However, the need for training among newcomers, where unemployment is most widespread, is so great that it is practically impossible to meet. Many of those who have been granted asylum in the country have very low levels of education. In some cases they do not have any training at all. They don't know the language and lack networks and contacts. Then I think it is a bit naive to think that they should be able to acquire, through a series of training efforts, the basic skills that are a requirement for access to the Swedish labour market at all, as you have designed it today. Take, for example, the requirement for upper secondary school competence! It is a watershed in the Swedish labour market. The reality is that one in three job seekers does not have upper secondary education, and it is not easy to get it either. It is not even easy for Swedish young people, who know the language. For adults who do not know the language and have no training in their luggage, it is even more difficult. At present, it takes about nine years for half of the newcomers to enter the labour market. More and more simple jobs are needed – jobs that do not require upper secondary education or higher education and do not require extensive knowledge of the Swedish language. That is why I ask: how does the government intend to resolve this?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-600	Mr President, I would like to I thank Helena Bonnier for an important interpellation. The question is how we now face the big challenge that Sweden faces with dealing with the new arrivals that came not least in 2015. This is one of the major challenges facing the Swedish labour market. Let's see how the jobs get more. It is high employment and falling unemployment, especially for the youth group. We now have very low levels of youth unemployment, in fact the lowest figures in over ten years. The groups that are stuck in unemployment or are at risk of falling into unemployment are those who have been away from the labour market for quite some time or who are newly arrived and struggling to enter. As unemployment declines, more difficult groups remain in unemployment, and new efforts are needed. I think we fully agree on that. It is also good that we seem to agree on the importance of major training efforts. If you do not have a basic level of education, it will be very difficult to manage in society in general. It is not just about entering the labour market. It is also about how to manage as a citizen of society. One of the important changes we are making now is the introduction of education obligations. When people have come to Sweden to take part in certain public activities, there is a possibility to require them to participate in education and training in order to receive the support in question. Those who come are thus given opportunities, but they are also required to participate in education and training. I will not go into this too much, but of course we are quite pleased that we are now up to almost 10 000 additional posts. We have promised up to 13 000 additional services, but this is above level. Now we are ahead of the plan for extra services, which is a huge opportunity to give an extra hand, perhaps in the care of the elderly, in preschool or in the non-profit sector, where there are many organisations that want to offer new arrivals or the long-term unemployed a new opportunity. As far as the trainee jobs and statistics are concerned, the previous election movement was very much concerned with how to reduce youth unemployment. Trainee jobs were rigged in the way that they were actually a practical opportunity for young people who had upper secondary education, so that they could enter the Swedish labour market. It is not that we have failed to do so, but it is no longer necessary. Trainee jobs are not needed. It is not young people with upper secondary education who find it difficult to get a job in the Swedish labour market today. One must be so pragmatic as to delete measures that do not matter and instead target the groups on which we can agree have problems. That's where you can make a big effort. It is quite wise to steer this way. I outlined in my interpellation response quite a number of different actions now directed at these groups. If I can zoom out again, these special efforts are needed. But what really creates more jobs that are quite easy to get into is that we keep Swedish growth going at a high level. We have expected growth of 3% this year and high growth next year too, higher than our neighbours. The Employment Service expects that this year and next year approximately 150 000 new jobs will be created in Sweden. Eight out of ten of the new jobs will go to people born outside Sweden because unemployment has fallen sharply among native Swedish citizens or people who have lived their whole lives here, while we have seen that the remaining unemployment is in other groups. So the big effort is to keep growth and job creation going. It creates jobs not only for engineers and professors, but also for cleaners, kitchen assistants and nurses in a growing economy.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-608	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for your answer! It is, of course, to be welcomed if the social partners can now agree to create opportunities for more jobs, even if they are not necessarily simple jobs. But I am constantly referring to a little simpler jobs, which do not require the education that you have been stuck in. Of course, a certain level of training is required for all jobs, but the high level that I think you are at is not realistic. We must also emphasise that all the details of the agreement under discussion are not clear. It is therefore a little too early for the government to recognise the principle agreement as a victory. Surely it should be a little smok in the cup that not all the trade unions have joined in on this. Before the final agreement is in place, it is clear that we do not yet know exactly what it contains and will mean. For this reason, we see this as a little hesitant, and we are still asking about simple jobs that are not always based on subsidization. The start-up jobs that the government is now introducing, we consider Moderates to be the wrong way to go. We maintain that entry jobs are the right way to balance the labour market on a lasting basis. But we also need to talk about simplifications for entrepreneurship: tax relief, benefit system, employment costs. We need to look at laws and rules in order to have a good labour market and good opportunities for the very simple jobs, to which I will return. Nor should we forget that Arbetsförmedlingen already has an assignment under the Act on Establishment Measures for persons between 25 and 65 years of age who have a residence permit, and also for persons between 18 and 20 years of age who have no parents in Sweden. In this context, it may be interesting to ask how cooperation with employment services, municipalities and the business community can be improved and perhaps even radically changed to achieve the goals that we all hope to have: that more people should feel the satisfaction of having a job. Another way to create better conditions for more simple jobs would, for example, be to extend the RUT and ROT deductions to more services. You are now saying that you have already done so, but they could be further extended. Above all, more posts could be included, and then the number of simple jobs would increase; we have seen that in the past. When it comes to preparedness jobs, a recently published report from Statskontoret shows that most of them have received jobs, but not in the group for which the rescue jobs were intended. It would, for example, be an excellent effort in the healthcare sector to introduce simple jobs. Is it right to use a trained nurse's skills in such a way that she will water flowers and wash dishes? In fact, someone else could. A new profession focused on health and care services would certainly be welcome. We're talking about simple jobs, not jobs for the unskilled. But there are simple jobs that do not require upper secondary education. The state can't create simple jobs. But the state will create the conditions for simple jobs to be created in the business world, among companies and in industry. I wonder if the Government might agree with me on this.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-616	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree that there is a need for both public and private jobs in the future and that the business community has a great responsibility. But if we start with the public, I think there will be a little bit of a double response from the Moderates in this discussion. If you now think it would be good to relieve health and social care staff in Sweden with tasks that are a little side by side but that could make the profession easier so that you have more time to do what you really should at work, the extra services are exactly such a measure. From what I understand, the Moderates want to remove them. It is 10 000 people who now have extra services and relieve existing staff in, for example, health and care professions. This gives a chance to get real work experience, get into a workplace, show that you are good enough and learn the language for some time. I therefore believe that this effort is very good and that it would be a huge mistake if the Moderates had their way and removed this opportunity to relieve staff in the public sector. I'm going to the private side. In August, you signed up for the entry jobs. You wrote that you want to legislate on this in the future, which actually means legislation on lower wages in the Swedish labour market. I was upset about this and thought it was wrong. You also wrote that this is a major priority for an incoming alliance government, unless the social partners agree on a corresponding solution. Now we have parties on the Swedish labour market who have broadly agreed on a principle agreement, and what happens then? The first thing that happens is that the bourgeois parties stand in line and say that they don't care if the parties have agreed on a new model to get more people into the Swedish labour market with easier ways in, where employers only have to pay about 8 000 SEK a month to have an employee; that's the principle agreement. Then you dump it and threaten to instead go in with legislation and pressure wages on the Swedish labour market. I think this is a very strange news. This threatens the Swedish model in the Swedish labour market. I have listened to many of my colleagues in various countries in Europe. There, the election movements have been about politicians sometimes wanting to go in and decide on raised minimum wages. Here we have for the first time Moderates who go to elections to lower minimum wages in a society. It will have effects for this group, but it will also affect the Swedish labour market that rings on the water. This is a proposal which I think we will have to discuss many times before the elections. I do not believe that politicians should legislate on the reduction of salaries in the Swedish labour market, especially when the parties to the Swedish labour market have made a principle agreement that they want to have a discussion with the political system about and that they want us to support. The government that is now sitting will take that very seriously.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-623	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that we do not share the same view on these issues. But the start-up jobs that you want to introduce are challenging for wage formation at all – that low-performing people receive as much in salary as others. It also opens up the possibility of fraud. It should not be said that the labour market is that way, but there is still a reluctance in the system that is being introduced. I would also like to mention this by studying on working time. Education is, in itself, good, but I think you've stuck a little too much in this. The education must therefore be paid for, while others on the Swedish labour market must pay for their training themselves. In addition, only certain sectors are included in the agreement on start-up jobs. There is also a dividing line that we do not think is right. It is also true that workplaces must have collective agreements in order to participate. So there are many questions. It is very possible that they can be straightened out in cooperation, but it must be done before we can say that we think this is a good way instead of the entry jobs that we have proposed.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-627	Mr President, I would like to I think this is an incredibly important discussion to have for the September elections. We can have a situation where trade unions and employers negotiate on the Swedish labour market on wages and conditions. Now they have made a principle agreement that is about reducing the cost of an entrepreneur or employer who chooses to hire a person who has recently arrived in Sweden or a person who is long-term unemployed – radically reduce the cost of getting them into the labour market. We know that these people may not be as productive as someone who has lived his whole life in Sweden or who has the right education. This will reduce the cost for companies without lowering wages in the Swedish labour market. I perceived that the Moderates were interested in discussing this. Now that the agreement in principle is in place, you turn around and say that the most important thing was not to lower the cost for the employer but to reduce wages in the Swedish labour market. This is a very important message for the voters in the run-up to the September elections.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-629	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me what measures, in addition to those already implemented or announced by me and the government, will increase the number of voluntary returns and what measures, in addition to those already implemented or announced, we intend to take to increase the number of expulsion orders executed. In order to maintain a long-term sustainable and humane migration policy, it is crucial that persons who, following a legally secure examination for asylum reasons, have received a expulsion decision as quickly as possible return to their country of origin or to another country. The large number of asylum seekers in 2015 is expected to increase the number of returnees in the coming years. Achieving a more effective return is an important issue for the government, and a number of measures have therefore been taken. Some of the new provisions have recently entered into force, others are still under preparation. A return shall take place primarily on its own. However, as a last resort, there must be the possibility of also implementing a removal decision under coercion. The ability to enforce a forced removal decision is an important incentive to increase the return that takes place on its own. The government has therefore taken several measures to increase both the return of self-embarkation and that of coercion. Among other things, the Government has assessed that there is an increased need for detention places in the country. For this reason, in May 2016 the Government commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to extend the country's detention to 100 seats from 1 October 2016. This means an increase of 40 percent, from 257 to 357 places. The Government is now providing additional funds to the Migration Agency for the creation of even more detention sites – SEK 114 million for 2018, SEK 199 million for 2019 and then SEK 76 million annually. The increasing allocation of funds provides the conditions for about 200 additional seats. On 1 November 2017, several legislative amendments entered into force that will, among other things, contribute to a clearer division of responsibilities between the authorities with regard to the enforcement of expulsion decisions. For example, we have now introduced the possibility for the Police Authority to return an enforcement case to the Migration Agency if it turns out that there are conditions for voluntary return. The Police Authority is now also given the same conditions as the Migration Agency to take children into custody to carry out a deportation that can be carried out immediately. In addition, a legislative amendment is currently being prepared which will allow the Police Authority to check through workplace inspections that employers do not use persons who do not have the necessary permits for stay and work. This amendment is planned to enter into force this spring. The study on a more effective return was submitted on 29 November. The investigation proposes, among other things, that the Police Authority in connection with internal foreigner control be given increased opportunities to take fingerprints, and to take care of passports or other identity documents. The investigation also proposes measures aimed at combating abuse of the Migration Agency's travel documents. The proposals will now be submitted for consultation. In parallel with the work under way at national level, the Government supports the EU's efforts, including measures for the more effective application of common return legislation, the promotion of self-return, the strengthening of the role of Frontex and improved cooperation with third countries on readmission. Sweden is also working bilaterally to promote a more effective return. For example, the Government is following up on the application of the Memorandum of Understanding that Sweden signed with Afghanistan in autumn 2016. It is too early to assess the impact of the reported measures and thus also too early to assess the need for further measures. The government is following developments in this area very closely and is, if necessary, prepared to act. That's my answer.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-637	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to start by saying that I find it nice that the answers to the interpellations are comprehensive. It has not always been that way over the years, but I think it is good. This is an important and worrying issue, which I believe we have not talked about for the last time in this House. It's not the first time either, I'd say. During this parliamentary term, I have asked a couple of interpellations and questions on this theme – the shadow society that is currently spreading in Sweden. A brief background: In five years, the Migration Agency estimates that more than 60 000 expulsion cases will be handed over to the police, and in 50 000 of these cases it is about people who have deviated. That is the starting point for this discussion – 60 000 expulsion cases to the police. However, that is not the whole truth. In fact, some 20 000 expulsion cases are already on the police table today. It is unclear where all these people are, but unfortunately a large part of them are still in Sweden. Moreover, over the last three years, we have time-barred about 11 000 cases. In total, these figures mean that within a small number of years, based on the forecast provided by the Migration Board itself, we risk having up to 80 000 or perhaps 90 000 people living in Sweden without permission. We have never before seen such a shadow society. In relation to our population, this is something completely new. I wonder whether there is even another country in Europe that has been able to see such a shadow society emerge in the same way. All international experience shows that such shadow societies are very difficult to overcome once they are in place. It is about being clear and consistent even before the problems have been created. I think that is the only way to avoid this. Mr President, I would like to I described what is now taking place as deeply worrying, and it is probably at a disadvantage. We also see that politics has not been involved here at all. We see that voluntary return is expected to increase next year but that it is expected to decrease again thereafter. The government has highlighted the internal controls on foreigners, which have fallen in number in recent years. The peak year 2012 saw 42 000 internal checks on foreigners, while only 19 000 were carried out last year. Today we do not even know – police statistical reporting does not work, so we cannot even say how many internal checks are carried out today. It is extremely strange when this area is to be so prioritised. We also see how forced return does not develop as we wish either. Last year, the police carried out only 3,700 requests from the Finnish Immigration Service. It is thus a decrease from 2012, when the corresponding figure was 5 750. We have a problem picture that is worse than we've ever seen before. We have a return that doesn't work. Even after the Minister has drawn me, is this really enough to face these problems?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-648	Mr President, I would like to Without in any way confirming your figures, Johan Forssell, I would like to begin by confirming your concern about the emerging shadow society. I think it is important that both the government and the parliament see this. This is a huge challenge for Swedish society. We have stood for Europe's absolute highest reception of asylum seekers. In four years we have received 300 000 people who have applied for asylum in Sweden. I know that me and Johan Forssell agree that a yes is a yes and that a no is a no – we both use that wording. This means, of course, that the reception of asylum is important, but it also means that return is effective and functions satisfactorily. In 2016, some 20 000 people returned, who had been refused their application. 16,400 did it on their own. Just as Johan Forssell says, 3,700 cases were executed by force. In 2017, the figures have gone down. Until now, more than 10,000 people have returned. Seven hundred of them have done it on their own. The remaining part has been carried out by coercion. We know some explanations for this. We know that fewer decisions have been taken in 2017 because they are more complicated cases. A priority was agreed on the very high level of asylum applications. A priority was made, which means that we now have to deal with the more complex applications. I would say that this is an extremely important issue for the government. One concern is that people who have received rejection decisions do not participate in the return and that many actually deviate. My opinion is firm. There is a need for a wide range of actions. I've pointed out some of them. I would also like to point out the incentive, the means, available to encourage individuals to return on their own, namely a re-establishment aid. It is part of making it possible for people to take the initiative for a return themselves. There is also support in place: a reintegration through the ERIN project, which is an active support to enable the individual to perhaps start his/her own business, enter the labour market or study and so on. I think that's exactly how we have to work. It is about the control side and about order and order. It is about further exchanges between authorities, which the government has opened up to. And it is a question of stimulating a return, so that people have the opportunity to return to their country of origin when they have no reason for asylum. That order is important to maintain.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-654	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with what the Minister said. If you have no grounds for protection, if you are not a refugee, you should return to your home country. That is precisely why I am concerned about the new path taken by the government in practical action. There's a yes still a yes. But a "no" should now be: perhaps later. I think it is precisely this ambiguity that is laying the foundations for the shadow society that is now growing at a rapid pace. With the decision which the government has said it wants to take in the future and which is linked to the very unaccompanied people, we see more and more stories about people who have been rejected and who should return home but who are now putting their hope in this amnesty-like solution. I believe that this will further exacerbate the already major problems we see with shadow society. It is a decision in the completely wrong direction. The question is not new. As I said, I have had interpellation debates with the former Minister for Migration. When I put the answers next to each other, I find that they are very similar. I feel like we've lost almost a year. There are still a few more detention places – it was already just over a year ago. Then there's the investigation into workplace checks. That is a good thing, but it is quite clear that it is not enough. Had that been enough, we would not have seen projections from the Migration Board of 60 000 to depart, plus the many thousands that we already have today. There needs to be a completely different commitment, I would say, to these issues. Saying things in Parliament's speaker's chair is a good start, but it must also be something concrete. I would therefore like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to present to the Government some proposals that I have put forward to the former Minister of Migration without being heard. I'd be happy to repeat them. The limitation period is very short today. It is a matter of four years – in Dublin cases it is 18 months, but we are not over it in the same way. I think that time needs to be extended considerably. It cannot be that you can go underground for four years and then apply again. In addition, very few people receive a residence permit. It would be very welcome if we tightened up there. We have a number of red-green municipalities in Sweden that have been involved in providing support to people who are in this shadow society. So it is said: Go underground and break the law! Then I'll give you money. One can think about how crystal clear it is on the political side. Internal immigration controls need to be expanded. That is undoubtedly the case. Detention sites also need to be expanded. Looks like the government's in on that. I welcome that. We need to strengthen the regulatory framework as to who can be detained. We simply need to simplify it and allow for more arrests than we do today. These are some things I want to record to the government. As I said, I've done it before without hearing it, but better late than never. I hope that the government can take this on board.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-661	Mr President, I would like to I am not surprised that in this interpellation debate Johan Forssell also chooses to argue against the government's recent proposal to give the unaccompanied ones who have been waiting for a very long time and who came in autumn 2015 an opportunity for a temporary residence permit for studies. It is people who have a rejection and who are in the country. It's really exactly the group of people Johan Forssell is arguing for – he's worried that they'll end up in a shadow society. But the government, which sees the reality, has made the assessment that the government needs to present a concrete proposal here. I do not know what reality Johan Forssell sees. I hear the opposition. Johan Forssell sees a reality by saying no to the government's proposal. The Center Party clearly sees another reality. I have not yet heard any comment from the Liberals and Christian Democrats about their picture of the reality that we have in Sweden today. However, I hear in the rhetoric that Johan Forssell expresses his concern about the shadow society, but he does not want to contribute to finding common solutions. The government, as I have reported, has taken steps– a great deal is going on. Johan Forssell addresses the internal controls on foreigners. It gives me an excellent opportunity to say that the other day I had the pleasure of receiving the investigation into a more effective return to counter the abuse of travel documents. In the investigator's report, there are a number of concrete and constructive proposals that would increase the possibility of taking fingerprints and taking care of passports and other identity documents. At all, these are measures aimed at combating the misuse of travel documents. It's part of it. But, as I have said, in order for us to be able to fully manage a responsibility for what Sweden has stood up for – to protect the right of asylum – a proper toolbox with a number of different parts that act in collaboration is required. I see that there will be concern for Johan Forssell because his party has proposed limiting the right of asylum. Then we have a completely different Sweden, and we have a completely different playing field. There I feel a great deal of confidence in the fact that I have to assume that there is a broad participation in the Swedish Parliament in order for us to have a well-functioning right to asylum. But it requires order, and it requires a number of powerful tools for it to work well. That is also the case with regard to return.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-665	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Migration seems to want to talk more about the Moderates than about the social problem, and it is rather symptomatic of the government's handling of this issue. It is easy for the Minister to stand and talk about what the Alliance thinks and thinks. We have a little different starting points in this; it is no secret. On the other hand, I do not think anyone has understood what the Minister for Migration really thinks about the issue of unaccompanied minors. Heléne Fritzon herself has spent a lot of time and effort in recent weeks arguing, in one way I think, with credit to the Swedish people why what the government is now doing in this area is wrong, which is why it runs counter to the principle that a yes should be a yes and a no a no and that it also undermines the right of asylum. With Heléne Fritzon as Minister for Migration, there have been not only many cross-sections. They have also gone impressively fast. Return to the question: 60 000 expulsion cases will be handed over to the police in the coming years. Internal immigration controls have been reduced at a very rapid rate. Today we do not even know how many are happening, because the statistics have failed. Voluntary return appears to be declining in the coming years, and forced return has decreased since 2012. Yet nothing new comes from the government. That is the same answer that I heard in this House last year and the year before. The problem, then, is not what the government says, but that the words are not matched by concrete action. Then I hear that the Moderates do not want to help find solutions to this. I think I made myself clear. I put forward four concrete proposals which I have highlighted in the past and shared without being heard. I did this again, and I can also leave them on paper if necessary. The Minister for Migration is very welcome to take care of himself!
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-671	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Johan Forssell for the interpellation. My starting point was that if Johan Forssell intervenes because he wants to say that the government is doing nothing on the issue of return, I hope, in some sort of democracy, that Johan Forssell is also prepared to stand up for the Moderates' proposal on how to view the right of asylum, which is no longer supported. It is quite reasonable that I should also be able to point that out in the debate. I note that we have a huge responsibility both to safeguard the right of asylum and to ensure that we have a well-functioning return. That work requires that we have order. It also requires us to review and constantly monitor that the regulations we have work well. I think that in this interpellation debate I have presented a variety of measures, both measures taken by the government and measures that we will analyse and prepare for the investigations we have also received. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, the government is following this issue very intensively and very closely. We are always prepared to take action when we need to relate to reality.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-675	Mr President, I would like to I have received another interpellation from Johan Forssell, who has asked me what I and the Government intend to do to shorten the processing times for groups for which asylum reasons are lacking and what measures we intend to take to ensure that young Moroccan citizens do not live on the street in the asylum process. The Finnish Immigration Service was tasked with presenting a plan for shortening the processing of asylum cases in both the short and the long term, for example through early sorting of cases by categories, such as manifestly unfounded applications, presumptions of consent, potential refusals and transfers under the Dublin Regulation. The new processing process of the Finnish Immigration Service is now gradually being carried out in the operations. The average duration of proceedings for all categories of unaccompanied minors is 557 days but considerably shorter for unaccompanied minors from Morocco, where the average duration of proceedings is 197 days. In the case of manifestly unfounded applications, the average processing time is 30 days for all cases and 63 days for unaccompanied minors. So far this year, 215 unaccompanied minors from Morocco have applied for asylum, making Morocco the largest group of unaccompanied minors. A majority of these are not granted a residence permit. Many deviate during the ongoing asylum process. In view of this problem, the Government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to establish a knowledge centre on unaccompanied minors and young people, which was established in April 2017. The activities of the Knowledge Centre are aimed at those working in social and health services. The Knowledge Centre shall gather and disseminate knowledge about unaccompanied minors and young people, develop collaboration between authorities and clarify how laws and rules are to be applied. The government has also made demands in regulatory letters for the authorities to cooperate on these issues. For example, Stockholm, where the Police Authority, the Migration Agency and the Social Services have developed a cooperation plan to streamline work on issues concerning unaccompanied minors. The Police Authority and the City of Stockholm also work together with outreach activities. The study on more effective return submitted its report on 29 November. The investigation proposes, among other things, that the Police Authority in connection with internal foreigner control be given increased opportunities to take fingerprints, and to take care of passports or other identity documents. The purpose of the study is, among other things, to identify young people and thus be able to provide support for vulnerable minors. The proposals will now be submitted for consultation. The government is following developments and, if necessary, is prepared to take further action.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-681	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this answer, too, Minister. After all, we have just talked about return in migration policy, an area that does not work. This is unfortunately an interpellation a bit on the same theme. It is another subject, but it is an area that does not work as well as it should, and it is also an area in which the government has made commitments earlier in the parliamentary term or described that this will be resolved. Unfortunately, and I am really saying, unfortunately, the reality has changed. It is true that in 2017, more children from Morocco, without guardians, applied for asylum in Sweden than in 2016. I say this because there is a picture in the debate that the opposite is true. But this is not the case, but between January and October this year the Migration Agency has registered 230 individuals from Morocco, which is about 100 more than in the previous year. At the same time, there are tasks – I am well aware, it varies a little – that up to 800 minors from Morocco are currently living in Sweden. This can be done if you seek asylum and are in an asylum process. However, very few in this group are granted a residence permit. I think it is only 3% over the last two years. It is therefore a very, very small percentage that is granted a residence permit, and there are unfortunately too many who, after having received a decision, still choose to stay in Sweden without legal rights, in violation of our laws and regulations. According to the Swedish Immigration Service's latest monthly statistics, which came as late as yesterday, the processing times in Sweden generally increase. What I can tell is the average processing time for an asylum case over 600 days. It's a massive increase. This is worrying, partly for that group of individuals, who live a vulnerable life in Sweden when they are staying here without legal rights, partly because we know that in the wake there are problems with vulnerability, third person becomes victims of crime etcetera. It's a big crime. We have seen several recent examples when a third person is clearly affected. In previous discussions, the Government has pointed out the agreement that has been concluded and the discussion that has been conducted between Sweden and Morocco as well as the efforts with the help of Swedish funds to finance on-site activities in Morocco to facilitate the return or readmission. However, it does not seem to have produced very significant results, given that 800 people are still in the country. There are even more people in this group who do not have protection reasons. In this area too, I wonder, the Minister for Migration, whether there are any more concrete proposals in the future on what should be done to overcome this.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-688	Madam President, I would like I can broadly confirm Johan Forssell's figures. I can possibly add that, so far this year, the Migration Agency has decided 417 cases concerning unaccompanied minors and young people from Morocco. 29 has been granted a residence permit. That is just under 7%. These are figures without Dublin cases. It is quite correct that a relatively large number of people from Morocco come from the group of unaccompanied minors and young people. A large proportion of them have no grounds for protection. Johan Forssell is critical of the government's work and says he has previously received the answer that we are working with the dialogue with Morocco. I can confirm that we from the Swedish side have worked very hard, not least my fellow minister Morgan Johansson, in order for Morocco to receive its own citizens. The background is that several of the young Moroccans who have claimed to be children are actually adults. But the Swedish cooperation with Morocco is producing results. It's important to see it, too. Morocco is receiving more and more of its adult citizens. Let's look at what that figure was in 2016. At that time, 35 cases were accepted by Morocco for reception. The figure for 2017, i.e. this year, which is accepted for a return is now up to 288 individuals and cases. I think the figures speak for themselves. They underline the importance of the government working on agreements and dialogues with the countries, in this case Morocco, to which we have reason to strengthen the return. I know that Johan Forssell is well acquainted with the regime that exists with regard to unaccompanied minors, namely that for a return to be possible, an orderly reception is required in the home country. When this is not possible, when children are at risk of harm, a return is not carried out. Therefore, Sweden – we basically want the return and reception to work – has increased the resources to the National Board of Institutional Affairs. I would like to emphasise that cooperation with Morocco is deepened and improved. The Swedish starting point is that children should also be able to return to Morocco in the long term.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-694	Madam President, I would like There are still 800 people in this group who are in Sweden who do not have protection reasons. At the same time, we are seeing the search pressure increase. It's problematic. If you have protection reasons, you must be granted asylum. But we know at the same time that they are few. There have perhaps been a few more in the past year, but for 2016 – 2017 it is 3 percent. We also know that the return does not work either. Of course, if the return will work better in the future, it will be positive. However, I am a bit refined in this area because I remember that the government has hit the big drum before. Not only the former Minister for Migration, but also the former Minister for Home Affairs, has described great successes. I still find it a little difficult to understand, given the problem picture we see in society today, exactly what those successes are. It's about the return as a whole. A return that does not work is a subset. I described some of our proposals in the previous interpellation debate. They are, not least, about tightening up the short limitation period today, about making a strong effort on the police and carrying out more internal checks on aliens, about expanding detention centres and changing the rules for arrest. Finally, it is a matter of ensuring that Swedish taxpayers' money is not used to finance the livelihood of people who violate Swedish law and reside in Sweden without legal rights. In the long term, I believe that the problems underscore what we have said from the Moderates. The time has now come to think more long-term about what migration policy should look like. We have proposed that the EU circle together should move towards a purely quota-refugee system where asylum trials are carried out outside the EU's borders. In a much better way than at present, those most in need of protection can be selected. It can be questioned whether it is always the people who have the greatest reason, who feel the greatest vulnerability, who have the opportunity to come to Sweden or if there are many other people. This group shows that few have protection reasons. I would like to emphasise that such a change is in line with the right of asylum. We don't want to send anyone to an insecure place. This is exactly the same principle that the Swedish Government has pushed for in Europe. Let us look at the Turkey agreement, or for that matter the Dublin principle. The claim that this would be contrary to the right of asylum is completely wrong and unsound. I am surprised to hear it in such a debate. In a previous reply, Morgan Johansson has stated that the State Department Board can get more money and thus increase the number of locked facilities. Such an initiative has not been referred to by the Minister for Migration in his response to me today. Is the government taking any measures in line with this?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-701	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell reflects on the fact that I asked a question on the Moderates' proposal on the right of asylum. It was in the previous interpellation debate, but we can take the issue in this debate as well. The background on my part and the government's side is clear. The government stands up for the right of asylum, and we stand up for the quota system – a common UN system. What I can understand and hear in the Swedish parliament is no other party, other than the Moderates, who think that one should undermine the right of asylum in favour of only a quota refugee system. When the war in Syria broke out in 2015, it would not have been easy to tell asylum seekers that they are allowed to apply and make their trial outside the EU's borders. That debate will continue. I welcome the fact that Johan Forssell is making interpellations even if he claims to be refined by the government's response. I hope that Johan Forssell will nevertheless note that, in response to the concrete question of how we deal with the problem in relation to Morocco today, I have stated that the dialogue with Morocco from the Swedish side, on the part of the government, is a success. Last year we had 35 accepted dossiers in which Morocco said: It is our citizens; we shall take responsibility for them. This year we have 288 accepted cases with Morocco. It is nothing more than confirmation that cooperation, cooperation and dialogue with the countries that many leave in order to seek asylum in Sweden without having protection reasons make these countries actually take responsibility. That work will continue the government in every way. I am, of course, pleased if we can stand together because this is the way relations with Morocco or other countries have to be built in order for us to get an order so that young people do not seek asylum in our country or other countries without having protection needs and end up in a situation where they are suffering. We shall in every way take responsibility for avoiding that. With that, I thank you for the interpellation debate and for the floor.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-707	Madam President, I would like We've got one round left. This can be considered by undermining the right of asylum. The quota system is what helps people in greatest need. That is what we want to develop. What we are seeing today, for example in this area, is a system in which very many people come without asylum reasons who have paid for a trip here, who are not refugees and who then do not return. It is to change exactly this that we are presenting this proposal. It is in stark contrast to the policy pursued by the government – the government which, after saying the exact opposite for a long time, is now proposing that we grant residence permits in a legally insecure and arbitrary manner to people who do not have grounds for protection. But more about it on another occasion. It is positive if it is that more people in this group follow Swedish law and return home. However, the problem here is that more people are still coming than before. The basic problem – the 800 people who stay here without a permit, who live in vulnerability and who very often expose third parties to serious crimes and criminality – does not seem to be reducing significantly, at least not in the near future, and I am concerned about that. I'd like to point out to the Minister for Migration that I'm a little refined. I have been asking these kinds of questions and interpellations for years, and I get about the same answer: we have done something, and now we will consider something else. A year later, you're still considering that. The government's activity in this area may not have been the greatest, to put it mildly. I would like to follow up on what Morgan Johansson said – that the National Board of Institutional Affairs should receive more money and that the number of locked facilities should be increased. I do not find this in the answer here today and wonder how the government sees it.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-714	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the space for another final post! It's a matter of keeping track of the lines. One should not doubt the activity of the government and Sweden, Johan Forssell. I believe that anyone who asks for it sees in what has been done since 2015 that Sweden has taken a very big responsibility. I also think it is a good thing that we have such a broad foundation in the Swedish parliament with the agreement that has been made between the government and the bourgeois parties. It also came into being at a time when we needed joint responsibility. I am the first to regret that Johan Forssell says that it is deeply unfortunate that we have a system in which people without protection need to seek asylum and that Johan Forssell's argument is in stark contrast to the attitude of the government. I think it should be a bigger problem for Johan Forssell that there is a sharp contrast on the bourgeois side in terms of how one views migration policy in the future. I can only call for us to continue jointly to take responsibility for both the fundamental right of asylum and return, as well as a long-term sustainable migration policy. The Government does so in a number of measures and also in the budget that the Government presents to Parliament.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-719	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me how I intend to act in order for the municipalities that have claims on the Migration Agency to receive their legitimate payments and if I think it is reasonable that there are so many legal proceedings going on between municipalities and the Migration Agency. The large increase in the number of asylum seekers in 2014 and 2015 led to a sharp increase in municipal applications for compensation. The previously administratively demanding compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors by municipalities contributed to delays in processing. The system led to a long delay from the actual cost until the municipalities seek compensation and then finally get paid by the Migration Agency. In order to increase the efficiency of payments to municipalities, the Government already introduced a new compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors by municipalities on 1 July 2017. The new compensation system is based to a greater extent on flat rates which are paid out automatically without the municipality having to apply for the compensation. The introduction of the new compensation system has increased the efficiency of payments to municipalities for costs incurred from 1 July 2017. The municipalities have until 31 December 2017 the possibility to apply for compensation for costs incurred before the new compensation system was introduced. Among other things, in order to be able to pay out older claims for compensation at a higher rate, it is proposed to increase the autumn 2017 amending budget by SEK 6.3 billion of the appropriation in Category 8 that will finance the state compensations to municipalities and county councils. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that larger amounts can be paid out to municipalities and county councils in 2017 than previously assumed, including through direct instalments. The final payments mean that the Migration Agency pays out a larger proportion of the compensation applied for in the cases received and not yet closed. Through this management, the Migration Agency will thus be able to pay out a larger share of compensation claims in 2017 than previously forecasted. Instead, verification and the usual handling of the claims for compensation to be distributed will take place in 2018. That was my initial answer.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-725	Madam President, I would like In many parts of the country, municipalities express anger and disappointment at the non-payment of compensation from the Finnish Immigration Service. Most of Sweden's municipalities have done great things to solve the extraordinary situation that the large refugee flows brought. Their efforts for asylum seekers and for the special reception of unaccompanied minors are, of course, to be replaced by the State, that is, the Migration Agency. Several allowances for asylum seekers and for the reception of refugees are paid in arrears, as the Minister says in his reply. You have to apply, and now there are also flat-rate payments. However, not only do payments delay unacceptably long, but applications are now repeatedly rejected. In some cases, municipalities receive only part of the amounts applied for, despite full data and for the municipalities' obvious claims, which are then excluded. During the year, municipalities have witnessed a large number of total rejections. It is often rejections that are appealed, and it is not often that the municipalities win in the Administrative Court of Appeal. But it costs a lot of resources and time. In some municipalities, for example in my municipality of Flen, they have had to hire a person who is an expert in recovering money and who leads the legal process for the municipality in order to get the money back. Does the Minister think it reasonable for the municipalities to act as a bank for the state? For my part, I find this totally unacceptable. This is also the view of all municipalities that are out there with so much money. As early as 2016, SKL wrote to the Migration Agency: It falls on the government. However, the Migration Agency must ensure that there are systems and procedures to manage the existing compensation system as efficiently as possible. And, not least, care must be taken to ensure that there are administrative resources to the extent required. SKL believes that these tasks were not given sufficient priority, as we see signs that debt to municipalities and landpaths is now increasing rapidly. ..................................................... It still does. It's been paid out a lot. At the same time, however, we have not caught up with the large volumes and balances that exist. This creates, among other things, a lack of liquidity in the municipalities. This means that many municipalities have to borrow money in order to manage salary payments and other things. This means that the municipalities will have additional problems and costs to deal with. The delays also give rise to uncertainty as to whether the municipalities will receive the compensation they have invoiced or not. It is very difficult for the municipalities to budget ahead. They do not know when they will get any money and whether they will get what they have applied for. SKL was very busy last year, 2016, to help the municipalities in this. I would have liked them to have stood further on the barricades in 2017. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's figures, there are still claims of over 10 billion. The Finnish Immigration Service has debts to a large number of municipalities. For example, it has a debt to Karlskrona Municipality of SEK 224 million. It is a very large part of the net total. It has not received all the money for 2015, and the debt has increased by SEK 44 million in 2017. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed this. The audit shows that municipalities have less liquidity due to late payments. Their survey shows that almost one in five municipalities has had to borrow money. For almost one in ten municipalities, the late compensations have meant that the municipality has not been employed or postponed. Does the Minister think that this is a reasonable way of dealing with our municipalities?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-733	Madam President, I would like I've put a similar interpellation. It has been placed on 19 December for some strange reason, so we will see each other again. Nevertheless, I am going to go into this debate today and comment on the issues. I had a similar interpellation debate just over a year ago with Morgan Johansson, your predecessor. When I wrote my interpellation, the debt to the municipal sector was over SEK 20 billion. In the debate at that time on 21 October 2016, Morgan Johansson noted with satisfaction that the debt had fallen to 9.6 billion. Then he promised to me that the Migration Board would probably be in phase at the beginning of next year, that is, at the beginning of this year 2017. Now it doesn't really look like that. When I wrote my new interpellation, the debt had increased to over 10 billion. So it is higher than it was a year ago. I find that quite remarkable. I can agree with what Lotta Finstorp said before here. It is very difficult for the municipalities to plan. I had a group meeting with my own municipality of residence, Mark's municipality, yesterday. It stated that it is almost impossible. There are so many loose ends in this that you don't even know if or when you're going to get paid. One example was compensation for the transferer's activities that lags in some strange way, and no one knows how to get paid. It is very difficult for the municipality to make budgets and know what kind of money you have to move around with, plus that unfortunately in our municipality you also have to borrow to manage the day-to-day. When I debated with Morgan Johansson last year, I proposed to him the introduction of a system of a conto payment in accordance with local authorities' demands, which then could examine the supporting documents and subsequently clear if something was not right. Morgan Johansson then stated that I was completely out cycling and that it was completely impossible to do this. It was too complicated, would entail additional work and also be too uncertain for the Migration Agency. One could not know if that would be true, and it would be easy for the municipalities to demand too much money. I note that already on 1 July 2017 clearly what was completely impossible worked in October 2016. I find that very strange. On the other hand, it is not clear from the reply of the Ombudsman whether the a conto payment system applies only to unaccompanied minors or whether it applies to all the costs of receiving the municipalities. I would like answers to that in the debate. I'm not quite clear on that. Like Lotta Finstorp, I think it is a bit obscene that the state conducts proceedings against the municipalities. The municipalities have it tough enough today to take care of all the new arrivals. In one municipality in my constituency, the municipal director reported a little that the Migration Board had called in the evening and said that tomorrow there will be twelve young people you must take care of. He would have said, "That's impossible." We don't have anywhere to make of them. We don't care about that," says the Migration Agency. The next day, there were 12 people to take care of. This allowed the municipal manager to rush off to try to find something, and they bought a villa that could be used for this. It was done with a day's notice. That is the situation of our municipalities today. The least you can ask is that the state at least does not process the municipalities on these issues and make sure to pay the money on time. I would like to ask the Minister in particular about the compensation system of a conto payments. Does it apply to all types of benefits from the Migration Agency, or does it apply only to unaccompanied minors?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-741	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jan Ericson, for participating in the interpellation debate! I asked the same question as you if it was not possible to deal with all three debates this evening. But I think we'll have to come back on December 19th. We've been looking at the Migration Agency's debts just for unaccompanied minors. We'll have to get back to the whole group. We can do that on 19 December. With regard to the compensation system, I would like to say the following to Lotta Finstorp. The background is that in 2014 and 2015 we had a huge increase in the number of asylum seekers but above all of unaccompanied minors. Sweden was the country in Europe that received the most. It turned out then that the compensation system that Sweden had at that time did not work, and it was, as is well known, another government. It became costly, and it was not appropriate. It was a difficult-to-understand regulatory framework. It was administratively burdensome, and it could take up to one year for municipalities to seek compensation. As I am sure you know, I have had reason to look at it from the local level, and also in a municipality that has provided a very high level of reception. I fully understand the questions asked. It gives me a very good opportunity to now be able to account for the work of the Government and the Migration Agency in getting the payments down in every way so that we end up in a situation where both money and time are related to the applications received. The system has now been transformed into a more modern, more flat-rate system. It is likely to work in a completely different way. We still have backlogs on old payments. These are essentially the ones we are dealing with until the end of the year. I can take this opportunity to update with the most recent figures of the day. It has until now been paid out 37 1⁄2 billion to the municipalities. There are still 6 billion. This means that what we call the balance – and that is certainly what both Jan Ericson and Lotta Finstorp refer to – at the turn of the year according to the forecast will be between 4 and 5 billion. Of course, no one would be happier than me if I could say that the balance was now clear. This is not enough time for the turn of the year, but it has been a very quick trip during the autumn. That is, of course, a good thing, because this is extremely important news to the municipalities. So it is the time until the end of the year to apply for the older costs, and then we go into the new one altogether. Then we will have a much simpler model for both municipalities and the Migration Agency to relate to. I am glad that we can abandon the old, difficult-to-manage payment system.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-750	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an important debate. I have great respect for the large volumes that came, especially of unaccompanied minors. The situation has, of course, been extraordinary for both the state and the municipalities. The late payments are a problem, but the legal processes that are now going on for many municipalities are certainly not okay. The municipalities have spent large costs to set up and work together with the state. Then you will be denied the applications for the money that you will eventually be entitled to receive. It's not decent to do that. My municipality of residence Flen is very hard hit by this – both by missing payments and by ongoing legal proceedings. We have a reception unit for decades in Flen and a pride that we have a good reception for refugees and a good cooperation between the state and the municipality. It is clear who does what and so on. It is now in despair on the part of the social services. The Finnish Immigration Service's activities affect the Social Welfare Board in many different ways, for example regarding family conflicts among asylum seekers and the municipality's responsibility to arrange sheltered housing. This is where it is often rejected, and the municipality is then allowed to pursue a process and get the right in the Administrative Court of Appeal. Jan Ericson spoke about his municipality of residence. In Flen's municipality, we arranged a transit accommodation for unaccompanied residents in just 24 hours. Even in this respect, it is a major problem to get the money back. Sometimes people in the municipality say: Why does the municipality not send this to the Kronofogden for recovery? Why should we, small vulnerable municipalities, act as a bank for the state? It's somewhere where you end up in the pride of having a good refugee reception. A major problem is all the time required for a slim social administration. This money, 60 million, which the municipality is now waiting to receive, represents approximately 7% of the municipality's entire budget. It is incredibly tough to be able to plan for elderly care and for children who need to be taken care of and come to HVB homes. During a week recently, the municipality received 17 rejection decisions from the Finnish Immigration Service. Of these, a number are then right and have received money back. Often you sit in the social services and wonder: Should we afford to bring in substitutes? Will we be able to afford to expand the activities needed today? The social manager of Flen Municipality, Jukka Taipale, says: What happens next time if there is a large influx of asylum seekers to Flen? We can't do it the way we did this time. It is incredibly serious when the municipalities feel that they can no longer do this because they cannot afford it. One in five municipalities must borrow money to pay wages because the payment is delayed, which is a problem in itself. In addition, the state then says that the application for the money is rejected and then you have to deal with legal proceedings. Business with the state should be safe and predictable, but today it is exactly the opposite. I believe that the vast majority of those affected understand that there may be some delay in payments due to the heavy workload of the Migration Agency. But it is the taxpayers who have to pay the bill, and it is local residents who are affected. We do not need to have that debate. It's just unnecessary, because everyone's gone out of the house to help. But the fact that the municipalities are supposed to act as a bank for the state is not okay.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-757	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for your description from reality! I respect it. I will not be able to comment on any individual municipality, and I do not really believe that Lotta Finstorp believes that it is me or a Member of Parliament who should decide which claims from a municipality are right or wrong. I hope and believe that we agree that it is the Migration Agency that will do so. However, it is extremely important that we have a good dialogue with Kommunsverige. Me and Minister Ylva Johansson recently met the leadership of the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting with Lena Micko and Anders Knape at the forefront. We had as usual, I was about to say, a good and sincere conversation. It's important. The leadership of SKL raised this particular issue. What I could account for from the government is that we are allocating extra funds for this. We are also in the middle of a transition to a new system, and there is reason for us to build this system as well as it goes together. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that there is now an opportunity in the municipalities to access the new e-service. It is a way for the Migration Agency to get ongoing information updates from the municipalities. As it has been now, with the old system, each municipality has sent in in its own way. With 290 municipalities it is clear that the applications look very different, and it is time-consuming. The e-service now offers benefits, where both municipalities and the Migration Agency will be able to follow more clearly the development of their own municipality's commitments. I can take this opportunity to say that this is an accession agreement, and we do not yet have all the municipalities involved in this. In all contexts, therefore, I try to urge you to go home and ask in your own municipality. If you get contact persons in the connection and make the system work well, you have a continuous follow-up of the events in each municipality. The consequences of this can also be better dealt with, including remuneration and the like. Lotta Finstorp asks about the legal proceedings. Just so that there is no misunderstanding, I would like to say that, as far as I am aware, there are no legal proceedings between municipalities and the Migration Agency on non-payments. However, it is – and I think this is what Lotta Finstorp describes – that when a municipality gets part of its claim rejected, it has the opportunity to appeal in court. This is a good opportunity, because, as I said, there are many municipalities involved, and applications are made in very different ways. The assessments to be made are government assessments, but the individual municipality has the possibility of review. I think we should respect this. I do not think that we could have a system in which each municipality receives exactly what they are applying for, but there must be some kind of professional assessment of what the evidence actually refers to.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-763	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a good and important debate! There's a lot of people listening to it out there. But it is not just the municipalities that are not getting paid or who have problems with this. It is also about others, such as legal agencies that have performed assignments for the Migration Agency, for example as public assistants. There were several legal agencies who contacted me when they saw that this interpellation debate would be held. They are not paid for working hours and direct expenses. Among other things, there is a problem when it comes to interpreting services, because the Agency has to pay the interpreters who have supported the public assistants, and the compensation must be paid within 30 days according to the invoice that comes from the interpreters. Since these legal agencies are out with so much money, it will be difficult for them as well in terms of liquidity. An agency with which I have had contact has outstanding claims from the Migration Agency, which represents 70% of their total outstanding claims. The number of similar desperate stories is just increasing. These are both private companies that have performed various services on behalf of the Finnish Immigration Service and municipalities that testify to time-consuming administrative follow-up procedures. It has happened that you have not been paid even though decisions have been made by the Finnish Immigration Service. That's what these people say. They're public assistants. That's not good enough. People must be paid for services rendered to the state. You still think it's a customer that you can trust and that it's safe to do business with.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-767	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Lotta Finstorp, assisted by Jan Ericson, for this interpellation debate! It's an incredibly important discussion. I am absolutely convinced that it is as Lotta says that many are following it. Every day the municipalities make fantastic contributions to the commitment we have to our asylum seekers' unaccompanied children and young people. I have a great deal of respect for that. I also have every respect for the Migration Agency and the efforts made daily to make this work in a good interaction. What I may not have mentioned in the debate is that very large resources have been allocated to the Migration Agency to do this. Not only does the government add the extra 6.3 billion in the autumn change budget, but it has also, even if the Migration Agency is to reduce its operations as reception decreases, changed up many times for the management of compensation claims from the municipalities. When we look at what it looked like in 2016, we see that they had just under 40 years of work for this, and today there are over 200 years of work for this. This testifies a little to what efforts are actually being made to ensure that a payment of the claims made to the Finnish Immigration Service can be made. It should, of course, apply to all parts, including those mentioned here in the debate.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-771	Madam President, I would like This is an interpellation debate that is similar to the debate we have just had, but Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I believe that the Migration Agency will be ready with the payments to the municipalities before the end of the year and whether I and the Government intend to take steps to ensure that the Migration Agency makes the delayed payments. The large increase in the number of asylum seekers in 2014 and 2015 led to a sharp increase in municipal applications for compensation. The previously administratively demanding compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors by municipalities contributed to delays in processing. The system led to a long delay from the actual cost until the municipalities seek compensation and then finally get paid by the Migration Agency. In order to increase the efficiency of payments to municipalities, the Government introduced on 1 July 2017 a new compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors by municipalities. The new compensation system is based to a greater extent on flat rates which are paid out automatically without the municipality having to apply for the compensation. The introduction of the new compensation system has increased the efficiency of payments to municipalities for costs incurred from 1 July 2017. The municipalities have until 31 December 2017 the possibility to apply for compensation for costs incurred before the new compensation system was introduced. Among other things, in order to be able to pay out older claims for compensation at a higher rate, an increase in the autumn 2017 amending budget is proposed by SEK 6.3 billion of the appropriation in Category 8 that will finance the state compensations to municipalities and county councils. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that they can pay larger amounts to municipalities and county councils in 2017 than previously adopted, including through direct instalments. The final payments mean that the Migration Agency pays out a larger proportion of the compensation applied for in the cases received and not yet closed. Through this management, the Migration Agency will thus be able to pay out a larger part of the compensation claims in 2017 than previously forecasted. Instead, verification and the usual handling of the claims for compensation to be distributed will take place in 2018. That is my initial answer.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-777	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I noticed that this was exactly the same answer that Lotta Finstorp received. I also have some repetitions in my speech that I will try to present in a different way, but I do not want in any way to detract from the importance of that issue. We should not forget that the Migration Agency has handled its debts to the municipalities in a very bad way. This has caused a lot of problems for the municipalities and continues to do so for most municipalities, not only in Skåne as my interpellation was about, but also in the rest of the country. According to the latest figures I have, the state still owes the municipalities 10 billion. It's an enormous amount of money that the municipalities get to sleep with. In my municipality, Kävlinge, we have had to borrow money to pay the employees' wages. Kävlinge is still a municipality with very good finances. There are many who are much worse off. My colleague, Lotta Finstorp, asked the question, and I can also do so, whether the municipalities are supposed to act as a bank for the state. It's immoral. It is not enough that the Migration Agency has the intention to pay. They said last year that they were working on, that the load on the system was reduced and that you would work faster, but that was not the case. The questions that arise are: What bills should municipalities ignore to pay? Or what activities should municipalities reduce? Is it school, childcare or care for the elderly? We can reverse the perspective: What happens if an individual has debts to the state? Does the state condone the individual's problems? No, it's straight to the Kronofogden. You will pay, and you will pay a juicy fine on the amount you owe. I wonder if the Minister would consider changing the system a little so that the municipalities do not submit an application that is submitted to the Finnish Immigration Service's discretion without instead sending a bill on their costs. You can have confidence that the municipalities are not trying to fool the state. We know that the Migration Board has been very credulous in other assessments, such as the age of asylum seekers, when 40-year-olds have been considered 18- or even 15-year-olds only because of what they themselves have said. It would be nice if the Migration Board could have confidence in the assessments that the municipalities make and if they did not question all the costs, in a way that they themselves consider to be almost dishonest.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-785	Madam President, I would like These are two almost identical debates. That's why I split up a little. I am listening with interest, especially to the fact that the Minister now promised that there might not be more than 4 – 5 billion left at the turn of the year. Sounds good. However, given that Morgan Johansson said last October that we would be in balance at the previous year's turn, I take the figures with a pinch of salt. I don't doubt the Minister. I'm sure she's got the data from the Migration Agency. But I don't really trust the Migration Agency on the issue. As I said, they came with misinformation at the end of last year. The large influx of asylum seekers came in autumn 2015 and spring 2016. Despite this, the regulatory framework has not been changed and easier ways of managing compensations have been found. I don't understand why it should be so complicated. We should not have to have vague regulations that lead to legal disputes about which items to receive compensation for or not. Laws and regulations from the government should be so clear that municipalities can easily assess what they will receive compensation for. With the uncertainty that prevails now – I agree with what Boriana says and as Mrs Lotta mentioned earlier – there is a risk that the municipalities will start cheaply on receiving them because they do not really know what they will be paid for. That can't be what the government wants when they send more money to the Migration Agency for reception. There is a great risk in this. I have been around in different municipalities and met with social services, talked to officials and so on. They feel an uncertainty as to what the municipalities can offer and what costs they can take on because they do not know what they are being covered for. I think the Minister should take it seriously. That cannot be the intention. I'm still a little perplexed. The Minister is now saying that she is pleased that we have a new system. However, when I asked earlier whether the new system of a conto payments and such things really applies to all forms of reception or whether it applies only to unaccompanied minors, the Minister was insecure and wanted to come back to that. Nevertheless, I get the impression that the Minister believes that we have a completely new system to replace the old one. I would like answers on whether the new system of a conto payments applies to all forms of reception, or whether it relates only to the reception of unaccompanied minors.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-791	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg, the Moderates, has made almost the same interpellation as Lotta Finstorp, the Moderates, has caused me tonight. But the tone is significantly higher. I think it is important to have a respectful and humble debate. As I said, I know this world quite well and know very well what frustration you experience and have experienced out in the municipalities. But to describe it in the way Boriana Åberg does I don't think it benefits development. I believe that what is at stake here is cooperation and cooperation. My question back to Boriana Åberg could be whether Kävlinge, her municipality, has now chosen to join the e-services agreement. In this case, the new system will provide the possibility of continuous exchange of information that will facilitate collaboration, interaction and payments to each municipality. I think it is important that we try to solve the problem together in this way. I would also like to remind Boriana Åberg that the system for which she criticizes so strongly, which was tested in 2014 and 2015 when so many came, is a system for which her government was responsible and for which this government has chosen to work away. We have chosen to let the Migration Agency come up with a new and much simpler system. I appreciate the fact that Jan Ericson has obviously worked in the past to simplify the system in the direction that has now been done. This kind of change work is important for us to be able to find good systems. Then there must be respect that it takes time. The old system had a year to search. In the autumn of 2015, there were 10,000 in one week in November. Then the system was tested. After that, we have a year to search for this. About that time, the reasoning about finding a new system also began. And a new system has been in place since summer. I do not really know how you could have managed the experience you have of the previous system that you were not satisfied with and at the same time find a new system in a faster way. Jan Ericson! I would like to reply directly to your question, and I think I have the answer. But there's a risk that I won't be able to nuance it to the full. I know that we will see each other on 19 December. Then you will also ask me about the balance of payments that remain. And I look forward to having that question on 19 December. So we will come back to that part.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-798	Madam President, I would like I am sorry if the Government perceived my tone as confrontational or rude. I didn't mean to. We can attribute that to my southern temperament. I'm very worried about the Migration Agency's debt to my municipality. I talked to the councillor today, and it's about 60 million. That's a lot of money, which the taxpayer stands for. It is my job to ensure that it does not go on beyond 31 December. I have understood it as a promise, in principle, from the Minister, that the Migration Agency will settle its debts to Kävlinge and the other municipalities. Now we will return to the question of the Finnish Immigration Service's contestation of the municipalities' costs. Lotta Finstorp spoke about her experiences. I will tell you about experiences from Skåne. Örkelljunga is a municipality that took enormous responsibility. They have been refused almost half of their claims on the Finnish Immigration Service. These debts have been incurred because the children and young people who have come to Örkelljunga have had special needs in school. Basically 100 per cent of the m who arrived have these needs because they do not have full schooling, if at all any schooling. In order to be able to work in Swedish society, with all the requirements required, you must be able to read, write and have a good education. It is therefore particularly offensive that the Migration Agency rejects, for example, the fact that these asylum seekers' children, as they are called, started their education in upper secondary school after they were 18 years of age. They will then not be covered by the Asylum Compensation Regulation. We all know about the problems with age determination. People have been tempted to say that they are younger but have since been judged to be older. However, if they have once been allowed to come to a municipality and the municipality has set aside resources to help these children or young people to lift their knowledge and education, the Migration Agency will not punish the municipality for it. It's immoral. Another reason why the request for reimbursement of costs associated with education and training is rejected is that these young people have been placed in the municipality. When they are placed in the municipality there will be no new money from above. Someone has to pay these costs. The number of young people who came in 2015 and were distributed among municipalities could not have been a surprise to the Finnish Immigration Service. It must have been possible to anticipate the additional needs and difficulties for these young people to have a good future in Sweden. The alternative is much worse: to leave them out of the education system.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-805	Madam President, I would like I'm still a little perplexed. The Minister says that today's government inherited this system from the previous government. That, of course, was the case. That was the system that used to apply. But then there were relatively few asylum seekers compared to 2015. At the time, it was also about much smaller amounts that the municipalities had in the claim. When it becomes such a large volume of asylum seekers and at the same time is about so much money, I think the government has been a bit slow to review the system to make it work. I also note that the Minister wants to reflect on the question I put to 19 December, so we will have to come back to it then. One thing we can say is that the government and the Migration Agency unfortunately shovel all the problems at the municipalities and to some extent at the county councils. It's about housing and school. The school is perhaps the biggest issue for the municipalities, just as Boriana mentions. Many of these young people have very great needs in school, and there are no staff, no interpreters, not psychologists and no special resources available in the amount that would be needed. Besides, it costs a lot of money. I mentioned good men in my first speech. It is a fairly big problem both to find good men for all young people and to pay them. It is a question that hangs very much in the air how this is to be replaced by the Migration Agency. Added to this are health care costs and costs of dental care. My specific question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to talk to the Migration Agency to make the Migration Agency understand that it is not a time to be petty, but to do the right thing quickly so that the municipalities can do a good job.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-811	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to say to Boriana Åberg that I do not want to stand here today and treat neither Kävlinges nor Örkelljunga's claim for compensation. I also do not believe that it is the intention of the Member of Parliament that we here in Parliament should decide whether the Migration Agency has assessed an application from a municipality right or wrong. What I have said in the debate and which is the government's message is that in every way in the years since the high reception in 2015– which began already in 2014– we have made great efforts to ensure that this works as well as possible with the very high reception that Sweden has had and has. In the autumn budget, the Government will already provide more than SEK 6 billion for the Migration Agency to do its utmost to manage the payments in a good way. I have also stated in the debate that we are working intensively on this. The number of employees working on the issue has multiplied. It now has a higher proportion of payments in the forecast than it had just a month ago. The payments are today in excess of SEK 44 billion. This allows the Migration Agency to reach a balance of between 4 and 5 billion at the end of the year. I would also like to emphasise that we from the government want close cooperation with the municipalities in every way. We have a good dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. We don't always think the same, and that shouldn't be the case. SKL, of course, runs the local authorities' interests in this matter and acts in every way to ensure that the government, for its part, acts to ensure that the Migration Agency is able to meet the task of paying the compensation that has to do with the older compensation system. It is important that we now put an end to this so that we can move on to the new, more flat-rate compensation system via the new e-service available to the municipalities. The government is working on the issue. Of course, we will also propose other measures if we consider that there will be a time for further action on this issue.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-816	Madam President, I would like Of course, we are not supposed to discuss individual municipalities. It is a matter of principle, and it is a matter of the whole country. But it is always good to take up a concrete example that illustrates what is said. Unless otherwise, it gives a little more credibility to the discussion. It also gives confidence in these municipalities that someone has seen that things are not working properly and is prepared to fix the problem. At the moment we cannot remedy this, but I very much hope that the good intentions expressed by the Minister will become a reality. The debate is basically about the fact that it is bad when one party, the municipalities, is imposed new obligations all the time, also with threats of sanctions, while the other party, the Migration Agency, ignores its part of the agreement. That is what is at the heart of the problem. I think it is very good that the Minister says that there is only 4 – 5 billion left of the debt to the municipalities. But I would like to know: When will the Migration Board have paid all its debts and ended up at zero? Will the Finnish Immigration Service regulate all debts without cataclysm and dishonest discussions about which costs should be attributed to whom?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-819	Madam President, I would like The final question from Boriana Åberg cannot be answered. Boriana Åberg also knows this, as the municipalities have until 31 December 2017 to submit claims and applications for compensation. What I have presented here is that the balance has been greatly reduced. The Finnish Immigration Service has ongoing work to complete the task of closing payments under the older compensation system, and this is done quickly. To conclude, I would like to thank the interpeller and those who have taken part in the debate. I also think it is a very important debate. I am very keen that it will work in a good interaction between the Migration Agency and the municipalities. I also hope that the municipalities see – and I know that they do – that asylum seekers in a municipality can become new arrivals and also become citizens. I know that most municipalities have adopted comprehensive vision programmes where you like to see the municipality grow and that you become a stronger municipality if there are more citizens. I hope that the task of welcoming new citizens from other countries in this work will be welcomed, not just as a cost. I also hope that in the future we will be able to discuss the efforts on welfare, which are so important in this context as well. Thank you for a good debate!
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-826	Madam President, I would like Christina Höj Larsen has asked me how, based on what criteria and together with which actors I intend to evaluate the need for the temporary law to apply during the last year of its validity. The law which temporarily limits the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, and which brings the Swedish acquis into line with the minimum level of EU law and international conventions, is valid for a maximum of three years, i.e. until 19 July 2019. The bill on the Temporary Act announced that the Government will make an assessment of the need for the Act to continue to apply during the last year of its validity. Such an assessment has now been made by the government, and as announced last week, the suggestion is that the temporary law, which the Parliament has endorsed, should be in force. The temporary law, together with the other measures taken by the government since autumn 2015 and political changes in other countries and within the EU, has reduced the number of asylum seekers who have applied to Sweden. However, Sweden remains one of the EU Member States with the highest number of asylum seekers in Europe per capita, and the situation of the Migration Agency and other relevant authorities is better but still strained. The large number of asylum seekers who have arrived in recent years also poses major challenges for the country's municipalities and county councils in terms of access to housing and establishment opportunities. Other circumstances to which we have to relate in our assessment of the need for the temporary law in the last year of validity are the uncertainties in our environment, including work within the EU. In her interpellation Christina Höj Larsen emphasises the role of civil society in the reception of asylum seekers. As I mentioned in my answer to Christina Höj Larsen's recent similar question, the government has an ongoing and regular dialogue with civil society for the exchange of information and experiences. Only two weeks ago, I met representatives from 15 different organisations active in asylum matters. The Government supports the objectives of migration policy set by the Riksdag. It states, not least, that it should be sustainable in the long term and that we should safeguard the right to asylum. These are two perspectives that the government is working very actively for in both Sweden and the EU. This government has shown in concrete action that we stand to try to find broad and long-term solutions to major challenges. This applies in migration policy as in other areas.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-837	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is no secret that the Left Party did not agree with the government on the temporary law. But it is not the focus of our discussion today, but the question of evaluation. It is true that I recently asked a written question on this, and I received a diffuse answer. Last week it became clear why I received a diffuse answer, because it emerged from the government's presentation of the so-called agreement that, as part of it, it was also agreed that this assessment was made. This makes me curious. The bill states that an assessment should be made. But when I have listened to the various ministers, especially Minister Fridolin, there has been talk of a control station. I have also heard a large number of representatives of the government call this an evaluation, including the predecessor of Minister of Migration Fritzon. I think that an evaluation must be based on the objectives of a given matter. That makes sense. The ad hoc law was motivated by the fact that 1) they would reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden, 2) they would provide a so-called breathing space to expand reception capacity and, not least and a central issue, 3) they would cause more Member States to assume their responsibilities for people on the run. Then, of course, now that the government has made an assessment: how does the government view these three very questions, that is, the purpose of the law, point by point? I would like to take note of this analysis. Where is it available and understood? It did not exist to a great extent when the law was introduced, so can we at least see it now? It is particularly important to hear from civil society, which is doing the great work on reception on a daily basis. How have they been heard? How is their experience taken into account in such an evaluation? I think it's central.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-844	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is important for the government these days when we have chosen to give a statement on how we view the law in the third year. The background is, as Christina Höj Larsen says, that the government promised an assessment, which I have chosen to call a reconciliation. I share Christina Höja Larsen's description of what an evaluation means, and that is why I think it is important to use just The assessment that the government has made is that eight months before we give a statement that we think that the law should remain also the third year. We see the need for a clear and predictable asylum process. The number of asylum seekers to Sweden has decreased compared to 2015, which was the starting point when entering the temporary law. That year we received 163 000 asylum seekers, in 2016 the figure was 28 000 and for this year it will be of the same magnitude as last year. As a result, we are still at a high level of reception. Relatively, if you look at our size, we receive ten times more than Denmark. Sweden is the seventh largest country of destination in the EU, but per capita we receive more asylum seekers than Germany does – and then Germany is still a country that takes responsibility. The situation in Europe is also an important reason why we need to provide information about the third year. I am attending this week's meeting with the Council of Ministers, and the Swedish position is well known. It is also known that negotiations on the sharing of joint and several responsibilities between the EU Member States are slow. The recent elections in Europe do not facilitate this negotiation, as there have been strong expressions of right-wing interests in these elections. This makes it extremely difficult to get a solidarity mechanism through. If we do not extend the temporary law, it would mean that we will have a completely different situation in Sweden. We must be able to deal with the responsibility that we have taken, and we have taken the greatest responsibility throughout the European Union. That is why the government takes responsibility by making the assessment of the temporary law now and notify the Riksdag of this.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-853	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Government for its answer. I have to say, I'm a little concerned. I have just mentioned the three objectives of the law that were stated. I have received a reply from the Minister about another purpose, namely that we need a clear asylum process. Then she talks about the situation in Europe. What I wanted was an analysis of the three concrete objectives of the law. I had hoped to find out. But since I don't get it, I thought I could help with it. Point one: Is it the case that this means that fewer people come to Sweden? No, it is not the temporary law that makes fewer people go to Sweden. It is the closed roads into Europe and through Europe that do so. This is mainly due to the EU's agreement with Turkey. This is due to support for the abuse of the Libyan Coast Guard. This is because people on the run are trapped in Greece, in Italian refugee camps, in Turkey of repression and in Libya of the abuse and slave trade. That's because people drown in the Mediterranean during the trip. That is why people are not going to Europe. With regard to the question of increasing reception capacity, paragraph two, we can say that we have had a reception capacity that has followed the number of asylum seekers. It is not that one has prepared for a greater reception in the future, so it is not quite true either. I think paragraph three is the really important issue. The law was motivated by the fact that it would get people to seek protection in the rest of the EU. Yes, it is still the case that Sweden is one of the countries that receives many people. But everyone else has reduced their reception. It's been a total decline. I think UN Secretary-General António Guterres has said this so incredibly clearly: the world is not better off if more people make mistakes. More people need to do the right thing. That's something that makes sense. The consequence of Swedish action, both with regard to the temporary law and with regard to the ID controls, is that it has gone as a domino effect through Europe, so that everyone takes less responsibility. But the purpose of the law was precisely to ensure that others took responsibility. That's when I wonder. You should do an analysis and look at these three parts. As far as paragraph 3 is concerned, the answer is no – it has not been the case that other EU countries have taken greater responsibility. So that objective is not fulfilled in any case. We can look at point one – is it that fewer people have gone to Sweden because of the temporary law? No, it is not, in fact, because of the fact that there have been quite different things about the agreement with Turkey and so on, which we can discuss on another occasion. Secondly, is it the case that we have prepared a greater reception so that we can take greater responsibility in the future? No, it's not like that. Then, of course, I wonder: what concrete analysis is this – not a new need and a new purpose – that the government has in its back pocket?
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-860	Madam President, I would like The Government has made the assessment that the temporary law should remain in place for the third year. Left party with Christina Höj Larsen makes a different assessment. I have full respect for that, while naturally thinking about what it would have looked like in Sweden if the Left Party had been allowed to decide how we would handle that autumn 2015. We didn't have any temporary law. We wouldn't have any border controls. We had not had any systems that reflected on the fact that Sweden also had to meet the commitment we are making. The government has taken responsibility for the fact that we have received the most asylum seekers per capita throughout the EU. I was the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of a Skåne municipality in 2015 and 2016 and was able to see and follow exactly what happened. That week in November when 10 000 people came up on the coast of Skåne, we asked ourselves how we could do this. Without the temporary law and without border controls, we would have had a situation for which Sweden would not have been able to take responsibility, I would say. Sweden is now taking responsibility. It's strained enough. It is still a very tough situation in the municipalities, as we heard just now in an interpellation debate. It is an enormous task to cope with housing, education, establishment and the process of reception itself. But Sweden stands up and does. Sweden takes a fantastic responsibility. We have made this assessment. We have also listened and taken note of the experience that exists. I have reported that we have a continuous dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, to take an example. I also met Asylumforum a few weeks ago. Of course, we have a continuous dialogue in different ways, including in the democratic forum that Parliament is, with different expressions and different suggestions on how to handle the joint mission. An overall assessment by the government – and we made three proposals – is that we take responsibility for those who came in autumn 2015 and have waited a very long time, and also give a message about the temporary law. We also give another important message, namely that we want to take responsibility for creating a society of segregation if we continue to work with today's EBO regulation, which leads to overcrowding and means that we cannot take responsibility for the whole important task. The answer to the temporary law has to do with an assessment of the whole. With all due respect, Christina Höj Larsen I think that most people who see what it looks like in our reality share that assessment.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-865	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Migration for the debate. I can see that there are some things that the Minister for Migration would like to debate with me. I also believe that we will have the opportunity to do so. This concerns both the issue of unaccompanied minors and the issue of EBO. Of course, I would also like to explain how the Left Party views European refugee policy. But right now, I think we are focusing on what we should be discussing in this interpellation debate, namely my question to the government about the evaluation. We'll take the second one another day. I do not really get the hang of any evaluation that can really be linked to the three stated objectives. I find that problematic. I think it is particularly problematic because, when the temporary law was implemented, the possibility of feedback – especially with regard to civil society – was put in perspective. Civil society was extremely concerned about the integration aspects. I know that these very things cause great pain and great difficulties out there in reality when it comes to family fragmentation and the things that the government is forced to patch and fix through the High School Act for unaccompanied people and now another step. There was a concern about those very consequences. There was also a belief that the government wanted to hear their experiences after two years, a belief that that was the promise. When the law was introduced, we did not have a good analysis. What worries me and concerns me is that we do not have a full-bodied and good analysis now either, even though you have made up your mind. I do not think this is really respectful of civil society. Like the Minister for Migration, I was also in Sweden in the autumn of 2015. I was out there, too, when all this happened. We have different pictures. The Swedish National Audit Office also has its picture: Sweden remains.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-870	Madam President, I would like I thank Christina Höja Larsen for a very important question. When I am asked why the government makes the assessment that we should fulfil the commitment to the temporary law by including it in the third year, I put it in an overall perspective. On my part, it is a very important response from the government that we are assessing a whole. Not only do we explicitly assess whether the temporary law is going to be useful for the third year, but we see the issue in a context in which we still take responsibility for the commitment we made in 2015 and 2016, where we do not have the common asylum system in Europe and where there are still a great many refugees and asylum seekers within the EU. 600 000 people in Europe still need to be able to apply for asylum in their respective countries. We also have a European problem with Libya and with what Christina Höj Larsen points out. But the task of managing a common asylum responsibility throughout Europe is crucial for Sweden to maintain its right to asylum and its basic position. The Government makes the assessment that it is important to provide information about the temporary law. Then I also hope that we will have to return to the debate in many other important areas of migration policy. Thank you very much for today.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-874	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me what measures I take to ensure that administrators and interpreters from the Migration Agency are offered according to availability rather than gender. The Foreigner's Ordinance states that, prior to the oral examination by the Finnish Immigration Service, the foreigner must be asked whether he or she prefers a male or female investigator or interpreter. The foreigner's wishes should be met if possible. ..................................................... This provision was introduced to implement Article 15(3)(b) and (c) of the recast Asylum Procedure Directive. Prior to that, it followed the internal practice of the Finnish Immigration Service that the applicant was asked about any requests concerning male or female investigators and interpreters. The provision thus codified the existing arrangements. The preamble to the recast Asylum Procedure Directive states that, in order to achieve genuine equality between female and male applicants, the examination procedure should take into account gender-related aspects. In particular, personal interviews should be designed in a way that allows both female and male applicants to talk about their experiences in cases involving gender-related persecution. ..................................................... The purpose of the provision at issue is to ensure that the oral asylum investigation is carried out in such a way that the applicant can present the reasons for his or her application in a comprehensive manner, which must be considered as a fundamental condition for the proper decision to be taken. If there is reason to suspect that the person has no grounds for his or her request, there is room to depart from the request. Against this background, I believe that the provision in question is appropriate without opening up to improper use.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-879	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Heléne Fritzon, for the answer to my interpellation! I also had the opportunity to put this question briefly during Question Time last week, but now there is a little more room for discussion and debate on it. I asked the question because I think it is a wrong or unreasonable piece of legislation that was introduced and signed quite exactly a year ago by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, if I have understood correctly. It is stated in the legal text that the foreigner, before the oral hearing of the Finnish Immigration Service, must be asked whether he or she prefers a male or female investigator or interpreter. The foreigner's wishes should be met if possible. This is perhaps a somewhat narrower interpretation than the one I think is given in the answer. I think it is reasonable that when you come to Sweden you get a good interpreter and a good administrator; if I understand correctly, this includes the legal representative. The Minister's reply also refers to the Finnish Immigration Service's practice. Practices can of course be changed with legislation. I think it would be very reasonable for the administrator or interpreter to be given to you to be the one you get. Then there is nothing to say that exceptions cannot be made to this if there are special reasons. But now it becomes like a reverse order, for now you can make exceptions to the possibility of choosing for yourself if you find that there is reason to make exceptions in the other direction. In a country where we think that men and women have the same role and value, I do not see the reason why the focus in the legislation for those who come to Sweden and get good treatment and a good opportunity for interpretation should be on that one should have the right to choose which sex one wants the person who will represent one has. I think it seems irrelevant. What is important is that it is good quality and that access to these people is indicative. I do not really understand why the government thinks this is so important.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-884	Madam President, I would like When it comes to asylum matters, the basis is that the cases should be handled easily, cheaply, quickly and efficiently and that the assessment should be legally secure. For this to be done correctly, the burden of proof lies with the asylum seeker. It is therefore important for the Migration Agency to make it easier for the applicant to present his or her correct picture and reasons. Experience has shown that it may be difficult to take into account the specific situation of vulnerable persons. I think you should have great respect for this. These may be people who have been victims of human trafficking, rape, sexual violence or genital mutilation. It is quite obvious that, under certain circumstances, it may be difficult for an asylum seeker to account for certain events and to feel secure with an investigator or case officer. That is why this opportunity exists to create the right conditions for the asylum seeker to take his or her case in the investigation itself. This possibility is not intended for other circumstances, but precisely for the extraordinary circumstances of such a very difficult situation in terms of the lives and experience of vulnerable persons. I would also like to point out in this connection to Christian Barenfeld that the regulations we have today have been inspired by the Migration Agency's previous handbook, which was produced under another government, with a Minister for Migration called Billström. It clearly states that if it is clear from the outset that the applicant wants to share sensitive information, she/he should be asked whether he/she prefers a female or male investigator, interpreter or public adviser. The question should be asked because it can sometimes be easier to talk about investigators, interpreters and public counsel is of a certain gender. The request must be documented, and if the applicant has not already been asked at the outset whether he or she prefers a male or female interpreter, investigator or public adviser, the question should be asked before the investigation. The investigation shall state whether the applicant has received the question and whether any requests have been made. The request must be taken into account. This is a system which has been in force for many years and which did not upset the then bourgeois government. Nor, to my knowledge, has it been agitated to any great extent ever since. There is a respect for people coming here under very difficult circumstances, and you do a better investigation if you also have this opportunity.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-890	Madam President, I would like The legal text that is now being written is very clear and differs significantly from what the Government just read out. There have already been wordings on what applies to sensitive issues and that it should be possible to do so. I think that makes sense. I also think that the Minister's reasoning makes sense. This could, for example, be about people who have been subjected to human trafficking – we know that these people are very much women. It can also be about men's violence against women and about women who have been subjected to genital mutilation or sexual violence. Here we know that the perpetrators are usually men. People who come to Sweden often come from countries where women have no rights to control their own body. In such cases, I can fully understand that this type of desire is being met and that women are being used to a greater extent. But the legislation before me now states that the foreigner's wishes should be met if possible. This also opens up, for example, to a man who does not think it reasonable for him to be represented by a woman. There is nothing in this legal text that says that this should not be possible. This is about legal text. The difference between, and, is quite central. There is nothing in these parts to say that it should, for example, be people who are particularly ostensible, but it becomes a general rule electricity. However, I fully understand that, in order to facilitate and maintain the rule of law and the security of the individual, it is ensured that, if special needs exist, there is the possibility for the person concerned, for example, to have a female representative if the person is a woman and if she has been subjected to sexual violence and comes from a country where women lack rights. But this goes a lot further, and that is what I have reacted to. Indeed, it is the case that we are opening up the possibility of fundamentally opting out of being represented by a person depending on the gender it has, regardless of whether one has been exposed to something or not. I find that unreasonable.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-897	Madam President, I would like This is how it is, Christian Holm Barenfeld : What was a manual under the responsibility of the then bourgeois government is not very different from the regulation based on the Asylum Procedure Directive. It is quite clear that the request should be met if possible. It is also very clear that there should be a reason for this wish. People should be able to express their wish, but they should also be able to deviate from it if it is not relevant. For this, the Finnish Immigration Service has an action plan for gender equality that governs the entire work with all activities. For example, for the area described by Christian Holm Barenfeld, it is about the applicant getting an individual and legally secure trial regardless of gender. It is therefore important that women and men seeking permission from the Finnish Immigration Service receive an equivalent trial, equivalent treatment and equivalent service. I can assure Christian Holm Barenfeld that in the vast majority of cases it is about protecting women's opportunities and rights, although there may, of course, also be other interests. The Finnish Immigration Service, as it explicitly states, will contribute to combating men's violence against women and honour-related violence. The activities will be permeated by a gender perspective. I believe that this should be seen together in order to understand why it is important that this possibility in the regulation actually exists. The government will follow the question. The starting point, of course, is that this should not be used improperly, and as far as I know today, there are no examples of this.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-903	Madam President, I would like It seems that there is not so much difference between what I think and what the Government thinks. However, when it comes to legal text, it still becomes quite concrete– I am not a lawyer, but I can only interpret it in one way when it says this: The foreigner's wishes should be met if possible. ..................................................... It doesn't say whether it's reasonable, or, if there's a reason, if there's a reason, if there's a possibility, if there's a reason. That is why I think there is a big difference, and I find it unreasonable that this possibility exists. We should rather turn the ship around and say that one should of course be able to choose this if there are good reasons, but otherwise one gets the one given. In addition, there are other things that, if I have not misunderstood it all, would be more reasonable to do, for example, to ensure that the husband and wife get different legal representatives when a family comes, so that the same legal representative does not represent both. This could be a problem, for example if sexual violence occurs within the family. I think we have some work to do in this area, and I think the legislation signed by the government a year ago is unhappy and sends a strange signal. I thank you for this debate and hope that we can continue it.
i-388d1f9dd914d04d-909	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christian Holm Barenfeld, for the interpellation issue and for a good and in many ways clarifying debate! I do not think we see this so differently either. In what was the Migration Agency's guidelines under the leadership and responsibility of Minister of Migration Billström, it is explicitly stated that the question should be asked. The new regulation, to which the interpellier refers, states that the person should be consulted. The old wording states that we should take account of the wishes if possible. The new states that requests should be met if possible. The wordings are very similar, and I am firmly convinced that the Migration Agency and its administrators can well determine when it is relevant to express such a desire to facilitate asylum seekers' investigation. Especially when it comes to women who come up with experiences of rape, sexual abuse and oppression, I believe – or rather, I know – that it is important that this possibility exists. Thank you for a good interpellation debate!
