i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-3	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me what initiatives I intend to take on the complex issue of autonomous arms systems, whether it is my opinion that these weapons should be introduced under the 1980 arms convention and whether they should be restricted or totally banned, and whether Sweden should, in my opinion, be actively involved in the development of LAWS. In the area of autonomous weapons – lethal autonomous weapon s ystems or LAWS, as it is abbreviated – is complex. Firstly, we are talking about systems that do not yet exist but could be developed. The definition of LAWS has thus proved difficult. An important starting point is that international humanitarian law applies to the use of all types of weapons in an armed conflict and that states are responsible for their use under international humanitarian law. In accordance with Article 36 of Additional Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions, each State Party has an obligation to determine, in the course of its study, development, acquisition or selection of a new weapon, whether its use would, in some or all circumstances, be prohibited under its international obligations. I see this as an important step in the efforts of states to assess developments in new weapons technology, such as LAWS. Within the framework of the 1980 Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons – Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons, CCW – the issue of autonomous weapons has been discussed on several occasions. The CCW Review Conference last year decided to set up a so-called governmental group of e xperts to continue work on the LAWS issue. Sweden belonged to the states that welcomed a decision on such an expert group. The Expert Group will meet in November this year and is likely to continue its work in 2018. The mandate of the group includes looking at the issue of a working definition, as well as the issue of the application of international law, including international humanitarian law, in relation to LAWS. In order to highlight the various issues that may arise – legal, military, technical and ethical – the issue has been repeatedly discussed in the Government's International Law and Disarmament Delegation. If there is to be a need for specific regulation of LAWS and how any such regulation could be designed, it is not possible to say at present. Not least the continued work in the CCW will provide more basis for taking a position.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-10	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I have therefore asked the question of these autonomous weapons systems. Computer development has made artificial intelligence, AI, increasingly intelligent, if you say so. Today it is possible for machines to accomplish things that in the past were only possible for people. The weapons scientists don't sit idle. They develop in many places what some, quite rightly, call killer robots, to describe it simply and messily. There is concern that is spreading around these weapons. Over 100 experts in robotics and AI want the UN to ban the development of autonomous robots whose sole purpose is to kill. The experts, led by Elon Elon, want them to be on the list of morally wrong weapons, along with dazzling lasers and chemical weapons – and, I hope, soon also nuclear weapons. But that, Mr President, is a different story. But in Sweden it is quite quiet about this issue even though we are involved in developing such weapons. The Neuron project is a collaboration between six European countries – including Sweden is involved in funding – and Swedish companies such as Saab. The goal is to develop a fully independent aircraft capable of attacking ground targets. There is an international campaign, Stop Killer Robots, launched in 2013 as a counter-reaction to the development of intelligent robots in military application. The campaign aims to ban these because it believes that autonomous weapons are at risk of being used in violation of international law and that they will increase the world's security policy tensions, resulting in arms race. That's right, I think. We may not know for sure, but I think the Minister is right that they do not exist yet. But we know that these weapons are being worked intensively. America is a leader, but others continue and follow. We know that Russia is developing both a fully autonomous tank, T‐14 Armata, and the autonomous drone Mig Skat. There is already a simpler automated weapon system on the border between North and South Korea. One such machine gun, Super Aegis II, is programmed to independently, without human help, find a target, aim and lock the target up to three kilometres away, regardless of the weather. This is interesting. If you think it's programmed, it still can't tell whether it's hostile soldiers or refugees streaming across the border; the latter may be at least as likely. This is going on – there are at least embryos for it. There are other reports. Human Rights Watch has a 50-page report on this, and Harvard Law School International Human Rights Clinic has addressed it and this very problem: that these weapons cannot distinguish between civilians and soldiers. Who is responsible for any violations of international law, programmers or order holders? There are quite a few questions. I think it is good that Sweden has welcomed the expert group that has been set up on this issue. But my questions were about Sweden and were about if the Minister takes any initiatives on this issue. Just following it seems a little passive. Should these weapons be restricted or banned altogether? What is our position? And is Sweden really going to contribute actively, via the Neuron project, to the development of killer robots? Moreover, I believe that Sweden should sign the agreement on a ban on nuclear weapons.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-21	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stig Henriksson! As we have both already noted, this question raises both questions and concerns. This is also complex because we are discussing a system that does not yet exist, but which we know could be developed. Defining LAWS has also proved difficult. We raised this issue directly when we restarted the FDHR. We then set up one of the working groups to deal with this particular issue. These are legal, military, operational, technical and ethical issues. We have seen the very legal issues associated with the use of autonomous weapons systems as particularly important. This task force is continuing to work. It will of course report back to the whole delegation, and that will be the basis for our positions in the future. They do this in a very serious and thorough way. What is Sweden's attitude towards automated weapons systems? Some of these examples are rather such, and that question will probably be answered by the Minister of Defence in the interpellation debate that follows this one. It is important to keep these two concepts separate. LAWS is technology that is not yet in use. Then there is a clear distinction to drones, unmanned aircraft, so-called unmanned area vehicles, which are thus remotely controlled by human operators. Possibly, the concept of "reasonable human control" in the case of autonomous weapons may be a way forward in order to approach a definition. It has also been expressed by civil society organisations. But then that concept also needs to be clarified and explained more closely. What are the critical functions where human control is needed? Well, that depends on where the weapons system operates. I believe that these are also issues that will be discussed when the CCW expert group meets next month. It is clear to me that a person must always ultimately take responsibility for life and death decisions.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-27	Mr President, I would like to We can discuss whether autonomous weapons systems exist today. But I can only understand that, for example, the South Korean example, with a programmed machine gun which up to three k lo m ether will automatically trigger fire when certain parameters are met, is as close to an autonomous weapon system as one can come. Sure, it's hard to define, and there'll probably always be a gray area. But that doesn't usually stop us either in everyday life or otherwise. It is difficult to define exactly the line between night and day, but there are still a number of clear examples of one or another on which we can all agree. Then we can continue to discuss exactly where the limit is. This in itself is not an argument for not doing so much now but discussing the issue, although I think it is good that it is being discussed. I understand that there is no clear position. However, I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs can give some preliminary comments. Is it reasonable for decisions about life and death to be handed over to a machine? Can we even imagine that a machine can act morally correct? Can a machine comply with international humanitarian law? Can a machine determine the proportionality of an attack? Can a machine read the situation correctly? And, as I said, who is the war criminal if the answer to these questions is no? These are issues that I think could certainly be discussed.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-31	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson is just asking the right questions. It was also these issues that were the starting point for our work when we addressed this issue in the Justice and Disarmament Delegation. As I said in my last speech, I mean that when decisions are made about life or death, there must be people involved. In addition, it is an important starting point for us that international humanitarian law applies to the use of all types of weapons in armed conflict and that parties and states are responsible for their use. States also have an obligation under international law to evaluate the legality of new weapons. Therefore, it is our starting point in the work of the CCW that Sweden should continue to argue that international law must always be respected. At the same time, only a small number of the world's states have systems and procedures in place to actually carry out this type of evaluation under Article 36 of the Geneva Convention, and that is a problem. We think there should be greater transparency, where states and parties can exchange information and documentation on how states apply and implement Article 36. Then there is research carried out by SIPRI, including the evaluation of weapons projects in new technology areas. This is also important to bring into the discussion. The Swedish Delegation for the International Judicial Review of Arms Projects has the task of evaluating new weapons and combat methods for the Swedish part, but they only have a mandate to evaluate weapons for potential national use. My focus is that, together with other like-minded people, we will work for more states to develop systems and procedures for legal evaluations and that knowledge and best practices can be the subject of international exchange, for example within the CCW framework. The fact that we raised this in the People's Rights and Disarmament Delegation was due first and foremost to the fact that we wanted to gather as complete a picture as possible of what the situation is at present and what different aspects of this issue might become applicable and could affect us: how should we get involved? When we have a better picture of this – the whole thing is still in its infancy – we can also decide how to pass the matter on. But so far, the focus is cooperation, information and documentation and that we will get as complete a picture as possible of what decisions this may have to lead to. We have this on radar, definitely, and we will continue to engage on the basis of international humanitarian law. That's our starting point.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-38	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says that there must be people involved in triggering weapons that are potentially deadly. Then one must automatically be against this. We are talking about what can be described by a classy name as killer robots. They're programmed to do things outside human control once you've done the programming. With the raging pace of technological development that is taking place, this is not far away. Some talk of five or ten years and say that these weapons will then be a little everywhere. This lowers the thresholds for the use of violence because there is no need to make so many considerations of your own. That is why I think we could say that we are against this and that we will work against it in every possible way. The Minister has not commented on the fact that Sweden is involved in developing such a weapon system. But is that really reasonable in view of what we have just discussed? Is there a timetable for the delegation of international law to make any comments on this issue or on similar issues? And again, how does Sweden act as a nation for this on an international level? How active are we, what could we do and when do we start doing it? For the rest, I think we should sign the Nuclear Weapons Agreement.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-43	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stig Henriksson! As I explained, we are committed to this issue. Since there has been no broad public debate on this, we believe that we should gather as much information as possible and establish cooperation with other countries to ensure that we exchange documentation and information on these issues and obtain a good basis. It hasn't been there so far. This is what we are doing now. We ask the working group to report regularly. We have two or three meetings a year in the delegation. We should also be aware that these are complex issues, and then you have to have time to do your job. We're sending people to CCW, so we're represented there. We are in contact with other countries that are interested in the issue. We will certainly be fully involved in the debate on this. Fully autonomous weapons systems, which therefore require no control, and automated weapons systems such as unmanned aerial vehicles are completely different types of systems, and they must be distinguished. The Secretary of Defense will respond to this. We are at the forefront in advocating respect for international law in the arms field. That is our starting point. It is about what we will be conducting this debate. How is international law to be applied? It is unthinkable that we should develop and deploy weapons that do not meet the requirements of international law.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-48	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me how the government has acted on the question of automated weapons systems, on what initiatives the government intends to take to test these weapons systems from an international legal perspective and whether Sweden should work for a moratorium. As Stig Henriksson points out, there are now weapons, such as anti-aircraft systems, with automated functions. These functions aim to support the operator in fighting current targets while avoiding fighting other objects. The government's objective is that if our soldiers get into battle, they should have such weapons that enable them to fight the opponent with as little unwanted damage and their own losses as possible. Automation can make valuable contributions here but obviously needs to be carefully tested and evaluated. An important starting point is that international humanitarian law applies to the use of all types of weapons. In accordance with Article 36 of Additional Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions, each State Party has an obligation to determine, in the course of its study, development, acquisition or selection of a new weapon system, whether its use would be prohibited under certain or all of the international obligations of the State Party. In Sweden, the international legal assessment is made of the Delegation for International Law Review of Arms Projects. This review is carried out in accordance with the current regulatory framework, and no additional initiatives are currently needed for automated weapon systems. Different degrees of automation have long been used in different weapons systems, and no moratorium is at issue.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-52	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. My question is this time about automated weapons systems – the previous debate was about autonomous weapons systems. A simple example is drones. It is weapons that are creating an ever-increasing ethical debate. How reasonable is it that from a comfortable chair somewhere in the United States, for example, with satellite data transmitted from the Swedish state space company SSC, drones are sent to murder people in Pakistan's mountains and then go to lunch, knowing well that the victims are very often children and innocent? According to a report from reputable Stanford University and New York University, only 2 percent of those killed by drones are so-called high-level targets – the ones you want to access. In his reply, the Minister refers to the obligation to examine the legality of international law, in accordance with Article 36 of Additional Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions. The Foreign Minister has just said that, unfortunately, there are quite few countries applying this. So you can't rely on that. However, the Minister for Defence believes that no further analysis is needed and refers to this article. It is a rather lightweight argument in this context because many people do not care about this test. There would then be peace and joy in that we can refer to this. The Swedish government should not act on automated weapons systems or take any initiatives to test whether they are possible to use from the perspective of international law or whether we should even promote a moratorium. I take it the Minister is suggesting almost the opposite. Our soldiers in battle shall have such weapons as will make it possible to fight the opponent as effectively as possible but with as little unwanted damage and loss of their own as possible. Automation can make valuable contributions here. I think it is almost a little worrying to have that attitude, because this is a huge problem. Just read the testimony from Pakistan and from other countries that are exposed to this. The report shows that these so-called precision weapons have an extremely low target score. 98% miss their high-level targets. But they meet others, passersby. They're seeing kids. They're seeing hospitals. They're meeting schools. Does the Minister really mean that, as the humanitarian superpower we have proclaimed ourselves, we should just sit with our arms crossed and point out that the procedures should be followed, even if we know that they are not being followed? Moreover, I believe that the Swedish Parliament should quickly sign the agreement banning nuclear weapons.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-61	Mr President, I would like to The latter question does not concern this debate, if I have understood the question correctly. What I have noted is the agreements and conventions that apply at international level and what has been agreed on in various contexts. If the current regulations are not being followed from different directions, you can start by pointing out the need to comply with them. Nevertheless, the use of weapons in combat is regulated by international humanitarian law. If it is to be taken as a starting point, each commander shall take all practicable precautions in the selection of combat means and methods in order to avoid or in any case minimise accidental loss of civilian life and damage to civilian and civilian objects. This also applies to interventions with weapons with automated functions. Both the development and the use of weapons, including weapons with such functions, are regulated in international humanitarian law. For the Swedish part, we are very far ahead in ensuring that international law is always respected in the context of arms. As far as we are concerned, it is unthinkable to develop and deploy weapons that do not meet the requirements of international law. In our country, since 1974, we have a system of international judicial review of new weapons to be used in the Swedish Armed Forces. This review is carried out by the Delegation for the International Judicial Review of Arms Projects. The delegation is an authority under the Ministry of Defence led by the head of expedition and justice. Members have expertise in international law, military action, technology and medicine. They are trying to make a comprehensive assessment of weapons or ammunition on the basis of the international legal obligations that have been entered into. The review will take place after notification by the Swedish Armed Forces or any other relevant authority. And, as I said, it is done on the basis of international law commitments – it is about international humanitarian law and human rights, among other things. We therefore have a review system in our country in relation to Sweden's international legal obligations. I think this is a serious way of following up on what we have agreed in various international conventions and contexts. I would just like to emphasise that Sweden is well ahead. This does not prevent us from working, on the basis of our experience and what we have done in our country and the knowledge we have built up, in international contexts to increase in various ways respect for international law obligations. This is always a problem. We can list any number of examples from the international arena on how different countries violate international law. In our neighbourhood, there have been quite powerful examples in recent years from the Russian side, if we are to mention anything in this context. International law and the consequence of international law are always relevant. There is always a readiness from the Swedish side to act in these contexts. But I would like to point out that there is a follow-up. There is an international regulatory framework.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-69	Mr President, I would like to The Minister has maintained a great deal that Sweden is following the procedures, as is to be done. Nevertheless, we are also developing weapons systems. It would be good to have a debate on these things. I have focused above all on what Sweden is doing on the international stage. That is why I was a little surprised that the Minister for Defence took that debate. But we now know that the regulated use is not being followed. With regard to the reference to Article 36, the Minister's colleague has just mentioned here that not many countries are applying that procedure. My questions were whether Sweden has acted, whether we should not take the initiative and whether we should not work for a moratorium in view of what it looks like in this world. The Minister also says that there are some regulations, but now that they are not being complied with, I assume that it is reasonable to say as the Minister does, namely that it does not prevent Sweden from working for this internationally. Right, that's what I'm asking for. What is Sweden doing as a state in these matters? Again: Precision weapons hit their targets in 2 percent of cases when you have so-called high level targets. This means that in 98 percent of cases you find something else. I fully agree that we should be clear about crimes of international law, such as Russia's actions in Crimea and Ukraine, and we should be equally clear when the United States violates international law with indiscriminate bombings and wars in Iraq under false pretences, etc. I just wish we were equally clear on these issues. However, it is not the subject of the day, but my questions are, as I said, where if the Swedish government has acted on automated weapons systems, because there is my soul to do. Could the Minister take any initiative to test these weapons systems from the point of view of international law, not just if we ourselves develop them, but on the international stage? Should we not also promote a moratorium, given that there is a great ethical debate and a huge problem with this in many different ways? These are the issues that I think remain to a large extent.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-77	Mr President, I would like to If you do nothing about your own situation and build different types of systems to follow up developments in your own country and what type of weapon system to manage, then I mean that you have no credibility either in international contexts. If Henriksson thinks that what we do in Sweden is not really so interesting, but that any actions in different international contexts are more interesting, I think Henriksson makes a strategic error assessment. We have built a system so that we can somehow be serious about this. Even if we develop projects in Sweden, where we participate together with other countries with automated weapons systems, it will also be tested on the basis of the regulations that exist and that I have described here if we are going to use them. It is an extremely important activity, as I see it, and then gives a platform, if you wish, to act in different types of international contexts. Sweden is a country which, of course, is prepared to act across the board on international law violations and crimes. Such things can be looked at from time to time depending on what international developments look like and what happens. I just want to say firmly that if we do not do our job at home, then we also have nothing to say in the international context. It should also be made clear that these automated weapons systems are something that has developed as time goes by, and I can say that only in the context of the Gripen project is there a high degree of automation as well-developed operator support. I cannot see anything wrong with it, but I think it is reasonable to build a technology so that the pilot has increased opportunities to concentrate on solving his tasks rather than being busy with other things. Use the technology to make it easier for the pilot in this context! Use the technology to make it easier for our soldiers in different contexts! This must then be assessed in relation to the various ethical rules that exist. I believe that Sweden uses automation, but at the same time we are able to balance it against the various international regulations that apply.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-82	Mr President, I would like to I hope the Minister has not misunderstood me. In mathematics we talk about necessary and sufficient conditions, and I think that what Sweden does on its own level is an absolutely necessary condition, that is, that we apply the procedures that we want others to apply. But that is definitely not enough. We must also act on the international stage with this in our backs. The Minister constantly expresses himself in terms of whether he wishes to act on the international stage. That is what my question is about. What have we done? Can we act? Are there any suggestions as to what can be done? I do not think I am getting any clear comments about that, but we are talking about some other things. I think it is very important to look at this as soon as possible, because this is something that does not happen in the future, but it happens every day. There are testimony to how the drone attacks in Pakistan's mountains affect innocent victims. There are a lot of moral, ethical and international law concerns about this, but we are just going to make sure that we follow the procedures at home. It's not enough! I still think that if we have not acted internationally with regard to automated weapons systems, let us get started! This is a matter of life and death for many people. I think that we should take a proper initiative and test it from the perspective of international law and work for it to be done on the international stage, and I also think that there would be reason to discuss a moratorium, given that this is actually murder that happens every day. For the rest, I think we should sign the Nuclear Weapons Agreement.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-87	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I have only one thing to say, if I am to be very clear: Sweden is always prepared to act against violations of international law. International law is the fundamental principle of international relations, and it is also regulated in the UN Charter. It is the platform for very much of Sweden's foreign and security policy, and that is the guiding principle of the government I represent. It is thus a broad perspective that covers all the issues, and this is the starting point for the Swedish Government's action. When you act in a crime of international law you must also have very dry feet so that you act in a correct and correct way, otherwise you throw yourself away with more general terms that may not really have substance when it comes to the end. With regard to crimes of international law, we need to have a clear and clear line: that is not acceptable, and the ethical rules and obligations that have been signed in international contexts are what we have to deal with, and that is what applies.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-91	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me if it is my assessment that Sweden has now acquired the active cyber ability that will act as a deterrent to attackers and what the analysis looks like of the legal difficulties and the international legal problems that I should have pointed out according to Stig Henriksson. Swedish authorities, companies and other social actors are exposed to a large number of attempts at cyber attacks, actual cyber attacks and other cyber incidents. The most qualified attacks originate from states, state-sponsored actors or other actors with similar capabilities. The Government considers that a developed cyber defence is a cost-effective way to raise the threshold for an antagonistic actor who is considering attacking Sweden or Swedish interests or exerting pressure with military or other means of power. The Swedish Armed Forces have therefore been tasked by the Government to develop and strengthen Swedish cyber defence, including an ability to act actively in the cyber environment, with the support of the Swedish Defence Agency and possibly other relevant authorities. This is a work that is ongoing within the relevant authorities and that the government is closely following. International law also applies to the cyber area. There is no doubt about it. At national level, it is up to the authorities concerned to interpret and apply the applicable law in the performance of all tasks, including in the cyber field.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-95	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. Let me start with what we agree on: Yes, Swedish authorities, companies and other social actors are exposed to a large number of cyber attacks, both actual cyber attacks and other cyber incidents, just as the Minister writes. However, this was not the subject of my questions, but my questions concern the problem of the defence-oriented decision referring to the Swedish Armed Forces' view on the importance of developing an offensive cyber capability in order to be able to face attacks against their own systems while at the same time providing the opportunity to face threats and attacks in other arenas which together affect an opponent's ability to attack Sweden and Swedish interests. There has been talk of gaining active cyber skills. The Minister himself has argued for this in various contexts. What, then, is the analysis by now of the legal and international legal problems that may exist? The Minister of Defence himself has pointed these issues out at conferences, newspaper statements, in Sälen and at the Swedish Defence University, etc. What are we talking about? I am certainly not an IT expert– correct me if I am wrong– but I understand that active measures are about operating outside their own systems, that is, in others' systems. My question stems from the following problems. In order in practice to be offensive, have an active cyber ability that works in reality, one should have to put out the Trojans, internet masks, malware and all that it is called to be used, i.e. already in peacetime. This creates legal and international legal problems. Has Sweden now acquired the ability that we have publicly argued for us to have? What is the analysis of legal and international law issues? The problem may have been solved in a way that I have not understood or taken to heart, but then I want it clarified. The only answer given by the Minister is that international law applies and that the relevant authorities should interpret and apply applicable law. Given the summer and autumn discussions on IT security in the Swedish Transport Agency and some other authorities, it may be a very naive trust that it will be good enough when the authorities arrange it all. My questions remain: Has Sweden acquired the active cyber ability that is supposed to act as a deterrent to attackers? If it's supposed to act as a deterrent, you have to tell them that it exists, or else there's no point. What is the analysis of the legal difficulty and the problems of international law that the Minister himself has pointed out?
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-103	Mr President, I would like to It would be wonderful for every intelligence service that has some form of presence in Stockholm, and also looks at the debate on the web, if I were to explain here exactly how the work is done and what Swedish authorities have done in different ways. In addition, I would be guilty of an extremely serious breach of confidentiality. This is intelligence material that is very interesting in a wider circle. I refrain from going into that kind of detail on the grounds of confidentiality. I hope that can be respected. If I'm going to get into this, it'll be almost at an operational level. Even when I was a member of the Defence Committee, I made it clear that I believe that Sweden should have an active cyber capability. I believe that Sweden should have offensive cyber capabilities. I believe that it is threshold raising, and I think it is necessary in the defence of Sweden. I believe that this is part of the international environment we now have to deal with. We must also in some way be prepared and be able to act in these contexts if necessary. This leads us to raise the threshold against antagonistic actors who may have an interest in attacking Sweden in different ways or destroying our systems. That's the background. The details of the work I'm definitely not going into. International and national law in force applies to our authorities. At the same time, international law must be respected, and Swedish law is in accordance with international law. That's the platform there is. That is what can be said in the debate. These are the guidelines that govern the work of the authorities. The Cyber area is no exception here. I think it is naive if one does not realise that the environment exists or is not prepared to handle and do something about the situation in order to prepare Sweden for how such situations can be handled. That is what I have to say in the debate.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-110	Mr President, I would like to No, best minister, I didn't want you to break the confidentiality and tell me exactly how it works and what we do. These are the fundamental questions I am sticking to. I have never suggested that we end up in those discussions. The Secretary of Defense has repeatedly said that there should be an offensive and active cyber capability. I argue, as far as I can understand, that if it is to work in practice, we must already in peacetime place Trojans, malware and so on in other systems in order to be able to use them in the event of abuse. It is reasonably the definition of an active and offensive cyber capability. It creates problems in international law and law. It becomes incomprehensible if the Minister repeatedly – DN interview on 18 March 2015, Sälen Conference in January 2016, the Swedish Defence College in February 2016 – says that these opportunities should be acquired, that they are good but that there are some problems. When I ask how the problems have been resolved legally and legally, not on technical details, I do not get an answer. I'm not even getting an answer if what the Secretary of Defense says is going to be acquired has been achieved. Are they supposed to act as a deterrent and threshold raising? Then it is not possible to keep the weapons secret and that the legal and international issues have been resolved. I can't see in my limited imagination how we can solve them. Not going into other systems in advance is about the same as starting to build weapons once the war has broken out. It would never be proposed in other contexts. Perhaps there are solutions that can be suggested without going into technical details. In view of the international legal and legal problems that the Minister himself has pointed out and which I am referring to here: if we have acquired the active cyberspace, we will tell you that it exists. Otherwise, it cannot be threshold raising. Then we must also be able to state that the problems have been solved. I still want answers to my questions because they are serious matters. It is not the case that people listen to these debates and the Minister's statements in some cases, but it happens all the time. Important signals are sent out if it is unclear whether certain legal and international law problems have not been resolved, but the ability has been developed anyway. It does not create a safer world for any of us.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-115	Mr President, I would like to I have explained the legislation in force and that international law is in force, and I have explained that I am not going to go into any areas where confidential information can be approached. That is why I do not intend to enter into discussions on how this is done operationally. I have therefore said what I have to say in this context.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-117	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to stand here and with a drunken stubbornness repeat the same questions that I obviously do not get an answer to. I note that if we have acquired the ability that the Minister of Defence is calling for us to have, I cannot interpret the answer in any way other than that international law and law have in any way been circumvented. After the events of the summer and autumn at the Swedish Transport Agency and other authorities, this cholar faith in the authorities is alien to me. I hope that the debate will continue, but without me, because this is supposed to be my last appearance in this House. I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for many interesting debates. At least I've thought so.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-119	Mr President, I would like to Then, without going further into the matter – it is closed for my part – thank Stig Henriksson for his time in Parliament. I was somewhat surprised when I was told that Henriksso n would stop. I have experienced Henriksson as a committed Member of Parliament who has represented the positions of his party in a relevant and correct way. Maybe I'll see you in a different context!
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-120	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I and the government are prepared to take to obtain the necessary evidence for the acquisition of medium-range anti-aircraft so that this is balanced with other needs within a single air defence. The Swedish Armed Forces must be in operational balance. War units shall be manned, trained and equipped. Air defence depends on combat aircraft and anti-aircraft systems as well as ammunition, as well as sensors, management and connections. The components and resources shall be balanced to optimise air defence capability. Separate acquisitions are made at different times. The air defence being built today is thus the product of many years' decisions regarding the acquisition and maintenance of combat systems, radar systems, radio communication systems, combat aircraft systems, and more. The supply of goods never begins on a blank paper, but is an ongoing activity where the needs over time should be identified, prioritised and, as far as possible, met. This is to be done within the framework of investment planning, where the Swedish Armed Forces propose future material investments. Based on the Swedish Armed Forces' documentation, the Government takes a position on the investments and proposes that the Riksdag allocate funds, authorises the Government to enter into financial commitments that entail the need for future funding and approves investment plans as guidelines for the Swedish Armed Forces' investments. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government has proposed that the Riksdag authorise the Government to decide on the acquisition of a new medium-sized anti-aircraft system. Based on the Riksdag's position on the Government's proposal and the Swedish Armed Forces' request for the government's authorisation to order the acquisition, the Government will ensure that the necessary preparation basis for the Government's position is in place before a final decision is made.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-124	Mr President, I would like to This may seem to some of us to be a rather detailed question addressed to the Minister for Defence. I would, of course, like to thank him for his answer, but the fact is that great economic values are at stake. An assessor believes that the acquisition of a new medium-sized anti-aircraft system to Sweden, when the operation organisation has been fully added and with all the associated costs and the modernisations and upgrades to be made, means an investment of around SEK 30 billion. It can be compared to one and a half Öresundsbro. Against this background, I have asked the Minister for Defence for the authorisation that the Government is now requesting from the Riksdag to proceed with a purchase. The government will then come to Parliament and say that you want an authorisation to acquire, but you do not specify what it is you should buy. Nor, Mr President, is it stated what the cost of the acquisition is. Only yesterday morning, in the Committee on Defence, I asked the Minister for Defence whether it was even clear whether the procurement was within the framework of authorisation requested by the government in the field of defence, but I did not get an answer to that question either. Obviously, the effects of this acquisition on other operations in the field of air defence, but of course also other operations within the Swedish Armed Forces in general, have not been investigated. When I hear the Minister for Defence's answer, it becomes quite clear to me that there are no processing documents at present, but here a promise is made that these documents will eventually be obtained. Mr President, I would like to It is said that when Columbus left Spain in a western direction, he did not know where to go. When he arrived, he did not know where he was, and when he returned to Spain he did not know where he had been. In my opinion, the government now seems to be embarking on at least as adventurous a voyage as Columbus did. In the light of the blank authorization requested by the government, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: When the preparation documents have been submitted, when a procurement system has been chosen and when you know what effects this acquisition will have on both the rest of the air defence and the Swedish Armed Forces' activities in general, are you prepared to return to Parliament and anchor this acquisition?
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-130	Mr President, I would like to You can describe things in different ways. I can only say that there is a great deal of work going on on this. And that there would be no basis for any decisions is something that I can definitely deny. It is also the case that the final cost of this is clear only after a negotiation, when you have the final offer. It is not possible to say with accuracy the final cost before you are at that time. I am sure Mr Widman understands that in practice this is the case. I will talk about and provide information when there is full information to be provided and when it is possible to provide all the information points. It is better to speak when it is ready to finish than to speak in the middle or when there is a basis to 75 per cent, 85 per cent or 92 per cent. It is better to do so when all is done, and then we will also come to the Committee on Defence and provide that information. I think Widman is sure that's the case. Of course, this is an issue that we are interested in discussing with the various parties in the Riksdag. This will also happen, and we will come back to the Committee on Defence. Of course, we will, which is no wonder, follow the rules that exist for how to procure this. We will not have any of our own variants on this. The authorisation decision is, of course, a prerequisite for us to move forward in the procurement process. What I can say about air defence is that, in addition to ordering the new generation of Gripen, JAS 39 E, we have also invested in short-range air defence. We will have anti-aircraft guns on Gotland from next year. As I said, we are faced with the procurement of ground-bound anti-aircraft. We have airborne radar maintained until after the year 2023. We're increasing air base protection. We have introduced the radar missile Meteor, which is also operational, and we have reinforced the cyber defence. A wide range of measures are therefore being implemented. Air defence is not just about one thing, it is about many things. The things I have now listed increase our capacity. But if we achieve ground-bound air defence so that we can renew the Hawk system that we have today, which is necessary to renew, we will have considerably increased capacity. The Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the Swedish Armed Forces make their values of any system choices based on operational requirements that are of course adapted to Swedish conditions and what you need in this context. We will therefore come back with both information and opportunity for discussion on the matter.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-139	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the list of measures and interventions by the Minister of Defence in air defence, a great deal of what he lists are things that have been decided long before Peter Hultqvist became Minister of Defence. Examples of this are the decisions on the introduction of Meteor and the development of new short-range anti-aircraft Iris-T-T. On my question about the government when it has clarified the costs, what effects and so on this will come back to Parliament to anchor its decision, the Minister for Defence answers: We will inform. The meaning, Mr President, is that Sweden's taxpayers should open their wallets and give away this money, unknown how much money. Then the idea is that the government should only inform the Riksdag about this. The meaning is well that we parliamentarians will in practice take a decision blindly. The Minister for Defence points out that the Swedish Armed Forces and FMV are involved in system elections, as he puts it. Then my question is: Has there been evidence received during the spring from, for example, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration regarding which system you want to choose? If so, why has the Riksdag not been informed of these documents?
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-142	Mr President, I would like to There are regulations on how to proceed in such contexts, and we will follow them. We will also provide information to Parliament so that it will not act blindly when it comes to making decisions on what type of system we should have and how it should be done. But I will not provide information on these elements until we are done with the preparation process. That is the most correct way to deal with this. FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces are of course working on a basis for these things. We will provide information to the committee when the preparation process is completed; that is the normal way to behave. Suddenly there is a politicized discussion about who has done what, and certainly we can have a contest about who has done the most in different contexts. My ambition has been to clarify what it looks like with all the measures that exist. I can list exactly what decisions have been taken after 2014 if Widman thinks there is a point to that, but I think it is the overall effect for Sweden that is important. I have listed seven points. These points, two of which relate to the previous government, have combined meant that we increase our ability. That is the case, and I think that is excellent. If we now bring about ground-borne air defence, this will significantly increase the capacity. To be a little broad in thinking and not just narrowly party political, I can say that I felt that there was a broad desire first in the Defense Committee and then in the defense decision. The desire to obtain ground-borne anti-aircraft is broad in the Riksdag, and I think that is positive. I have no reason to party politicise or stand here bragging that this is something that only we do, just because it is we who are now responsible for ensuring that this is achieved. There is a breadth here, and I think that is positive. Perhaps I can regret the fact that the Liberals are out of line with defence policy, as has been pointed out. Now we are in this process. We will come back with information and discussions on these matters, and we will follow the regulations that exist so thoroughly that no one should have reason to report anything to the KU eventually.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-149	Mr President, I would like to There is a saying: Orsa Company promises nothing definite. Nor do I intend to do this to the Minister for Defence here today. The Secretary of Defense is absolutely right. Of course, it is relatively insignificant for our national defence capabilities which government has made the decisions. I simply supplemented to give us as clear a picture as possible that this is a process that has been going on for a long time and has gone on with several governments. The Minister for Defence repeats time and again that he intends to provide information afterwards when the Riksdag has already given its authorization to the Government. I intend to act so that the government will be forced to come back to Parliament in order to anchor the final decision it makes. It is totally unreasonable to show Sweden's taxpayers that we should make acquisitions of this size without knowing anything about either total costs or effects on other activities.
i-adfa4412d85eb2f0-152	Mr President, I would like to The framework that exists is the one that should apply in this context. It is the level of the quote that ultimately determines, and you don't know anything about it until the questions are pre-negotiated with any suppliers. That is why I say as I do when it comes to the economy. Then exchange rates affect this to quite a large extent. In fact, there may be a lower final cost for what we decide to buy in. You're standing here making a lot of interpretations of what you think is going to be happening, Allan Widman. It could be that you get information before the decision. You're painting up some kind of scenario that you don't really know if it's going to fall out, but that's your thing. I guess we'll have to come back when it's time to come back, and then we'll have to take it that day. That is as far as we can go today, so thank you for the exchange of views.
