i-98a330ea67bf8efd-15	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the control functions really work and that the Riksdag receives relevant information via normal channels about the shortcomings that exist. In the interests of a democratic rule of law, it is important to have proper protection of privacy. Defence intelligence is an activity that is surrounded by a high level of confidentiality. That is precisely why it is carefully regulated by law and regulation, including with a view to safeguarding the personal integrity of individuals. We have therefore also created different control mechanisms that complement and partially overlap. For example, the task of the Swedish Defence Intelligence Inspection Authority is to verify that the defence intelligence authorities comply with the relevant regulations. I do not share Stig Henriksson's view that control does not work. On the contrary, it is the government's view that the system for protecting personal integrity in defence intelligence activities is functioning in the manner provided for in the legislation. In its activities, the Defence Radio Institution shall take into account both the personal integrity and the Authority's task of carrying out effective defence intelligence activities. In January 2015, the Swedish National Audit Office submitted its report on the State's inspection for defence intelligence activities' control of defence intelligence activities. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion was that the inspection has been given the conditions to be able to carry out the control activities effectively and that it performs the tasks that the Authority has under laws and regulations. During its examination of the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Swedish Parliament expressed a positive view of how control works. During the last parliamentary examination of the Government's annual letter on the results of the previous year's follow-up and review of signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities, the Parliament stated that the system for safeguarding personal integrity in defence intelligence functions in the manner provided for by law and regulation. Regarding the Swedish Data Protection Authority's review of the Swedish Defence Radio Agency, to which Stig Henriksson refers, I welcome this review. The criticism is that the radio institution does not carry out regular log follow-ups in the defence intelligence activities, and the authority must submit a written report to the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than 1 May 2017 on the measures taken and planned regarding a central log analysis function. The Defence Radio Institution has announced that the Authority is now implementing the necessary measures. I believe it is important for the Defence Radio Agency to complete the ongoing work on taking measures to ensure that the personal data processed are protected. The Ministry of Defence also intends to take part in the reported actions of the Defence Radio Institution. Against this background, I believe that there is no need today for additional measures to be taken to ensure the functioning of existing control functions of the Defence Radio Institute. Because they already do. The occasional submission of views from various control bodies is precisely a sign of the functioning of the controls and contributes to the progressive development and strengthening of the protection of privacy.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-22	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Sick thing never dies, said the old Icelanders, and so it is enough with the FRA law that the Riksdag adopted in 2008 and that the Left Party has since been critical of. Now we have the fact that the public part of the Government's inspection of defence intelligence activities, Siun, has in eight years in its reports, which the Government received and the Riksdag then dealt with in the form of a letter from the Government, has just never found anything to object to. Nor has the Special Council of the Privacy Protection Council, which was established and which consists of high-ranking lawyers appointed directly by the Government, sounded the alarm at any time. Equally, the Committee on Defence, which regularly visits the FRA and is informed about the activities, has received some signals that everything is not right in the best of worlds. Instead, we read in Dagens Nyheter that the Defence Radio Institute is sloppy with personal data and that log files about how employees search among personal information are being followed up too badly. This is confirmed by the Swedish Data Protection Authority after an audit, and the same deficiencies were identified already in 2010. Thus, the FRA does not live up to the requirement in the Personal Data Act. An improvement is promised this year. In DN, we can also read that the FRA 2009 at the Swedish War Archives Office requested that personal data from the search be kept for all time – but conditionally. The data would only be used for historical, scientific or statistical purposes. The archive would be highly confidential for 95 years. Now it turns out that there have been mixed notifications of current, ongoing events with historical data. There are also questions about who in the agency has the opportunity to read the reports. On the special Council, we can read in the DN that, in eight years, it has not alerted the authority once, even though other audits have repeatedly found serious deficiencies. The Council does not seem to be working very well, because at every four meetings only one person has been present. The government has obviously been aware of these shortcomings, but not the Riksdag and the Swedish people, for the shortcomings are shown in a recently classified document from Siun – a document that DN has received. But the Secretary of Defense is obviously satisfied with how the system works. He is pleased that Siun's reports show no errors. He is also pleased and welcomes when wrongs are found. Whether the FRA receives criticism or does not receive criticism, the Minister clearly believes that it proves that control works. There'll be a little bit of element 22 over there. The questions remain: should action not be taken when errors are found and not corrected in six long years? Isn't that a sign that the system isn't working? Is it not at least a little embarrassing after all these fine reports that it is through the media that the flaws I have presented here come out?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-33	Mr President, I would like to My view is that FRA's activities are very important for Sweden. These activities contribute to the creation of relevant decision-making bases to enable us to conduct an autonomous, active security, foreign and defence policy. This is particularly important in a more uncertain world. The FRA thus makes important contributions to the Swedish total defence. It also gives a good picture of what is happening in the Baltic Sea region, monitors military exercises and developments in the neighbourhood and gives a good idea of Russia's long-term strategic planning. The FRA is also an essential part of the Swedish cyber defence. Last year, 2016, we had about 100,000 cyber attacks. Among other things, it was from government aggressors against Swedish targets. It is about intrusion attempts, hijacking of Swedish computers and various types of attacks. FRA reports this to Säpo, among others. It is also a question of combating international terrorism. It is important to clarify this type of data in order to see the essential importance of these activities. So for the reports that have been submitted on various things that you want to follow up within the framework of the FRA's activities. For example, what is put in the War Archive is the data processed for intelligence purposes and that needs to be saved in order to be able to go back and see what was written earlier. It can also be a question of a recipient being in touch and asking for a report. After a number of years, there is no need. The report shall then be kept for historical purposes in accordance with the decision taken in the War Archives. According to the law on the processing of personal data in FRA's defence intelligence and development activities, the data may be retained for historical, statistical or scientific purposes. Siun's comments are that the FRA should have clearer procedures for when and how this should be done. Such practices are now under preparation. Siun himself says that it is a point on their part that they think that the FRA can do it better but that it is not in the form of what is called serious criticism. However, it is a clear mark. The FRA has commented that they believe Siun is right that the FRA should have clearer procedures for how and when to separate historical data from current data. Improved routines are now being developed. The question is what kind of data it could be. These may be tasks relating to a military exercise in another country or to what a possible terrorist group is planning in relation to attacks or other activities. The FRA is reviewing its procedures so that there are clear rules for when a report goes from being current to being a historical document. In terms of the number of audits it has carried out more than 80 such cases for the FRA, 14 of which have led to some kind of comment. It is a slightly lower proportion than for the other audited authorities. If Siun finds serious errors, they can order the FRA to close the pick-up or hand over cases to the prosecutor. That has not happened. I think it is reasonable to consider what is reasonable proportions in this debate.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-44	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that I share the Minister's view that the FRA has an important task and does many tasks well. But the Minister describes how it should work, not really how it works. As regards the comments received on how to handle the data for historical and other purposes, the application was approved in 2009, and in 2017, it is still not fully arranged. This does not indicate any urgency in the matter. I think it is serious when the reports and letters given to committees and Parliament show one picture and the reality another. I can't be satisfied with that. I can take more examples. It was revealed in 2013 that the United States' intelligence service, the NSA, has been monitoring millions of people, including the Heads of State and Government of friendly states and international organisations – almost anyone. Again, who revealed the FRA's involvement in this? Well, that was SVT's mission audit. When the digging British journalist Duncan Campbell testified about the NSA scandal in the European Parliament in September 2013, he pointed out, alongside the United Kingdom and the United States, that Sweden and the FRA were the most important part of global surveillance activities. In many countries extensive reviews of the countries' involvement have been initiated, but not in Sweden. I don't know if it's because you don't want to interfere with the cherished transatlantic link or what it is, but there's a lot to look at. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: is it not, in view of what has now been revealed but also what has been revealed in the past, time to make a thorough analysis of what is obviously quite distorted? There are many other examples to be taken, but I will be content with these for so long. That is not to say that everything the FRA does is not good. As I emphasised, many positive things are being done, and that is an important task, not least in the times we are in. However, it is extremely sensitive when powers are given that risk people's personal integrity in the way that legislation allows. That is why it is important to do this not only better than most authorities, but more or less without error. If errors occur, it should not take six, seven or eight years to correct them. It's terribly serious. As I said, errors were found several years ago: the Swedish Data Protection Authority seven eight years ago and Siun six seven years ago. They're not fixed yet, but it's gonna get better. I think it's a little strange to have such slowness on such an important issue.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-51	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we agree that the FRA has an essential and important role to play and that their activities in the area of intelligence collection are important in view of the needs of the total defence and the collection that takes place in relation to the fight against terrorism. When it comes to the different things, I still mean that you get to choose a little what you use for words. When you listen to Stig Henriksson – on the one hand, the business is good and important, but on the other hand there is the other part – you almost get the picture that this is an activity that is really on the line or that the situation is catastrophic. I mean, it really isn't. The analysis carried out by the authorities that have to act here is that they regularly provide different views and reasoning with the FRA and that the FRA has announced that they are prepared to take different types of action and also do so. I have tried to describe that something is being done about the situation. I think Stig Henriksson would have an excellent opportunity to visit them via contact with the FRA and have a direct discussion with representatives of the FRA on this issue. It may also be possible to arrange a meeting with representatives of Siun to make any comments but also to get an account of how they try to work on this. I do not have any comments on various journalistic works that have taken place in relation to this activity. We are not acting on Siun's activities. I would be extremely surprised if their activities carried on an analysis of what the effects could be on the transatlantic link. Nor, as far as I know, have we, when we formulated the legislation or the conditions for monitoring the legislation, had any such ambitions or side interests in this context. I repeat what I said: if Siun had found any serious errors, they could order the FRA to close the pick-up or hand over cases to the prosecutor. This has not happened so far. Perhaps it is when it comes to how serious a situation is that Henriksson and I differ. I do not think that there is a need today to take additional measures to improve the functioning of existing control functions for the Defence Radio Institute. We already have that kind of control function. The occasional submission of views from various control bodies is a sign of follow-up and a contribution to the progressive development and strengthening of the protection of privacy. Basically, this work is about making a good business better.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-60	Mr President, I would like to My questions remain. I have visited the FRA, as well as several of my party colleagues. The Committee on Defence also regularly visits the FRA. So far we have not been reached by information, which we have instead been able to access via the media. I think that's serious. So my questions remain, but I would like to add one more. If it is Siun that we should more or less rely on for this review, I think it would be nice if all parties were represented in Siun. My question to the Government is whether he is prepared to work for all parties to be represented there and whether this is the King's Way to Control for the Riksdag. You always have to think about your legacy. Now the minister looks healthy and well, so it's not a diagnosis I make here, but I thought I'd end up just as I started, with the old Icelanders. In Hávamál reads: You die, your kinsmen die, you die; one I know that never dies; judgment of a dead man.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-64	Mr President, I would like to You can always think about the judgment of death. An important part of such a procedure, if it is important and essential in this context, can be to ensure that one actively supports an extremely important and important activity for the Swedish state and Swedish security. It can also be a way of acting and may not contribute to exaggerating criticism and possible objections. Henriksson would perhaps consider whether he has really discussed his issues in depth with the management of the FRA. I am sure that the FRA leadership is prepared to support that kind of reasoning. I myself have been involved in this kind of committee summary, and perhaps it is not always the case that there is enough time to get to the bottom if you have a very specific interest. Representation on various boards may be one thing. But you can also meet Siun's leadership if you have specific questions and things that you want them to explain. So there is that possibility. Just because you've had a meeting, it's not the same as going into the depths of the possible problems you're considering. We have now had some time to discuss this, and I have given the government's view on this. We think it is important to follow up on the activities, and we follow up on the reports that exist. We believe that control works, and we have seen that 80 cases have been carried out. 14 of these cases have led to comments, and the FRA is still trying to work in this context. Siun has the opportunity to close the pick-up and hand over a case to the prosecutor if it is considered necessary and if there are serious errors. That has not happened so far.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-69	Mr President, I would like to Carl Schlyter has asked me the following questions about the Swedish Armed Forces exercise Aurora: What do I intend to do to ensure that neurotoxic paint and other environmentally hazardous substances are not spread more than strictly necessary during the exercise?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-72	Will I also ensure that, for example, you do not repaint during the exercise with prohibited paints in Sweden, or do not use other chemicals that are banned in Sweden?
i-ENMer5Xr1Y7WdZv33DHBmm	The Swedish Armed Forces have, in line with the Government's defence policy orientation for the period 2016 – 2020, planned the Swedish Armed Forces' implementation of the Armed Forces exercise Aurora during autumn 2017. The exercise aims to increase the Swedish Armed Forces' overall ability to face an escalating armed conflict in our neighbourhood. The scenario lays the framework for the defence of its own territory after a strategic assault on Sweden. This will be achieved through credibility in the ability to wage war and we will be strengthened by the availability of capable armed forces and the Swedish Armed Forces' close cooperation with other authorities, companies, organisations and states. The single most important thing during the focus period is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces. In order to achieve greater operational capability, larger complex exercises with all arms branches are necessary. The exercise is planned to be conducted during the period from 11 to 29 September 2017 with a main period with bandages from 19 to 27 September. All the international military training activities conducted in Sweden are carried out in accordance with Swedish legislation and in line with the environmental permits applicable to the respective shooting fields and exercise area. The Swedish Armed Forces' operations in the shooting field are subject to environmental testing according to the environmental code's regulations. Foreign units practising on Swedish territory have to comply with Swedish legislation. Swedish Civil Protection and the Swedish Armed Forces have the competence to handle hazardous chemicals in the event of accidents. Swedish law applies and determines the conditions, dimensioning and implementation of the exercise on Swedish territory.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-77	Mr President, I would like to I wish Mr President and the Minister a good continuation. I don't think I've got any answers to my questions. The Secretary of Defense notes that the main task of the defense in these exercises is to strengthen its ability, and that is quite true. The Minister for Defence further states that the Civil Protection Service has the competence to handle this and that Swedish law should apply in Sweden. That is not what my question was about. My question was about how we ensure that civil protection has knowledge of any chemicals that they are not familiar with because they are banned in Sweden and that other countries have national exceptions for defence purposes to use these chemicals. How do we ensure that we have knowledge of the existence of these chemicals and that the emergency services have the right equipment and competence to handle them, which is therefore not available in Sweden in everyday life? With regard to the second issue of the environmental permits for the exercise activities of the defence, the environmental review has told us what it is going to do. For example, there are rules on experimentation with new weapons. How do we do if there are lead oxides in rocket engine pots that we do not have in Sweden, or if they use other variants of igniters? There's lead azid, lead apikra and lead styphnate in different ammo types. Many foreign military vehicles have hexafluoropropane for the fire-extinguishing of military vehicles, which they must be authorised to use when they come here. There is hexavalent chromium in dense layers of aluminium and magnesium in air guns. How do we ensure that we have knowledge of what they bring into Sweden and how they use it? The defence has been authorised to use fuels and lubricants contained in their fuel catalogue. However, NATO also uses others that are not included in the defence fuel catalogue. My question is therefore: how do we know which substances they are using here? How do we ensure that they achieve the required permits? How do we ensure that they have the knowledge to comply with Swedish legislation? The environmental code has, on the one hand, a requirement of knowledge and, on the other hand, a requirement of proof that it is necessary, and, on the other hand, a precautionary principle that avoids what is not necessary and, on the other hand, the product choice principle. How does the Minister of Defence ensure that foreign forces have knowledge of this and can comply with Swedish law?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-85	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Armed Forces' operations on shooting fields and in exercise areas are subject to environmental testing according to the environmental code's regulations. It is based on the points that Mr Schlyter is presenting here. In this case, it is in the context of the environmental assessment and a follow-up of these elements that the necessary findings can be analysed and made. The regulations that apply in Sweden thus also apply to foreign units that practice on Swedish territory. The Swedish Armed Forces will normally deal with the implementation of the exercise in a special technical agreement with participating countries. According to the procedures, the Swedish Armed Forces inform the foreign units more about the content of the Swedish regulations. I believe that all parts of this type of regulatory framework must be covered.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-87	Mr President, I would like to Foreign forces have their own regulations. They have their Force Health Protection Act and so on. Then I have a question as to whether there may be a conflict in this context, where a different assessment is made and where a legal national exception has been granted but where Sweden has chosen that this exception is not strategically necessary for the Swedish Armed Forces' needs. How do we deal with a possible conflict between foreign law and Swedish law, between international law and Swedish law? Article 396 TEU states that foreign forces may have exceptions for defence reasons even to indicate which substances they are using. How does the Minister of Defence intend to act in the event of a conflict? Does he intend to say: Unfortunately, if you do not want to tell us what topics you have with you, we cannot accept this because you do not have the ability to comply with Swedish law? Or will the Secretary of Defense demand that to practice here you should indicate what subjects you are using? And if foreign forces have topics that are very harmful, and are not handled in everyday life in Swedish rescue services, how do the Minister for Defence and other responsible ministers intend to ensure that the rescue services receive information and knowledge in good time so that they can prepare for action in the event of accidents involving subjects that they would not have to deal with in everyday life?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-89	Mr President, I would like to It is also the case that we are now discussing the exercise of authority. The role of the Minister of Defence does not include the exercise of authority in such parts, but it is the task of the authorities to clarify it. I say this so that we can get the right perspective on the debate. The Swedish Armed Forces are therefore responsible for given environmental permits. If crimes are committed against the permits, it becomes primarily a matter for the Swedish Armed Forces to operate. If foreign personnel have violated an environmental permit, the issue of compensation under existing agreements with the country in question will be resolved. We also have a status agreement called PFF SOFA and is applicable for military training activities with NATO and PFF countries. According to the agreement, a host country undertakes not to claim compensation for damage to government property used by its military forces. Damage to other government property is resolved by agreement between the States concerned or by arbitration. Damage to the property of a third party is resolved by agreement or judgment in accordance with the rules of the State received concerning the conduct of claims arising from the activities of its own armed forces. There are therefore regulations for this type of pieces, but it is the Swedish Armed Forces who have the responsibility to ensure that given environmental permits are complied with. It is also the Swedish Armed Forces who have to conduct this kind of reasoning about what different permits mean, and it is Swedish rules that apply in these contexts – both on the field of fire and on the field of practice. They are subject to environmental testing according to the environmental code. Carl Schlyter himself has referred to this and has explained the main points that form part of it.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-93	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we both have a good picture of what is the exercise of authority and what is the responsibility of the government. What makes me a little concerned is that the defence minister's response, as I understand it, means that the defence minister considers it appropriate to leave it to the Armed Forces to decide whether foreign forces should be able to use otherwise prohibited substances in Sweden, or to accept these by means of exemption rules in international law. How else should we interpret the fact that if you want to change a business in good time you have to submit applications for changed operations to the County Administrative Board? Can the Minister of Defence explain whether the Swedish Armed Forces have ever applied for permission from the County Administrative Board for a change of operation – for example to meet the requirement that a weapon that has not previously been used in Sweden will be used? During this exercise I know for sure that at least one weapon system will be used that has not previously been used in Sweden. Has an application been submitted? Has the Minister of Defence ensured that the Swedish Armed Forces have a good balance? What instructions has the Minister of Defence given to the Swedish Armed Forces regarding the balance to be made between military strategic objectives and the maintenance of adequate environmental protection?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-96	Mr President, I would like to The question of exactly how the exercise should be designed and what each country should do is not yet finally dealt with and clarified, but where we are in a process. At the same time, I do not think it is reasonable for me, as a minister, to intervene in this type of process, beyond my powers, and to exercise a type of governance that would result in me being relatively quickly relegated to the Constitutional Committee for scrutiny. Instead, we need to go on the regulatory framework that exists here. Swedish rules apply. It is environmental condition that applies to the shooting fields and training areas that are. Environmental assessments are carried out, and the environmental code's regulations apply. The Swedish Armed Forces are responsible for these kinds of issues. My knowledge of the Swedish Armed Forces is based on the fact that you are neighbouring in different contexts. We also have regulations on how to deal with the situation if given environmental permits are not complied with. If we invite a country that then deliberately violates the environmental permits that exist, it will of course also be detrimental to the continuation and possibility of carrying out such activities with that country in the future. Until the opposite is proven, I therefore assume that Swedish regulations and the laws we have are respected.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-99	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I intend to do to give Swedish seamen serving in other countries reasonable tax terms in Sweden and what changes I would like to see in the Nordic tax treaty that gives Swedish sailors reasonable conditions to work on. The issue appears to be mainly based on the Nordic Tax Agreement and the taxation of persons living in Sweden and working on ships registered in other Nordic countries. The starting point for answering the question is that the Nordic tax agreement gives Sweden the right to tax labour income that people living in Sweden have from work on board ships with a Nordic flag. It is reasonable; people who work on the lake but live and exploit general welfare in Sweden can be asked to pay tax at the same level as other residents in Sweden. Now, however, Sweden has chosen to largely unilaterally waive this right of taxation. This has mainly been done as an adaptation to Nordic special regulations on the taxation of crew members, in order to facilitate groups that would otherwise have a particularly unfavourable taxation. I am thinking here mainly of employees of Danish so-called DIS vessels. However, as the case-law has shown, these exemptions do not cover on-board employees of vessels engaged in oil industry activities. It seems to be this group that Mr Rothenberg is now highlighting. It is not clear to me what reasons there are for these, in many cases well-paid, people to pay lower taxes than others in Sweden's residents. Instead, the issue should be given a comprehensive lighting next time the Nordic tax agreement is renegotiated in these parts.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-103	Mr President, I would like to I hope my arguments will be as strong as my cold voice is weak. I thank the Minister for his reply. A large number of Swedes working on Norwegian supply ships have been subject to additional tax following a new interpretation of the Nordic tax agreement. The matter has reached the top of the Tax Law Board, and it is about how the Nordic tax agreement is to be interpreted. For some years now, the Swedish Tax Agency has made a new interpretation of how people from one Nordic country who work on board supply ships in another Nordic country should be taxed. In short, the current case is that Swedes who have worked on supply ships on Norwegian plinth have previously only paid tax in Norway but now have to pay full tax in Norway, and also in Sweden – but then after the Norwegian tax has been deducted. For the individual sailor there may be a question of paying an additional tax of between 30 000 and 100 000 SEK. These are sums that are significant for any private person, regardless of income. There are problems in the fact that seamen – it is women and men, from sailors to sea captains and from machine personnel to support staff in kitchens and services on board ships – work abroad much of the year. They often work more than half a year in another country. These are people who often work twelve-hour sessions seven days a week. There is no question here of any ob-supplements or overtime payments. Here it is all about ordinary everyday life for Swedish working people. My main question to the Minister for Finance was what the Minister intends to do to give Swedish seamen serving in other countries – it could be countries other than Norway – reasonable tax conditions even in Sweden. My second question was what changes the Minister wants to see in the Nordic tax treaty that gives Swedish sailors reasonable rules to work on. I didn't get an answer to these two questions. On the other hand, I was told that in many cases they are well-paid people, who should pay lower taxes than others in Sweden. Well-paid people? I know that this debate is being followed on television and online. I know that friends of both the Maritime Committee and the Seko seafarers are very interested in this, because it concerns their members. This concerns staff who often work too low wages, far away from home and family, with in many ways uncomfortable workloads, working hours and workplaces. These people want to sweep away the Finance Minister by saying that in many cases it is about well-paid people and that it is therefore not a problem. Mr President, I would like to I don't think we should make a distinction between people on the basis of any premise – either gender, religion or income. All people are worthy of reasonable and fair treatment. But as the tax rules now stand, it is not fair. I wonder: does the Minister of Finance maintain that this only affects well-paid people?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-112	Mr President, I would like to The question is what is fair and reasonable taxation. How much lower taxes should people who work on the lake have than people who work in Sweden? How much less tax should a sea captain have than a nurse who works in Sweden? It is not clear that the argument put forward by Mr Rothenberg is the only reasonable one. It is not optimal that there are partly different taxation rates for seafarers working abroad. Some rules apply, for example, to those who work on certain ships in Norway, while other tax rules apply to those who work in the oil business. As I said, this is not optimal. However, what Mr Rothenberg is asking for is a broader tax reduction than is currently the case. This would mean that a larger group of Swedes would pay lower taxes than people who work in Sweden. Then you have to ask yourself whether it is reasonable that people who work on the lake have even lower taxes than people who work in Sweden. There is a reduction in the tax on these people via the special deduction that you get when working on the lake. The background to the rules we have is the Danish DIS register. When the Danes introduced this register, which meant that in practice no payroll tax was levied on employees of the ferries operating in Öresund, it resulted in the shipping companies paying significantly lower wages, in fact a net salary. The result was that Swedish employees on these ships received a net salary but then received full taxation in Sweden, which naturally led to an unreasonable situation for these people. This exception was then introduced. But when this exception was made, it came to include other persons who did not have a net salary. This means that there are people who do not have a net salary but still do not pay any tax in Sweden. This is the exception that Mr Rothenberg now wants to put down further. If this derogation were to be extended further in the way proposed by Mr Rothenberg, there is a risk that there will be people in that group who are not taxed in any other country. Then we would have people who would avoid taxation altogether, which I think both Mr Rothenberg and I think would be unfortunate. Of course, in this group there are both people who have high salaries, such as officers, and people who have lower salaries. It is therefore both a question of people with higher wages and of people with lower wages.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-119	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for a somewhat more developed and nuanced response. But the problems remain. It is quite complicated for people who work at sea, because the tax rules are very much governed by the ship on which they are on board. There are certain criteria that apply, such as that the employer should be stationed in the EEA and that the ship should be ocean-going more than 180 days a year. Taxation of Swedish seamen is based on where the ship is located, not where the seaman himself works. It can therefore be a person who signs up in Mauritania and signs off in South Africa and who is working on different ships for six months. However, all these ships themselves do not do more than 180 days a year outside Europe, and then seamen are taxed on the basis of the location of the vessel during the year rather than on the basis of the location of the personnel. This should be seen by the Minister of Finance as a rather unreasonable situation. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether she sees any possibility of changing these rules so that taxation follows where the person is working, not where the workplace – that is, the ship – has been in itself for a year when the sailor has not been on board. Mr President, I would like to The tax rules are therefore different depending on whether you work outside Sweden or in Sweden. The Minister for Finance's answer says that they take advantage of Swedish welfare. Of course you do, while you're at home. But during the time you are not at home you do not use the Swedish welfare. For many sailors, this is more than six months. Those working in the oil industry in Norway do not take advantage of Swedish welfare but are written out of the Swedish social security system. Swedish seamen working for Norwegian offshore shipowners have social protection through Norwegian NAV. I would like to reiterate that this work, which the Minister of Finance calls well-paid, often involves twelve hours a day, seven days a week, without compensation for overtime or weekend service. This is a rather extreme form of work. What has happened is that the Swedish Tax Agency has for some time made a new interpretation of this agreement. Seafarers who have been out working on certain conditions, perhaps for decades, are now experiencing heavy post-taxation. I would argue that this is not reasonable. It should also lead to an adjustment of these conditions when you put your finger on it.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-129	Mr President, I would like to The rules governing the taxation of seafarers are very complicated. Among other things, there are special exemption rules in Swedish legislation – if you have a sea income, you get a tax reduction in Sweden. It is generally the case that people who work on the lake pay lower taxes than people who work in Sweden. You can argue that this is reasonable, given that you do not make full use of Swedish welfare in the same way as people who are always in Sweden. But the rules are also governed by the various tax treaties that we have. It is often about Swedes working in other Nordic countries, and this is then governed by the Nordic tax agreement. These rules are extremely complicated. For example, there may be a rule that applies to the vast majority, but another rule that applies to those who work on ships that are related to the Norwegian oil industry, which is because Norway requires us to have special conditions for all activities related to the Norwegian oil industry. As I said, there are tax exemptions and tax reductions for people who work at sea. This is true in Sweden, and there is also a further reduction because Sweden unilaterally refrains from taxing some of the income that we have the right to tax through the Nordic Tax Agreement. It is this unilateral waiving of tax which, according to the agreement, we have the opportunity to charge, which Mr Rothenberg seems to want to expand, although I have not seen any such proposals in the moderate budgetary motion. What Mr Rothenberg is proposing could also lead to some people not paying taxes anywhere, and I think that is a problem that Mr Rothenberg also sees. Of course, it would not be happy. With regard to the question put by Mr Rosenberg as to whether there is any difference in view of this, there is another rule, namely for ocean-going vessels. Making a change in that rule, so that it matters less where the ship is flagged and more where the ship is, is not an issue that I have put myself into. I would like to do so before answering that question.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-137	Mr President, I would like to This legislation was established 30 years ago and was intended as a temporary bridge between the old maritime tax system and a new updated system that would match the usual tax system. But the new one never came, but the provisional one became permanent with only minor adjustments following complaints from the EU. There is a 30-point degree project from Lund University that describes this extremely well. I believe that the Minister of Finance, when she familiarises herself with these rules and agreements for ocean-going vessels, will be happy to read it. You can compare with English legislation. It's not quite that complicated. It is enough that the sailor who works on a ship is away from England half the year to get another tax. If we want to complicate this, there are also opportunities to make relevant area restrictions. Then the remote and near-speed definition could be a possible entry point. The rules must be clear, clear and predictable. There are many seafaring people in Sweden, unfortunately not as many as we hope it will be when the tonnage tax is in place. But there are many who hope that the Minister for Finance and the Government will take this issue seriously and see it as an opportunity to tax to some extent people who live in Sweden and work in shipping abroad. The risk is that you will settle in another country. Then there will be zero tax revenue to Sweden. After 30 years, it should be time to review this. I hope and assume that the Minister for Finance will address this issue and that we can debate it on a more positive basis in the future.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-142	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the shipping industry is an important industry for Sweden and means a lot for jobs and employment in several parts of the country. The government has also shown interest in this industry, not least by the fact that we have finally implemented the tonnage tax proposal, which has been in the long line for the eight years that the Moderates sat in the Ministry of Finance. Now we have finally got the tonnage tax regulation, which I hope will lead us to have more ships that are flagged in Sweden but also more people in Sweden who work in shipping. It is important to remember that sea income, which it does not always sound like listening to Hans Rothenberg, is taxed lower than other income in Sweden, so we have a tax discount for people who have a sea income. Then it is important to ask yourself what further reductions in taxes people working on the lake should have in addition to the general reduction that everyone has. It is, of course, unreasonable for those who have a net salary through the Danish DIS register to pay full tax in Sweden. Then the question is how many more are to be covered by that derogation, how many of those who actually have a gross salary, a full salary, which will also receive the additional reduction. We want it to be some form of equal treatment and reasonable taxation. But of course it may be that many people who work in Sweden and pay full tax do not think it is entirely reasonable if others who have sea income should pay very much less tax than they themselves. It is an aspect of fairness in taxation that is important to include here. This issue can certainly come up next time we renegotiate the Nordic tax treaty. Then I would be happy to return to the discussion.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-146	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take to improve Sweden's business environment and create competitive tax levels. Sweden is a small, open economy in a global environment. The conditions for Swedish companies to grow and expand in an internationally competitive market are significant for employment, growth and the Swedish welfare society. It is more than just tax levels that determine a country's competitiveness. According to the latest report by the World Economic Forum, Sweden has improved its competitiveness and climbed from a ninth place to a sixth place in the ranking of 138 countries. The Government's industrial policy aims to make it easier for companies to develop and operate. Good tax conditions for investments are important so that Swedish companies will continue to be able to compete, grow, export and hire more. The government therefore continues its efforts to create long-term sustainable company rules. This is done, among other things, through continued work with the Swedish Corporate Tax Committee's proposal to create tax conditions that are more equal when financing own and borrowed capital and at the same time improve competition conditions in the Swedish economy. In order to facilitate the recruitment and retention of key employees by small and young companies, the government also proposes to introduce reliefs in the taxation of employee stock options in some cases. In order to reduce tax evasion and tax evasion, the Government proposes, among other things, that data on the compensation paid for labour and tax deductions at individual level, i.e. per payee, should be provided to the Swedish Tax Agency on an ongoing basis. The data shall normally be provided on a monthly basis in an employer's declaration instead of on an annual basis in a control task. Such a proposal may also lead to more healthy competition. At the same time, it is important to see that the tax paid is used to finance and maintain a functioning social system – a system that is essential for companies to operate and develop. Sweden is a stable rule of law with a well-functioning infrastructure and an efficient public sector, which is the very basis for a healthy business climate and efficient production. Sweden is also a well-functioning welfare state where everyone has the right to education, healthcare and financial support. All of this is a prerequisite for companies to have access to skilled labour, which can contribute to their activities with their full potential. Thus, companies' taxes should not be viewed solely on the cost side. Without them, companies would have been much less able to grow and develop.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-150	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In an increasingly globalised world with increasing mobility, tax competition becomes important to ensure that companies stay in Sweden, start in Sweden and move to Sweden. That's how we make sure the jobs are getting more and the exclusion less. Recently, corporation tax has been reduced in Denmark, Norway, Finland and the United Kingdom as well as in Germany a few years ago. In 2020, the UK will have the lowest corporation tax in the G20 by 17%. The stated purpose of this is to attract investment and therefore jobs to the country. Following Brexit, further tax reductions are discussed there. Now there are only a few days left until Trump sits down in the White House, and there too there has been talk of far-reaching corporate tax reductions. In the presidential campaign in France, which is about to enter the final stage, reduced taxes have also been highlighted. The Minister's answer mentions Sweden's sixth place in the World Economic Forum's Global Competitive Index. I am very pleased that Sweden is at the forefront of this study, and I assume that the Minister for Finance shares my view. These are two areas mentioned in the report as particularly important for Sweden to continue to improve its competitiveness. One is a more flexible labour market and the other is taxes that stimulate employment. It says this in the report: Translated: Sweden has lost 26 places in the latest survey to place 120 when it comes to taxes that stimulate work – i.e. place 120. Let me remind you of what the Minister for Finance said in his first speech: 138 countries are being measured. And Sweden is in 120th place, which from a competition perspective is close to the bottom of the tax issue. While the World Economic Forum index shows that we need to redeploy our existing taxes in order to strengthen competitiveness, the government is doing the opposite. So far, taxes have been increased by some 40 billion, and if we look at the investigations under way, it seems that an additional 23 billion may be introduced.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-157	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware of the different parts of this ranking. They show precisely what I often discuss here in the speaker's chair with the Moderates, namely that one can not only look at the effects of the tax on labour and entrepreneurship but also what one uses the tax money for. Even though we have increased the tax and thus fall in this ranking, the way we use the money means that we still increase so many investments that Swedish competitiveness together increases with government policy, according to the World Economic Forum. We are increasing in the ranking in a number of areas, for example, when it comes to the fact that we have greatly improved public finances compared to when the Moderates were in the Finansdepa rtement. We've jumped up 30 positions. The Moderates would like to ignore the fact that you cannot just look at the levy; you must also look at what the money is used for. According to the World Economic Forum, the government's overall policy is better for Sweden's competitiveness than when the Moderates ruled the country.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-160	Mr President, I would like to We do not at all ignore the importance of using tax money in a good way, on the contrary. We are, of course, looking wider and not just at tax matters. However, tax issues are an important aspect, and this highlights the World Economic Forum. They recommend Sweden to look at taxes as one of two important issues. Mr President, I would like to Last Tuesday I met Fredrik who is the CEO of an IT company in Kista. He founded his company eleven years ago with a colleague. They are now seven employees and also have three full-time consultants, who I believe are system developers. They are therefore two shareholders and have no external capital. He told me that the first three or four years were quite papal. When you start a company, the revenue is not fully secured. He said that it was not a question of how much salary you could charge, but of whether there would be any pay at all. After three four years, the company had started to move a little, and things were getting better. Then they realized that to meet customer demand it was time to hire the first person. But then the costs of the company were greatly affected. There were two of them and were going to be three. It is about a fairly large growth, which meant that they themselves had to hold back their wage development. He told me that in those years he basically lived on his wife. Over the past three years, the company has been profitable and has a turnover of approximately 11 million. Looks like it'll be even better in a few years. They have 70% of their turnover abroad. He told me that the reform of 3:12 ‐ the rules introduced in 2006 or 2007 – I don't remember exactly– means that in the future it will be good for him. He took the risk of going from a large company with good pay and a safe job into entrepreneurship to develop something, hire people and live on a very low salary because he saw that it would pay off and could bear fruit in the future. Now he's there. The company's getting better. There is now the possibility to withdraw a dividend. But the investigation proposal on the 3:12 rules has made him very disappointed and a little frustrated. He had been at an information session with his accountant. And if I understood correctly, those people went in the corridors and talked about how to relate to the investigation and what to do as a result of it. Three different thoughts moved in the room. Should you start tax planning to avoid the rules? Should you instead be employed in other countries? Or should you move the company and establish yourself in another country? This was about Fredrik and a company in Kista. But before Christmas, I also met another company in the inland of Halland that had a similar story. The Moderates set up the 3:12 investigation to facilitate the transfer of ownership of the few-person company. Since then, the government has kidnapped the investigation, and the only purpose now seems to be to increase the tax on entrepreneurship. We continue to believe that generational shifts should be facilitated. However, we do not believe that the tax should be substantially increased on entrepreneurs who, in turn, create jobs and growth. What advice does the Minister of Finance have for Fredrik and his colleagues at the IT company? Are they planning tax, hiring in other countries or moving the company abroad?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-167	Mr President, I would like to I note that competitiveness was not something Jörgen Warborn wanted to continue to talk about. But now we are back with Moderates who are intimidated by the government's tax policy. They believe that it will reduce employment and entrepreneurship in Sweden. The Moderates have been doing this for two and a half years now. But if we look at the results of government policies, we see that employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. Sweden has very high growth compared to many other countries, and public finances have improved. Let's look more specifically at the 3:12 investigation. It is an investigation that has come in, we have received it and it has now been sent out for a referral. The government will, of course, carefully read the views of the consultative bodies, and then we will take a position on how we intend to proceed with the matter. Basically, it is about how much less tax entrepreneurs should pay than other people who work in Sweden. How much less tax should an entrepreneur have compared to, for example, a assistant nurse? Entrepreneurs take great risks, and one can therefore argue that the tax should be a little lower. The discussion is about how much less tax the entrepreneur should pay than the assistant nurse.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-171	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance says I'm intimidated by the government's own investigation. What I tried to do was to tell about Fredrik that I met and how he and other companies reason. I think that this should rather frighten the Minister for Finance and the government, because that means that tax revenue will disappear from the country. Employment is increasing and growth is good. Well, the business cycle is good, so it's not really that strange. The 3:12 investigation is not the only investigation under way by the government. The gas tax shall be increased and a financial tax shall be introduced. There is talk of road wear and air taxes. In the tube, so to speak, there are 23 billion in tax increases, which in many cases affect companies. I find it strange that people want to raise taxes on entrepreneurship and jobs. According to the government's own budget, 980 000 people will be excluded by 2020 – almost 1 million people in exclusion. If these are to go from grants to jobs, employers are required to hire them. We know that four out of five people who get jobs get it in a small business. It is strange, then, that the government is targeting entrepreneurs and small businesses to raise taxes on them. Increased taxes for them lead to lower driving forces to continue hiring, which is exactly what Fredrik told me.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-175	Mr President, I would like to With every tax change the government has made, the Moderates have said: Now companies will not want to hire anymore. When we raised the employers' fee for young people, the Moderates and I stood here for hours in the speaker's chair, and the Moderates told us that young people would no longer get jobs. However, youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. With every tax increase we have made, the Moderates have stood here in the pulpit saying that companies will stop hiring and that it will be terrible for growth and employment. We certainly have a good economy and employment is rising. The Moderates have spent hours here in the speaker's chair talking about what would be the result of government policy. Reality has proved that this was not the case. The reason is that the government is pursuing a balanced economic policy. Yes, we have increased tax collection and removed some tax reductions that have been very expensive and ineffective. We then use that money for measures that create jobs and growth, for example through further training and labour market training in occupations where there is a great shortage. The overall government policy has led to higher growth, higher employment and lower unemployment. Those are facts.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-177	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me whether it is my position that an adequate impact assessment was carried out prior to the implementation of the solar tax, and what measures I intend to take to ensure that the introduction of taxes is justified and its consequences are properly analysed. What the issue should be concerned is the energy tax on certain electrical power in relation to the implementation and announced changes in the taxation of certain renewable electricity generation. The first step in the three-step solution for extended tax exemption presented by the Government on 21 November 2016 is now being referred to. The proposal provides for an extended exemption, which is also intended to apply to certain self-produced electricity which was taxed under the previous government. This current amendment is based on proposals made by an investigation appointed by the previous government. The report dealt with the consequences of the proposal. During the further preparation of the proposal, its impact has been analysed. Both the report and a memo with an amended proposal and its consequences have been referred back. The additional information then received has been used in the analyses. In this case, too, a proper impact assessment has been carried out and the Government intends to continue to carry out proper analyses.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-179	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson for the answer, although she did not answer the question. Unfortunately, the Minister sometimes does not respond as I expected. Maybe it's not that strange. But this time, Mr President, she certainly did not answer the question I asked. My question on impact assessment was about the introduction of the solar tax, not about the government poodleing and now taking away its own tax. How Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson can so seriously miss what I ask for is remarkable. To clarify what I am actually asking for, I now repeat the question: is it the position of the Minister of Finance that an adequate impact assessment was carried out prior to the implementation of the solar tax? I am not asking about the removal, Mr President, but about the consequences of the implementation of the solar tax when it was introduced. It is sad that the Minister for Finance avoids replying in such a way. It's kind of casual of her. Unfortunately, this is the interpellation response I have received, but now we have Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson here in Parliament. We therefore give her the opportunity to correct her mistake and answer the question. It is important, Mr President, that we hear how the Finance Minister views the impact assessment of the introduction of this particular legislation. The introduction of the solar tax was met with strong criticism and also opposed something that the government says it wants to achieve: more renewable electricity. It is also interesting that it turned out that the government misunderstood the EU's demands on how electricity from renewable energy sources must be taxed. In Regulation 2007:1244 on regulatory impact assessment, we can read in Section 6, that a review of whether the regulation complies with or goes beyond the obligations arising from Sweden's accession to the European Union is to be carried out in the context of an impact assessment. Here, Mr President, the government apparently missed something, as it saw itself forced in the autumn to admit that it was wrong. That is why I ask again, Mr President: could the government have done something different, or does Minister Andersson still believe that an adequate impact assessment was carried out?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-184	Mr President, I would like to The change made in the budget bill for 2016 was based on an investigation that was set up at the time when it was the Moderates who ruled the Ministry of Finance. Of course, that investigation carried out an impact assessment of the proposals contained in the investigation. The investigation was also submitted for referral before the government made this proposal to the Swedish Parliament. When I look in the papers it appears that the Moderates did not have any dissenting views then but that this was a change that even the Moderates voted yes in autumn 2015. Please correct me if I am wrong on that point! It was an ordinary preparation process. It was an investigation that made a suggestion. The investigation was referred, and then the government came up with a proposal. Here it is important to point out that the change that we are now going to make is based on other EU rules than was the case before 2016. The ambition was then to have an administrative reduction. The previous government apparently made the assessment that this was not sustainable. There were also threats of complaints from Swedish associations; Sweden was to be reported because this was not compatible with EU state aid rules. I assume that was the background to the fact that the Moderates in government judged that this was not sustainable and that, therefore, the issue needed to be investigated and made a change. That is also the assessment we made. We made that change, but then we were also clear that we would investigate and see if there were any other openings for having an untaxed or very low taxation on solar electricity. That work began and we have now been able to come up with a proposal. We have now found another exception to EU rules. In our opinion, it is sustainable and is not in danger of causing people to pay afterwards. Precisely the risk of being taxed was the problem of the order that prevailed during the time of the Moderates in the Ministry of Finance.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-189	Mr President, I would like to I can inform Magdalena Andersson that the Moderates did not vote in favour of the Red-Green Government's budget bill for 2016, where the solar tax was introduced. We have debated the introduction of the sun tax and its content in the past. Today's debate, Mr President, is about the impact assessments that were or were not carried out for the introduction. This is a question to which I think we should get a proper answer, because this shows how the government is preparing the laws that govern Sweden. But, Mr President, perhaps it is not surprising that the Finance Minister chooses to argue as she does. If she had answered the question I actually asked, she would have had to admit that the Rule Council, which is part of the government's own authority and examines all the government's legislative proposals, clearly stated that the impact assessment was not good enough for this bill and gave the thumb down. It is rarely all the consultation bodies that agree on whether a bill is good, Mr President, but the fact that the government chooses to ignore its own authority is quite astounding. Mr President, I would like to Now it is not just in this matter that the Government is being criticised by the Council of Ministers for lack of impact assessments. In a compilation from 2015, it turns out that only 36 percent of the government's legislative proposals were approved by the government's own authority. Sweden's pupils' school results are often up for discussion. Can you imagine, Mr President, the storm of criticism that would come if only 36 per cent of Sweden's students were approved in mathematics, for example? Similar criticisms should be given to the government for its substandard work on impact assessments of the laws it imposes. Mr President, I would like to Therefore, once again, I would like to put the question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson: Do you still think that the impact assessment carried out prior to the introduction of a solar electricity tax was adequate? Mr President, a yes or a no would be a good thing. I would also like to hear a justification for the answer.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-194	Mr President, I would like to It is an important issue that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby raises. The issue of impact assessments is linked to the whole business environment and what the Minister for Finance and I have just debated: competitiveness in Sweden. If we have good impact assessments, this makes it possible to make a good decision here in Parliament. The Board of Governors, which is the government's own authority and is under the Swedish Agency for Growth, is involved in responding to referrals concerning impact assessments. It is important to listen to the criticism that comes from there to ensure that companies suffer as little bureaucracy as possible and can focus on their core business. I have previously debated these issues with the Minister for Enterprise and I think we agree that the quality of the impact assessments must be increased and that good decision-making is a prerequisite for us to have good, effective rules. In the long run, this also leads to increased employment and growth. It is striking that quite a few of the impact assessments that leave the Ministry of Finance are of low quality. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance: what does she intend to do to improve the quality of the impact assessments in investigations by the Ministry of Finance?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-198	Mr President, I would like to I am fully aware that the Moderates did not vote in favour of the government's budget bill, but I have not found any deviation in the moderate budgetary motion with regard to the very change in the solar tax that was made. It reasonably means that the Moderates are behind the change that the interpellants now appear to be critical of. Please correct me if I'm wrong! When Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby voted in favour of the Moderate Budget Movement, she also voted in favour of the change that she now seems to be critical of. As far as impact assessments are concerned, there is a preparation requirement in the government. It goes without saying that the government must meet that requirement. This is also being examined by the Law Council, and the government has received no criticism that in these areas we do not live up to the requirements of the constitution. In addition to the processing requirement, impact assessments are carried out, and it is of course important that these are carried out. One way to ensure that it is through investigations that impact assessments are carried out that are described in the proposals that leave the government and end up on the table of the Riksdag. Development work is, of course, being carried out here in order to constantly improve impact assessments. It is also important to point out that on this issue there was an investigation involving impact assessments, and they were, of course, also included in the proposals made by the government.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-202	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that we can come closer to a reply from Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, to the question of the impact assessment of the solar tax; it is, of course, an impact assessment that we are talking about today and not about the substance of the tax itself. My interpellation, Mr President, consisted of two questions on which my colleague Jörgen Warborn referred. The second question I asked was what measures the Minister of Finance intends to take to ensure that the introduction of taxes is justified and that the consequences are properly analysed. This is a rather wide-ranging question, which the Minister of Finance chooses to answer with not one but a half sentence. In the reply from the Minister for Finance, you can read: What kind of answer is this? I have stated in my previous speech that only 36 percent of the Government's 2015 bill was approved by the Government's own authority. What does Magdalena Andersson mean in her answer to continue to do so? And, Mr President, it is getting worse. The review carried out by the Governing Council for 2016 is not yet officially compiled. If you go in and read on their website, where all the reports are available, you can see, however, that only 4 of the Ministry of Finance's 46 bill got the thumb up from the Council, i.e. that they were considered good enough. Four out of 46 legislative proposals, Mr President, were approved by the Rule Council! If this is what Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, means, we should all be very concerned about continuing to carry out proper analyses. This is not very confidence-inspiring. It's negligent, and it's sloppy. This is absolutely not how you can control Sweden!
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-208	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I received an answer to my question about what the Minister of Finance intends to do to improve the situation with regard to the impact assessments leaving the Ministry of Finance. The Moderates have a number of different proposals that we have developed in a motion to improve the quality of the impact assessments. It is about intensifying training for regulators, about the government strengthening the governance of committees and other investigative work, and about focusing in particular on the costs and competitive conditions of companies. I hear that Magdalena Andersson is content that they have not received criticism from the Swedish Law Council. Nevertheless, I would like a comment on how she views the criticism that comes from the Rule Council. There is, of course, a regulation on the establishment of impact assessments and a fairly clear checklist on how to do it. It is clear from the Regulation itself what the impact assessment should contain, but it is also dealt with in the Proposition Handbook and in a further checklist. A natural question therefore becomes: Is the Minister aware of the low quality of the impact assessments that leave the Ministry of Finance? She herself mentions that development work will be required in this area. What can we expect more specifically from the Minister for Finance and the Government in this area?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-212	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that the proposal that the government will put on the table of Parliament will mean significant simplifications for those who produce solar electricity. Those who have a surplus of solar electricity and then sell it on will no longer have to pay tax. Previously they were taxable, and it was of course very difficult if, for example, a tenant-owner's association had solar cells on the roof and got some excess electricity that was then sold on. Then you had to pay taxes on all your solar power production, and it was very complicated. With our proposal, it will be considerably easier for, for example, tenant-owner associations and other smaller producers of solar electricity. The second issue is impact assessments. It is, of course, extremely important to carry out impact assessments of the proposals it makes and that they are well-founded and well-prepared. There has been development work here even during the time of the alliance government, and this quality and development work will of course continue under this government. It is, of course, important that we listen to the views of the Regulatory Council and other bodies on how we can and should work to improve impact assessments. It is important that the Riksdag has a good basis when deciding on the government's proposals.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-216	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me whether I intend to take any measures to compensate for the negative effects of a financial activity tax on rural development. He has also asked me whether I and the government are considering solutions other than a tax on wage costs. As I have previously replied to Jörgen Warborn this autumn, jobs and sustainable growth are two fundamental factors for people to be able to live and work in rural areas. The government is actively working to create opportunities and conditions for jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country, including within the rural development programme, which through, for example, investment aid for rural businesses, support for commercial services and support for broadband expansion will contribute to profitable and viable companies. I want to see positive development in rural areas, for businesses and for the women and men who live and work there. The policy and its efforts will contribute to good conditions for work, growth and well-being in all parts of the country. The financial sector tax investigation submitted its report Tax on Financial Activities in November 2016. The report has been sent for consultation in the usual manner. The referral deadline is 15 February 2017. The matter will then be further prepared within the Government Office. I do not intend to anticipate this preparation. However, the intention is to introduce bank tax in one way or another. I would like to remind Jörgen Warborn that his party in the 2017 budget exercise stresses that the levying of taxes on the financial sector should increase and that a starting point should be a certain increase in social security contributions.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-221	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister for Finance for your answer. Let me start where the Minister of Finance closed. It is true that in the Moderates' budget it is written exactly that way. Does that mean that I am not listening to the criticism that has come after we formulated the text? No, of course not. I hope that the Minister for Finance and the Government will also listen to the criticism and that the Minister, like us, will weigh the facts against each other. I have to say that I think that taxation is problematic precisely on the cost of wages. And why is it problematic? That's because I'm afraid this is hitting the jobs pretty hard. If you put an increased cost on your salary, you risk clearly prioritising jobs as a tax base. I wish there would be some other way of resolving this tax. As the Minister of Finance knows, I am a little cautious about introducing new taxes, and I would, of course, prefer to avoid this too. Nevertheless, I would like a comment from the Minister. Is there any possibility of finding any taxation other than precisely on the cost of wages? How does the Minister and the government view this? I know that preparation is in progress, and I did not get a real answer in the written reply. But could the Minister still argue, without taking a stand, about the pros and cons of imposing taxation on the cost of wages or possibly on any other basis of taxation?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-224	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by pointing out that there is a difference between Jörgen Warborn and me. We in the government have taken a stand because we want a bank tax. On the other hand, we have not taken a position on how this bank tax should be designed. We have not said that we think it should be on social security contributions. This distinguishes me from Jörgen Warborn and the Moderates, who have made clear proposals in the Swedish Parliament that the financial tax on banks should be levied precisely on social security contributions. The question that Jörgen Warborn is asking – if this is a good way to charge the tax – he should perhaps actually ask himself or Ulf Kristersson. We've got the investigation at the government's table. It is now out for a referral. We will, of course, look at all the views expressed by the consultation bodies. Then we will decide how to proceed with the issue. I also see, as Jörgen Warborn seems to have discovered now, that there may be problems with levying taxes on social security contributions. Perhaps that is one of the reasons why the government has not taken a position on this particular proposal. Of course, it would be interesting to see whether it is possible to levy the tax in other ways. Of course, it will also be interesting to see what ideas the consultation bodies might have in this area. Then we will take a stand. Actually, it is perhaps most interesting to hear what Jörgen Warborn says on the matter. He must also have been aware in October of the possible negative effects of levying the tax on social security contributions. What is the problem with levying the tax in the way that has arisen in the debate that Jörgen Warborn did not know about in October? I am also interested to know how many of the various proposals contained in the moderate budget motion are no longer relevant. The Moderates have now changed their minds on this issue, and I know you have changed your mind about the defense. How many other questions have the Moderates changed their minds over the past month? It is only a little over a month ago that Jörgen Warborn pressed for the moderate budget motion.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-229	Mr President, I would like to I thought it was a good and actually quite comprehensive answer, although the Minister of Finance sought conflict and polemics in this while trying to seek some form of realism and to bring in the criticism that has been vented. It may not be true to say that the Minister of Finance has not taken a position on this in any way. In the investigation directives that the Minister for Finance has written, there is a clear track where one should investigate the Danish model with a salary sum, or whatever it is called. We should stick to the truth and be clear that our two parties have put forward this kind of idea. Nevertheless, I am a little pleased that the Minister for Finance is seeking conflict, because that must mean that she no longer thinks that it is a good way to put the tax precisely on the cost of wages. She means I should ask myself the question. That is exactly what I am doing; I have asked myself the question. That's why I ventilate it with the minister, too. This was, for once, a fairly clear answer. I hope that this means that the government does not come forward with a solution based on the cost of wages and that the criticism has therefore been heard. It will be exciting to continue to follow the preparatory work, and it may possibly give rise to more debates on the matter. Let me also raise the second question that I put in the interpellation: the question of the impact on rural areas. Using this model will of course hit the companies, banks and insurance companies with large office networks. This is not really neutral to competition, i.e. it affects a particular type of company with a particular type of business model, while it does not affect other companies quite as much. This applies to the more internet-based banks and the like. I would like to have a comment on how the Minister for Finance views the neutrality of competition in such a proposal but also what that would mean for rural areas. Clearly, if you have high wage costs and get an even higher tax on them, you have to manage the increased cost in some way as a bank or insurance company. This is, of course, likely to lead to a reduction in rural services. It is a concern that I have about the proposal that the investigator has made. I hope that the Minister for Finance will also be able to listen to this criticism. Finally, I would like to know something else. I can see that both in the written reply and in the debate the Minister for Finance uses the word bank tax. It's a little interesting. The report deals with the tax on financial activities, and so does the question I have asked. I ask the question for a special reason, because if the word bank tax is used carelessly, you might think that this is a tax aimed at banks, and only at banks. But it doesn't. It is certainly aimed at banks but also at insurance companies. And it doesn't stop there. At least according to a specific opinion for the investigation, it is believed that more than 300 000 companies are affected by the increased tax. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance a question. Since she uses the word bank tax – does that mean that she and the government have already narrowed down in the preparation work to the effect that this should only apply to banks? Or is it just a sloppy expression in the debate when you really mean to tax the entire financial activity?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-237	Mr President, I would like to I use the word bank tax because we have gone to bank tax elections. That is what we have requested the electorate's mandate to introduce. We had a different form in the first proposal to that of this study, which is a much broader proposal. The argument on which the investigation is leaning is that they want to tax all the activities exempt from VAT. I use the word bank tax because that is exactly what we have gone to elections on. That is what has been our wish. It is also important to find a form that is compatible with different regulatory frameworks, not least EU state aid rules. The government is now waiting for all referrals on the matter. Then we will continue to work and provide information on how we intend to proceed. Jörgen Warborn is concerned about the possibility of banking in sparsely populated areas. I am extremely pleased with that. When the Moderates were in government, they wanted to abolish the block exemption that exists for some activities. This would have meant a substantial increase in taxation precisely for banking activities in sparsely populated areas, namely in savings banks. I very much hope that the Moderates have become aware and no longer want to remove that block exemption, as they wanted to do in government. Because we managed to stop it. It would have been a hit against all the savings banks around the country. I thank you for the case in which the Moderates have changed their minds and now also care about the possibilities for savings banks to operate around the country. It is extremely important for the financing, not least of the local companies that exist throughout Sweden.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-243	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It became clear again. I have no problem with the conflict being directed against me and the Moderates to defend the countryside. I am happy to be the person to whom the Minister for Finance is directing the cape, as long as it is not directed towards rural areas, towards rural businesses or towards the capital market in general. This is important for the broad business environment throughout Sweden. If a country has a good and well-functioning capital market, it creates opportunities for entrepreneurship and for more companies to finance themselves. In view of the competition that exists in the tax area – which I and the Minister of Finance have debated earlier today – it is also interesting, in the case of this proposal, for example, to see that a good tax system in Sweden can enable some companies to be attracted to come here in the flash waves of Brexit – if it is now a Brexit, but it is likely to be. But then we need to have a good tax environment. Overall, it has been a great debate. It was made clear that the Minister for Finance, as I understand it, is considering not going on wages and that she thinks that the investigator's proposal would be negative for rural areas.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-248	Mr President, I would like to The major threat to banks in sparsely populated areas has been overcome by stopping the Moderates' proposal to remove the VAT block exemption. We will come back with how to proceed with the proposal. It is important that we analyse all the views that come in through the consultation bodies. I and Jörgen Warborn have discussed earlier today that it is important that we take in all the points that come in, so that we can make proper impact assessments of our proposals. We will analyse them carefully and then return with information on how to proceed. The Government's ambition is very clear. We want to introduce some form of bank tax. Exactly how it will be designed, we will come back with.
i-Ss3SfCqwdAu1UYVuRG7v82	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister Peter Eriksson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-252	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask a question to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. We are both aware that the housing shortage is acute. Queues for housing are growing, and municipalities are kneeling to arrange housing for new arrivals. This year's report on homelessness was added, where the statistics for Malmö show that homelessness increased by 30 per cent in 2016. We see many people on low incomes, more families with children and now even more new arrivals who become homeless.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-256	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. For quite a number of years, we have had a housing shortage that has moved towards a housing crisis. During this term of office, the government is trying to do something about these problems. At the same time, we have seen a rapid increase in the population, and in that situation we have felt that it is perhaps not quite reasonable to continue with the fact that only part of the municipalities take responsibility for housing. Through new legislation, we have ensured that other municipalities, all municipalities in Sweden, are involved in taking responsibility. This is the requirement of the legislation. We have also provided support to those municipalities that take responsibility and help to build and develop housing. Quite a lot of money has gone out of the government – nearly 2 billion in the last year – to the municipalities that take good care of this.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-260	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, but I still think that the government talks a lot about measures but does very few. If we take the urgency of the new arrivals, we can note that virtually all municipalities in the metropolitan areas have failed. No one's been able to do this. We should therefore be able to implement measures to ease up so that we do not end up in the same situation on the municipal side as we did on the state side last autumn.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-263	Mr President, I would like to What the Moderates seem to mean is that Södertälje should preferably take as much of the problems as possible while we think that everyone should be involved in taking responsibility. That's the big difference. In addition, during this government, we have ensured that housing is built in Sweden to an extent that has not been done for several decades. We are also working on ensuring that the construction and planning processes are much faster and more efficient than before. That's the big answer, isn't it?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-267	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Last week the Rural Committee submitted its final report. It contains 75 concrete proposals for a coherent policy for Sweden's various rural areas. These are proposals that span eight different policy areas, ranging from enterprise policy to facilitating civil society engagement, including increasing state presence and developing commercial services throughout the country. These are proposals that together can contribute to development and benefit the whole country, not just the countryside. My question to the Government is: how soon will you, as Minister, take the initiative in relation to the Rural Committee's report?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-270	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I would first like to say that it is unique to come up with a single document with a comprehensive policy for Swedish rural areas. It's never happened before. The fact that all parliamentary parties are involved and have reached agreement on 74 out of 75 proposals is also unique. I said on receipt that we expect to present a bill in 2018. We have sent the report for a referral. We will analyse the proposals. However, I would like to inform you today that the government has already taken a decision which concerns one of the proposals contained in the Committee's report. It is an investigation that we have put in place of credit guarantees for the financing of housing. Rural loans are also part of this mandate, which was a proposal from the Committee.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that you have already decided to examine one of the proposals that we have tabled in the Committee. That is a very important proposal, I would say. There is a shortage of housing in rural as well as urban areas. My supplementary question is what you will do about the involvement of civil society in rural areas. What kind of targeted action could be envisaged there?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-276	Mr President, I would like to There are several proposals in the Committee's report that concern this area. However, I think it is important for us to listen to the consultation bodies rather than for me to say here today exactly what we are going to do on the basis of the report you submitted to the government. However, there are many interesting proposals there, which I believe will also involve those who give answers.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-277	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Damberg a question. The media disclosures in recent days have shown that thousands of Swedes last year downloaded films and images with child sexual abuse. It is not possible to describe in words how disgusting these crimes are. When a person downloads films where children are subjected to sexual abuse, the crime is not classified as a sexual offence but as a violation of public order with a maximum sentence of two years in prison. This means that the police can rarely give priority to investigating the case. By a simple transfer in the law, the crime's priority with the police can be raised. The Left Party wants to see a change of law. Child pornography crimes must be moved to the sex crime chapter. When will it happen?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-281	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I believe that few of us have read the newspapers in recent weeks without being seriously upset by what has happened and the children who have been violated and continue to be violated long after the abuse has been committed. This is a terrible form of crime. It's disgusting. Not least Morgan Johansson has explained that, given how this has been revealed, we are prepared to review the legislation and see whether the regulatory framework also needs to be tightened up legally in order to get to grips with this. However, further efforts and cooperation are needed to draw attention to and, not least, to prosecute these criminals, both in Sweden and internationally. This is an issue that the government will take very seriously.
i-WHXZPjfoEWP5eqGmzYM8ac	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Mikael Damberg! It is mostly men who commit sex crimes, and there is a distortion of the male norm that legitimizes men's behavior and subordination of women and children. Thankfully, we are many feminists who daily fight against sexual violence and for an equal society.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-286	Mr President, I would like to As a man and Minister of the Government, I am very proud that we are leading perhaps the first feminist government in the world, where these issues are discussed strategically in order to influence all policy areas. In this area, the government has already done a great deal. We have decided on an updated action plan to protect children against human trafficking, exploitation and sexual abuse. We have extended the limitation period for the crimes so that the criminals can be dealt with even when the time has passed. We have worked on the abolition of double criminality in order to get to them internationally.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-289	Mr President, I would like to It is now barely a month ago that the Social Security Inspection presented its report in response to the change we can see in the right to personal assistance. Many of those who have the greatest needs and many of those who are the most needy and vulnerable in our society are concerned today. In many cases, they do not receive the personal assistance or other type of action to which they are entitled under the legislation through the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled Persons. The inspection report points out, among other things, that the right to personal assistance has been considerably compromised in relation to what is stated in the legislative text and that it is due to interpretations by the courts but also to interpretations by the authority. My question to Minister Åsa is: What is the government doing now urgently to remedy the situation we have?
i-47NNzUc79rGq1tnXsVy7nm	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Henriksson, for the question. Since the report came, we have presented a regulatory letter. As Emma Henriksson knows, the report was an order that we made. It is a review of several judgments that have fallen and whose effects we wanted to know more about. To be honest, some of the questions that we wanted to have answered in the report, that is to say, a little more concrete about the impact of the judges. In the regulatory letter, we are therefore moving forward with several assignments to different authorities to get even more concrete and suggestions on what we can do. What we have also done, which I think is even more important for people, is to make sure in different ways that people do not fall between the chairs. We know from the past that if you do not receive state assistance, you often get municipal assistance. We need to know more about what it looks like, simply.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-293	Mr President, I would like to For the people I have contact with who are concerned, the issue does not feel like something to wait for. There has been information that the Government will possibly submit to the investigation to be completed in autumn 2018. But these are people who are at risk of being left out here and now. We are told that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency expects that 30 – 50 percent of the reviews that are made will mean that people get less or completely without. Are those data correct? Does the Government know about them?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-295	Mr President, I would like to As Emma Henriksson knows, several of the judges came during the time of the Alliance. It would have been possible to review them even earlier because the effects of them were known already then. As Emma Henriksson also knows, we have not changed the legislation. On the other hand, we have set up an investigation to review the whole of the legislation in order to modernise it. The tasks that we have in the regulatory letters are a more urgent way of finding out more and ensuring that people who are entitled to personal assistance also get it.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-298	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. In the Swedish newspaper Proffs we could read in December that Postnord hires subcontractors from low-wage countries to get market prices. It creates wage dumping and cracks Swedish haulage companies who want to drive with decent working conditions and wages. At the same time, Postnord is owned by the Danish and Swedish State. working against social dumping. For every Swedish car replaced by a foreign one, the state loses SEK 700 000 annually in lost tax revenue. How is it possible that the state as owner is allowed to act in this way? Should not the state act as an example on this issue and ensure that jobs and tax revenues remain in Sweden?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-301	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, although I am a little surprised that Swedish democrats are asking questions about order and order in the Swedish labour market. Not long ago, we had a vote in this House on whether or not we should impose collective agreement-like conditions in public procurement. There the Swedish Democrats chose to join the bourgeois and stop the proposal. This would have ensured that tax money would de facto go to upholding the fairest conditions on the Swedish labour market. This is an important issue that concerns the transport sector in Sweden, where the government has acted on a broad front. There have been unfair conditions, wage competition and bad conditions for a long time. We recently invested SEK 100 million in increased control for the police of the haulage industry. We have also increased the possibility of controls and clapping, where the police can lock the wheels of a truck that does not comply with the legislation. I can come back in my next reply that Postnord as a state-owned company should act exemplaryly. I'll get back to that later.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-304	Mr President, I would like to We know both you and I, the Minister for Economic Affairs, that the proposal in the fine print would not benefit the workers. It is remarkable that the government does not give priority to the Swedish labour market in the first place and regrets that Sweden's truck drivers have a government that gives away billions annually in tax revenue that indirectly benefits the welfare and labour market of other states. One could wish that the government prioritised Sweden's workers and the labour market first.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-305	Mr President, I would like to If there is something that the government has prioritised and will continue to prioritise, it is order and order on the Swedish labour market. Unfortunately, the Swedish democrats have not helped us in this work, but have fallen asleep in that work. It was a very important vote at the end of last year. The Swedish democrats showed their political residence far out on the right-wing towards Swedish employees. We will talk about this many times in this House, but also in the next election campaign.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-307	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday during the party leader debate, we heard the Prime Minister talk about the important building of society that is now under way. I am thinking both of housing and of welfare. This is to be done throughout Sweden and for the entire population. We could also hear from the Crime Prevention Council the other day that more people now feel insecure than before in their own residential area. I wonder how the Minister for Housing and the Government sees this and also about the possibilities of preventing and planning for security and both safe housing and residential areas.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-308	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is a very important thing to plan homes and communities in such a way that people can feel safe in the local community. There have been shortcomings. But often measures can be taken with relatively simple means. For example, it is a matter of lighting up in areas where it can be insecure and unsafe and of rebuilding so that it becomes easy, clear and easy to get between different parts of society. It is about how to plan and build in the local community. We have dedicated special funds to the state budget in recent years to support reconstruction, especially in the million-programme areas that have sometimes been discussed in this context.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-310	Mr President, I would like to The study shows that there are large differences between men and women's views on security. These are so large that 31 percent of women feel insecure and may not go out in the evening or have concerns about going out compared with 9 percent of men. We can see the same thing when it comes to fear of assault and abuse. This is a question of democracy, and one must also bear the feminist society in mind. I wonder how the minister sees it.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-311	Mr President, I would like to It is simply a central issue of freedom. Both men and women should be able to feel safe to move around in the local community. It is a lot about how municipalities choose to plan existing and new residential areas. I think that we should politically impose higher demands on municipalities in the future when it comes to ensuring that women also feel safe in residential areas.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-314	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for the Elderly Åsa Regnér. Today, many years of people are waiting to move to shelters. Many years are waiting to move to nursing homes. And many years of people today wait up to 24 hours in the emergency wards. Municipalities and county councils obviously fail their assignments. How long are we going to be like this, and what is the government doing today?
i-KsBW11y3DsJ4t4qHsQN5zt	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Barbro Westerholm! Investing in the quality of life and care for the elderly is a real priority for the government, including through 2 billion per year in a staffing effort for the elderly. As far as retirement homes are concerned, I and the Minister for Housing have recently introduced investment aid to increase construction. Unfortunately, during the time of the Alliance in power over the last ten years, 20 per cent of the places in retirement homes have disappeared, even though the need has increased. It's a huge problem that we have to deal with. We have also had meetings with stakeholders to ensure that this money is now being started and used. Yes, waiting for retirement homes means a great deal of suffering. That is why we have tried both to strengthen care for the elderly and to stimulate housing in this area through these funds.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-319	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for this! Money is in itself good, but money that comes in this way often means very short-term solutions. Municipalities and county councils even say it's poisoned money. It's the wrong thing to do. What is now in the suitcase when it comes to getting action that is long-term?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-321	Mr President, I would like to This is a very flexible investment aid that is designed precisely to be able to use it for the needs of older people in the locality. It should be able to be used for those waiting for accommodation, simply. This is a responsibility for the municipalities, but this is a substantial support from the government to be able to cooperate on this important issue. We have this in mind. We'll follow it. In two months' time, I will also receive proposals from the study that looks at the quality of care for the elderly in the future. This is also part of it.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-323	Mr President, I would like to For a year now, we have had ID and border controls at the Öresund Bridge. One thing that has happened since then is that integration in the Öresund region has stopped. Many cross-border commuters have resigned, travel times have been extended, and many companies are witnessing widespread problems. Train operators have been reimbursed for the direct costs of the checks, but there has been no compensation for the significant decrease in travel volumes. Ikea has its international office in Hyllie, south of Malmö. You are witnessing problems, and you are dependent on the airport Kastrup, Copenhagen Airport.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-326	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question! We know that with ID checks and border controls there were both problems and some time losses for people commuting. Of course, it does not facilitate integration over Sundet. Although we were aware of this, it was necessary for these measures to be taken with the situation that Sweden was in. It has also had an effect. We now see that Sweden can handle the situation we had with migration. We are now discussing how to take this issue further. There has just been an attempt with a new routine of ID-control on Kastrup, where the controls can take place in one step instead of two. It is hoped that this, if it is successful, will be able to reduce the problems with the controls, so that it will go smoother, and thus it will be possible to go even more trains. This is an example of action we are now taking. We are trying to find collaborations with the Danish side to make it as smooth as possible.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-328	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope that the controls will soon be lifted. Today, there is no need for them to reduce the number of asylum seekers, as there has been so much decline throughout Europe.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-330	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing is that the controls that take place go as smoothly as possible. Should we end up in a situation where it is possible to phase them out in the long term, that would of course be a good thing, but I think we need to look at the issue in a broader perspective than that. There is a lot of research and development that takes place jointly between Sweden and Denmark. We had an initiative on the food side, where, unfortunately, we did not win, which could have meant a lot. Now we have the ESS and the MAX IV laboratory, which will mean a great deal not only to Swedish research but also to European research, which we can do together.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-333	Mr President, I would like to On a normal day, over 900,000 people don't go to work. According to the government's own figures, there will be about 1 million people in exclusion in Sweden by 2020. To break the alienation, we need more jobs and growing companies. We know that four out of five new jobs come in smaller companies. Mikael Damberg and the government now have a proposal to shock-raise the tax for small businesses and entrepreneurs in Sweden, what is called the 3:12 rules. For a baker, a car shop or a flower shop, Damberg now wants to raise their tax by 25 percent. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: how can this Damberg tax on small businesses and entrepreneurs lead to more jobs?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-335	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that question, Lars Helmered! It is a bit unlucky for Lars Helmered to talk about job growth today because the Swedish Public Employment Service has come up with new figures showing that unemployment is falling again in Sweden. This is the third year in a row where unemployment is falling a lot and employment continues to grow. They're the lowest in ten years. It is a little bad luck with the timing of the issue, because our employment policy is delivering. We are now seeing a decreasing exclusion in Sweden. During the bourgeois period we had a growing alienation in Sweden. We will continue to push back unemployment and exclusion in Sweden through active policies. The government has not put forward any proposal for new taxation. However, there has been an investigation that has been out for a referral. It is now being dealt with by the government. The government will come back when and if we have a proposal ready.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-337	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance set up an investigation a few years ago that focused on facilitating generational change in smaller companies. It was the so-called 3:12 rules you were supposed to look over. Mikael Damberg chose to give this investigation a new assignment. The proposal has now arrived and, if it were to be implemented, it actually represents a shock to small businesses and entrepreneurs. At the same time, we know that there is enormous exclusion. It's a huge challenge. More jobs are needed, and we all know that it is precisely in the smallest companies that new jobs are coming. That is why I ask the question: why does Mikael Damberg want to impose a tax increase on those who can create jobs with surgical precision?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-339	Mr President, I would like to The 3:12 question also persecuted the former government with all the changes that did not lead to anyone being happy. Now we have a proposal from an investigation. It's not the government's proposal. It's an investigation proposal. When the government makes its proposal, we can discuss the 3:12 issue again. Otherwise, as Minister of Economic Affairs, I will continue to facilitate funding. We are now discussing how we can shorten payment times, so that not least small and medium-sized companies can continue to grow and expand in Sweden without acting as banks for large companies.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-341	Mr President, I would like to I have been waiting for the government to improve on the issue of personal assistance. Before Christmas, I was able to read the new beautiful regulation letter to Försäkringskassan, where the government writes that it protects the sustainable development of assistance compensation. Sustainable for whom? Is it for the government, which imposes savings in this area? Is it for all those who cannot live their lives to the full even if they have assistance today, as they live in fear of what the Government Office will do next? The government, led by Åsa Regnér, blames its shortcomings on the users when it states that the assistance funds should not be used to pay for lawyers. It is the government and the authority that has eroded the possibility for ordinary people to seek and receive assistance. It's about saving requirements and loitering laws that fucking read the Bible in search of loopholes. That is why lawyers are needed today to even get assistance. Don't blame the users!
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-344	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hanna Wigh, for the question! The government has not changed the legislation. The government is keen that funds for personal assistance – it is now 30 billion – go to personal assistance; it is about the rights and needs of users. We know today from a number of reports, at least five, that a rather large proportion goes to other things than what it was intended for. I think that around 10 percent – that's what the Social Insurance Agency itself estimates it to – is a large proportion of 30 billion. The Social Insurance Agency estimates it's somewhere there. I find it remarkable that taxpayers' money is being spent on other things. I want to get to that. I think I have a responsibility for that, for the sake of the people and for the sake of reform. That is why we have made sure that the Social Insurance Agency in its work will ensure that the funds really go to people's needs.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-346	Mr President, I would like to It is about combating over-exploitation and criminal use with a particular focus on increasing hourly development. It is a fabrication of the old directive and a suspicion of everyone. The granting of assistance has fallen from over 60% to 30% in ten years. So the 70% rejected have no need. This is about real people with real lives. Their rights are taken away from them. Add an accident commission, and honor the LSS by saving money elsewhere! Can the government do that?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-348	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats do not think it is important to prosecute crime – it was an interesting information. I think it is. I think the welfare money we have should be used for those who are entitled to it. This is to be done now, and it is important for confidence in the future, both the confidence of users and the public in the reform. In the letter of regulation that we have written, we want to ensure that the funds go to what was intended and to them as intended. We also want to ensure, through a series of missions that we give to various authorities, that people do not end up between the chairs.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-351	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. Last week the Rural Committee presented its report, which highlighted the importance of jobs and an industry that is extremely important for rural areas and for jobs, namely the tourism industry. The challenges presented included passenger transport, access to the right workforce and difficulties in having employment all year round. That is why my question is: how does the government work to ensure that the challenges or, if you speak clearly, the problems are as small as possible, preferably non-existent, so that we have the opportunity to live and live throughout the country?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-353	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The tourism industry is a hugely important industry throughout Sweden. It's important in big cities. We received a report the other day that Stockholm is ranked very high as a destination in the global measurements and attracts people to Sweden. But we see that the tourism industry today creates jobs and growth opportunities throughout Sweden. Last year, nights grew twice as fast in Sweden as in the rest of Europe. We'll continue to do that. The government has worked to promote Sweden abroad. There is 110 million more to promote Sweden abroad. We see a positive development in this. We have worked with destination development to get more destinations ready to receive not least international visitors. We have now also added an SOU to take a concerted approach to the development of the entire tourism industry for the first time in a very long time. It is Britt Bohlin who is investigating and leading this work so that we will get a comprehensive basis for how we can strategically work with tourism development in Sweden until next year.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-356	Mr President, I would like to I was just going to ask you a supplementary question about destination development. I myself come from Kiruna, which is located in Lapland, which is a very strong brand. But I think there are many destinations in Sweden that could be even bigger brands. Can you go into more detail about how to work with destination development or why it is important?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-358	Mr President, I would like to Destination development is important for marketing exciting and unique destinations – Sweden has very diverse destinations that make Sweden exciting internationally. But it's also about taking off. It's not enough to be unique. There is also a corporate culture of accommodation, food, transport and other related services, in order for international tourists not least to dare and want to place orders and to be able to continue a tourism industry in a locality. That's why they work together nationally with the regions. They work with stronger destinations in Sweden not only to promote them but also to make them flourish.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-359	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister Damberg. He can look up the tab F, as in defense, in his reading cover. We just had a defense conference in Sälen. D spoke, among other things, Prime Minister Löfven. He said that the Swedish people demand that we be adults. It's wise, right and proper. Minister Hultqvist spoke the following day and in many ways had a rather elegant opening paragraph in his speech. He attacked--it was actually a rhetorical bull rush. He also ducked for his own responsibility. I think we can be many who can look back on the defence and security policy that has been pursued in the past, but now we have to do things. We also see that conditions around the world are deteriorating. From the Moderates' side we have pointed to investments here and now for a total amount of 8 1⁄2 billion. My questions are: How does the government intend to safeguard a continued spirit of cooperation given these two different things? Does the government intend to move from words to actions in terms of defence efforts here and now?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-363	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't in Sälen this year, so I can't exactly review what happened there. However, I noted that Peter Hultqvist had also spoken about the defence policy of the previous government. During the last parliamentary term, considerable savings were made on the defence. In addition, the military service system was dismantled. During this term of office, we decide to reverse this development and invest more in defence money-wise but also reintroduce the military army in Sweden. This actually means a shift in relation to the development of the previous government. We want to build this on cooperation, but one cannot be so supportive, even if one is moderate and likes defence, that one cannot take a certain criticism of how one acted during the last parliamentary term. I believe that Swedish defence policy would benefit from more long-termism and the protection of agreements and the courage to stand for them. But it is also about discussing the challenges we face here and now.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-365	Mr President, I would like to During the two pre-alignment mandate periods, 2006-2014, it was never the case that a higher bid was made in the Chamber than had been presented by the government. I think we can all be self-critical, but that also applies to Social Democrats visiting Sälen. I will come back to my question. Given the deteriorating security situation that we have been in for some time now, I wonder: Do the government in any way want to contribute to further efforts on Swedish defence capabilities here and now?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-367	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Hans Wallmark is based on defence capabilities. That is what we are talking about, how we strengthen Swedish defence capabilities over time. Then we in Sweden usually start from defence preparations and analyses and actually see what needs there are. What are our priorities? Then we discuss the economy. I note that the long-term perspective has not gone further than since December, when the Moderates voted for the defence agreement and the budgetary reinforcement that we had jointly agreed. It was as late as mid-December. So it's fast in these playtimes, even for the Moderates.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-370	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. It is very gratifying that Sweden is now doing well, that we have a falling unemployment rate and that we have growth. But there are also people who are worried and who feel that Sweden is slipping apart. We have now talked on several occasions about the Rural Committee's proposals, with 75 programme items, which came last week. But there are also more areas. There is a waiting food strategy, and there are other things that could be done to keep the country together. When it comes to men and women being able to live in rural areas and be able to train themselves – it's about skills provision – so that they can take the jobs that actually exist in rural areas, perhaps even before the consultation bodies have said their thing in certain areas. Although Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has answered to some extent, I would still like to ask how we will manage a good welfare in the whole country in the future.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-374	Mr President, I would like to The reason why we appointed this committee and gave these directives to it was precisely what Monica Green is asking about, namely to be able to reverse the developments that exist in Swedish rural areas. In this country, cities and rural areas have been torn apart in many ways. It is therefore important that we have now received this proposal. As I said, it took eight days for the government today to take the first step to look at the rural loans, which are part of the mission. I do not rule out that we will come up with more measures this year, but I assume that the overall policy will be taken into a bill in 2018.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-376	Mr President, I would like to It is great that there is a coherent policy in this area, while it actually also intervenes in all other policy areas. It is, of course, about the supply of skills, municipal services, postal services, broadband expansion and housing, that is, a great many policy areas. Despite the fact that it should be collected, you still have to ensure that it is implemented in other areas. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht will now come to Skövde on Monday – welcome! I would like to send out the demand that the food strategy should come soon and that it should also develop Skaraborg.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-378	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to the visit to Skövde. It is above all discussion on agricultural issues that will be touched upon at that meeting, but of course the food strategy is part of it. The Food Strategy is a holistic approach taken by the government, which concerns both primary production and agriculture, fishing and gardening, but also the small-scale and large-scale food industry. It concerns exports, trade and also the tourism industry, food tourism and so on. It is a holistic approach, and I hope that we can agree with the opposition on this issue.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-381	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. The hospitality industry has been discussed here today. It is one of Sweden's most viable industries with companies that employ many people. It is a nutrition that needs different skills, and it is common for many young and newcomers to get their first jobs here. The value of tourism exports was higher in 2015 than the pharmaceutical, steel and iron industries. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been commissioned to submit proposals for new specialisations within the upper secondary school's nature conservation programme. As early as last spring, the report was submitted, in which the Swedish National Agency for Education proposes that the nature conservation programme should narrow down to five directions. This would mean that the orientations for nature tourism, hunting, wildlife conservation, fishing and water conservation, recreation and experiences should be deleted – orientations where most people get jobs or start their own.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-385	Mr President, I would like to The government has received the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal but has not landed in a proposal of its own. Let us look at the views and views expressed. Alexandra Anstrell has now also expressed her views on this, and I will take that with me in the further work. I do not think that the intention, either from the Swedish National Agency for Education or anyone else, is that the new upper secondary school should strangle or narrow down the job opportunities in Sweden. The aim must be the opposite. I have to take the question with me because I do not work so close to it that I can describe exactly and in detail how the work will be carried out in the future. I know, however, that the government has not yet taken a stand.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-388	Mr President, I would like to It sounds positive and promising when Minister Damberg says that this is very important. I very much hope that the government will take on board what many have said, both here and elsewhere, because nature tourism is very interesting for the tourism industry. Perhaps I can get the Minister to promise that he will really come back to the matter when the decisions are taken.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-389	Mr President, I would like to I promise to follow up the issue, not least with my ministerial colleagues who are working a little closer on the specific change in upper secondary school, in the future. Housing construction as a means of reducing segregation
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-391	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. In 2016 we achieved the highest building rate in Sweden since the million-dollar programme. We see that it is being built all over the country, both in rural and urban areas. Boverket also estimates that construction will continue to increase in 2017. This is a positive trend, and we know that it is needed, because almost all municipalities say that they have a housing shortage. However, when the focus is on building away the housing shortage as quickly as possible, the risk is that you do not take the opportunity to build away problems in the housing market and, for example, counteract segregation. I therefore wonder how the government is working to create the conditions for building out segregation.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We have special support in the state budget for those areas where major renovations are now needed, including in the million-programme areas. It is to strengthen these areas so that we can reduce segregation. I am also thinking of the so-called settlement law, which has come now, and which is also about supporting municipalities such as Södertälje and others who have had to take a great deal of responsibility in the past in terms of housing supply. Now we make sure that more people are involved and take responsibility so that the whole of Sweden is involved in this work.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-396	Mr President, I would like to My follow-up question is: are there any more incentives that the Minister might be willing to use to build away segregation even in individual communities? We are talking about the big thing, but if we also talk about the small thing.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-397	Mr President, I would like to Now that we are building to the extent that we are doing, it is about making sure that we build communities and not just residential areas. It is incredibly important that the municipalities around Sweden today do not repeat the same mistakes that we made in the 1960s and 1970s, but instead build real communities, where workplaces and other functions are involved in the local community so that there are not only areas outside the cities with housing that are isolated from other activities.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-399	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Mikael Damberg. Today we have a situation with approximately 100,000 job vacancies. At the same time, the business community is failing one in five recruitment attempts. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Four out of ten companies are postponing a planned expansion. Arbetsförmedlingen and Tillväxtverket describe a sharp shortage of skilled personnel. At the same time, we can see a decrease in interest in our vocational training. In 2025 SCB estimates that there will be a lack of 34 000 upper secondary education in technology and manufacturing, of which 26 000 in industry. There will be a lack of 91⁄2 thousand in the health sector and over 80 000 in the social sector.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-402	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roza, for a very important question! We now have a situation where education policy is becoming an increasingly important growth factor for Sweden. That is: If we succeed in getting the education system to match the needs of both the public sector and the business sector, we can keep going but also develop Swedish growth and job growth in the future. Education and training policies have therefore been given a greater job dimension than in the past. What is the solution to this? Since we are undertraining people in Sweden, we have 70 000 more training places that we roll out at universities, universities of applied sciences, Komvux and in labour market policy. The second question is how to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary education. Collaboration is absolutely the most important thing. When industries and sectors are involved in planning and conducting education, quality is improved. I also think that the Upper Secondary School Committee is into something very exciting and looks at upper secondary school skills, which gives the students the opportunity to also make other choices in the future. I believe that this is an important issue in order to increase status.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-405	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I listened with interest to the party leader debate yesterday. Anna Kinberg Batra painted a gloomy picture of the companies. She did not describe the problems from what I went into in my speech, but she just said: tax, tax, tax! She suggested that some people don't want to work. I didn't hear anything about initiative, and I didn't hear anything about the hope of the future for young people, for our new arrivals and others who need adequate education to take the jobs they need for our common community. What would a bourgeois government mean for welfare, and what can their policy do to meet the needs?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-408	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I should not speak so much about what a bourgeois government would mean. We've seen eight years of it. I think it is interesting to follow the statistics now, where it is clear that employment is continuing to increase in Sweden. There are historically high levels of employment. What distinguishes our period from the previous period is that unemployment is falling. I think it has a lot to do with education. We match the unemployed with the knowledge requirements of the Swedish labour market. If you don't get that knowledge, you don't get into the labour market. There, the vocational programmes and the professional life of the future are important factors for reducing unemployment and creating growth.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-411	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. One form of financial abuse is that one partner attracts the other partner to take out joint loans. When the loans are due, the partner does not want to pay the loan. Then the other one will have to stand for everything. Even if you divorce, you can't do anything about the problem. Money is collected from the one who has money. If one partner is with the bailiff and does not give priority to paying, the other partner is caught. This can lead to both eventually ending up with the bailiff. This action can be part of other assaults – economic, psychological, sexual, physical and so on. The question is whether it is possible after a divorce to split the debt in two so that you do not have to pay more than half.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-415	Mr President, I would like to The issue itself does not fall within my remit in the government. But, of course, there should be legislation that protects people when they enter into marriage. As an individual, you should know what applies if you enter into a marriage, are a common-law spouse or in different ways include financial relations with the person you live with. The most important measure of gender equality policy is that there is currently a high level of employment for both women and men. The fact that women like men have their own economic platform to stand on is one of the most important things. I'll take Hillevi Larsson's question to the responsible minister.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-419	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Mikael Damberg. I would like to pick up the question that has been raised earlier today about Postnord. The State Postnord has been waltzing around the media over the past year. It has covered everything from postal delivery and lack of work environment to real estate boxes. Now it's last time it's the transports. Consciously or unconsciously, we can conclude that Postnord, a state-owned company, is involved in contributing to wage dumping through the services the company purchases. There are major problems in the transport sector. In this respect, state-owned companies should be able to take precedence.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-423	Mr President, I would like to I know that Teres Lindberg knows the post well, and we have discussed Postnord before in different contexts. It is a company that is under enormous pressure, has made some difficult decisions and made some wrong organisational changes that have led to challenges for the company – which we have not stopped discussing in Sweden but will continue to discuss. As far as the transport sector is concerned, Postnord has a responsibility. I was concerned about the information on how to act in the supply chain. That's why I was happy when Postnord said that the data should be reviewed. My message is that Postnord as a state actor should act exemplaryly. They should go ahead and show how to act in different markets and that it matters that the state is an important owner. Today, I have received new information. Postnord will now intensify work on the follow-up of subcontractors for 2017. They will carry out more checks, deepen their audits and also use external auditors. That's good.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-427	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. It is important that the government takes the issues seriously. We could look more closely at how the collective agreement can be used. Although the Riksdag voted against a Government proposal to impose social requirements, we can apply the collective agreement through the regulatory letters and the requirements of the state companies. There is no need for legislation, but rather for the owner. We taxpayers should know with certainty that the activities and procurements made by the state are also serious and at the fairest conditions.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-428	Mr President, I would like to The whole discussion is about state-owned companies acting exemplaryly. We should be honest that this sector is one of the dirtiest industries. It is one of the sectors where people have really been most exploited and where many companies experience unfair competition. More effort is needed than just looking at state-owned companies. You have to look at how the rules are met in the Swedish labour market. It is a broad work that needs to be done to clean up the transport industry in Sweden.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-429	There are no further notified questioners. That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and Members who have participated in it.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-430	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I and the government are behind the decision taken by the Council of Higher Education (UHR) regarding regulations on the evaluation of foreign grades and what impact assessments I and the government have on the decision regarding the risk that this decision will drive study assignments out of the country. In recent times, I have answered a number of written questions from the opposition about the valuation of foreign upper secondary grades, which largely concern the same thing. I stand by those answers. Let me begin by saying that I agree with Alexandra Anstrell that IB education is a good and important education that provides a good preparation for higher education. With regard to the UHR, I would like to say the following. UHR as an authority has an authorisation in the Higher Education Ordinance to provide regulations on merit evaluation of grades. UHR has submitted a proposal for new regulations on the valuation of foreign grades and taken into account referral points, and after that the Board of Directors of the Agency has made a decision. The agency's mission is to ensure, as far as possible, that different groups of applicants to the university compete on equal terms. There is nothing in the UHR's actions that gives me reason to question the way in which the Authority carries out its mission. On the subject of substance, I would like to emphasise that I have great respect for the concerns expressed, not least by representatives of IB education. On the other hand, I am afraid that the worry is largely based on ignorance. The question of how IB grades are to be valued is part of a much larger whole and is linked to the reform of the former bourgeois government. The year-old who started upper secondary school in autumn 2011 had much more difficulty getting the highest grade than it had been before. During a transitional period, therefore, a temporary selection group was created for applicants with grades from the new upper secondary school. This group will cease from autumn 2017. The foreign grades (including IB grades) have so far been evaluated in relation to the grading of the previous upper secondary school, where there were considerably more students than now who received the highest possible grade. In order for applicants with foreign grades not to systematically compete out of the new upper secondary school when the temporary selection group ends in the autumn, the assessment of the foreign grades must be adapted to the grading in the new upper secondary school. UHR's starting point has been that the proportion of pupils with grades from, for example, IB education who receive the highest possible merit should be equal to the proportion of pupils in the most comparable group in the Swedish upper secondary school. The group that IB students will primarily compete with the places are students who have attended the new upper secondary school. In the new merit assessment, both groups will find it more difficult than before to obtain the highest possible merit. As a result, the merit values required to be adopted into popular higher education programmes are likely to fall. This does not mean that it will be more difficult to be admitted to popular higher education programmes, even if fewer applicants from IB courses receive the highest possible merit than before. I would like to emphasise this very much, Mr President. There is therefore nothing to suggest that applicants with IB grades will not be able to compete well with applicants from the new upper secondary school. That is why I do not think that the changes that have been decided by the UHR are in danger of driving study assignments out of the country. Without an adjusted assessment of foreign grades, however, the consequence would be that the students who attended the Swedish upper secondary school would find it difficult to compete for the places of popular higher education. That would be unfortunate.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-439	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Knutsson for his reply. The Government says in its reply that in the past there were considerably more students who received the highest possible grade in upper secondary school than now. With the change in Gy 11 it is now considerably more difficult than before to get the highest grade in upper secondary school. Then, just as now, the IB programs have their seven-grade grade scale, where a student can get a maximum of 45 points in his degree. The grades are still of high quality and are set externally after the final degree, which makes them largely inflationary. So there has been no change here. The grade conversion on which UHR's figures are based applies to students with upper secondary school degrees. 76 per cent of IB students receive upper secondary general school degrees and 94 per cent in upper secondary general school obtain upper secondary general school degrees. Thus, fewer students receive upper secondary school degrees at IB than in upper secondary school. A reasonable conclusion may be that it is more difficult to obtain a diploma from IB than a high school degree from a regular program. Mr President, I would like to It is important to highlight in the debate that 1 out of 465 in the world reaches 45 points on IB. In Sweden, 1,330 students completed their final degree in 2015. Two of these scored 45 points. Instead, if you build this grade conversion on all students, where upper secondary students with a merit of 9 or less and IB students with a rating of less than 24 both get zero, it shows that UHR's previous grade conversion for IB students has been quite good, except for those who are at 80 percent and above. A change there may be reasonable from that point of view. However, UHR's decision is too drastic, as IB's grade conversion is significantly below upper secondary school grades. This difference has even increased compared to how they were converted in relation to Gy 94. A calculation with all the students included by a statistician and professor of economics shows a different conversion scale, which in many respects lands in a similar way as we have had in the past but is more accurate in terms of the last 20 percent – and I thought it was just justice we were looking for. Mr President, I would like to I would like to repeat my introduction. In the past, therefore, there were considerably more students than now who received the highest possible grade in upper secondary school. With the change in Gy 11, it is thus considerably more difficult to get the highest rating, which was also the intention. But the IB programmes have not changed. It has thus become more difficult to get higher grades in upper secondary school, which the Gy 11 reform is about, among other things, and which is good, but there has been no change in IB grades. The fact that you want to convert them harder because you have made a rapture of high school is for me a riddle. The UHR today reports that changes in merit rating are the hardest hit on programs where high merit points are required to be adopted. That's exactly where these students are affected. In her reply, the Prime Minister says that she is afraid that the concerns about the IB conversion are based on ignorance. But when worried critics are principals, school leaders' associations, political representatives and a professor of economics, I become more afraid that we have a government that does not take responsibility. Criticism has been put to the UHR for the statistics, but critics have been told that this is the usual method. That minus and minus is plus, I'm in, but wrong plus wrong is just a double error. I urge the Minister to seize this opportunity. There is time to steer this.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-454	Mr President, I would like to Today, the UHR was in the Committee on Education to discuss this particular issue. They were clear that they had been given a government mandate that included using a purely statistical method and that there would be no transitional arrangements. The latter means that it affects retroactively. Students who have graduated, already attend or have applied for the IB programme will experience that their ability to apply for higher education has changed completely. Either they should re-enter upper secondary school, re-select or change programmes in the middle of their upper secondary school hours in order to remedy this. IB students have previously been in the same quota group as those with the old upper secondary school grades, i.e. G, VG and MVG. These, in the quota group called Gy 00, may retain their valuation while those who have expired IB may see their valuation and their ratings change retroactively. UHR's motivation for using a statistical method of revaluation instead of a qualitative analysis is that it would be necessary to look at so many different international educations, which is not possible and feasible. However, I think that IB has a special position compared to other international upper secondary education. These students attend Swedish upper secondary schools in Sweden to a large extent, and the IB programme is like a secondary school programme among several. The question is, is it reasonable to do this? Most IB students apply for Swedish higher education. They have attended Swedish upper secondary schools, and have lived in Sweden throughout their upper secondary school period. It would be reasonable for them to be treated the same as other high school students rather than lumped together with students who have attended international training courses abroad. I think that we in Sweden should protect the type of education that IB is. It is a high-quality education that ensures that grades are fair and not subject to inflation. It also gives the opportunity to choose different courses abroad. I wonder whether the Government is prepared to review this issue and demand a qualitative analysis and to allow IB to take on a special position compared with other international secondary programmes that are included in the same quota. I also wonder whether the Government is prepared to develop transitional arrangements so that those who have already left IB or go there today are not severely affected.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-462	Mr President, I would like to As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, I have, as I said, respect for the concerns expressed from several quarters about the possibility of further studies by both present and future IB students. However, I believe that the concern is partly unfounded. I cannot see that the changes that have been decided, which will apply equally from the same time, would make it relatively difficult to enter popular higher education programmes. That is the important thing to stress. Nor do I see any reason why it would have a retroactive effect of any kind. The Authority has the task of following the consequences of its decisions and the outcome of these decisions. I will also follow the agency's work on this through our government dialogues to see if there will be the effects that are feared – but for which I cannot see today that there is no basis. It is important that we have an equivalent admission system. No one should benefit or be disadvantaged. We also need to ensure that the study skills we have in the Swedish upper secondary school can compete on the same terms for the attractive higher education programmes. With regard to the transition to the new secondary school's credit assessment from the old one, this type of transitional provision was sought. However, when students who have the new upper secondary school grades gradually come in, we see that they are distributed in comparison to the IB students, which are compared to the old grades. This is what I don't think is okay. I think it is important that we neither benefit nor disadvantage any students. We all need talent, whether they have attended international education or a Swedish upper secondary education. In answer to the question of comparison, I would like to say that with the new system fewer will achieve the highest merit both within the Swedish upper secondary school and within IB. This means that the merit values for these higher education institutions will fall and will thus have the same opportunities to compete for the places. In fact, recent foreign grades have been heavily over-represented among those admitted to the most popular higher education institutions, because Swedish upper secondary school students have been disadvantaged as the new merit assessment in the new upper secondary school has increased in proportion. Therefore, it is important that the adjustment is made, so we get an equal admission to our higher education. As I said, I shall follow this up closely and conduct a dialogue on how the Authority follows up its decision and whether there are grounds for the concerns expressed by the opposition and those actually concerned. Today I cannot see that there are grounds for this concern.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-472	Mr President, I would like to IB's rating conversion is a much-discussed question. A lot of people have been in touch with me and they've been worried. Last night Linnea heard from herself, a student who reads the last year at IB in Jönköping. Linnea, in addition to my questions in the interpellation, demands a qualitative comparison between IB and Swedish programmes, i.e. a study of what is required of the students to achieve high grades in the respective school system. Mr President, I would like to I will read aloud from Linneas's email: UHR seems to have compared IB students and students on the scientific program. They have seen that these students have equivalent grades from high school but that IB students then withdraw and receive higher grades from high school than natural students. Haven't they thought there might be a reason for that? It may actually be that the IB system places higher demands on its students and that this results in higher grades. The rating difference, I mean, doesn't have to be due to a mathematical error in the grade translation. It may be that IB students actually go out with higher grades than students on scientific programs, point.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-476	Another relevant question, just as Maria Stockhaus raised, is why earlier IB students' grades are devalued when the high school students who have G, VG or MVG are allowed to keep their grades? Would it not be reasonable to have an equal treatment principle whereby IB students can retain their previous conversion and thus be treated equally with the pupils with whom they have already shared the quota group? UHR's decision was made when students in grade 3 had already chosen and started their programme and thus were not able to change their choice. Similarly, students who have taken one year's leave of study after graduation in 2016. Furthermore, students who graduate this year are also affected. Yesterday I received another email from an assistant vice-chancellor of one of Sweden's IB programmes. He is also the principal of other programs, ordinary high school programs. He told us that they are now in the process of applying to the UK, which is due to be ready on Friday, tomorrow. They are now breaking record in the number of applications to the UK, i.e. that the students are looking away from Sweden. Being able to take part in an education that provides access to both Swedish and international universities attracts many Swedish young people today. Then let us hope that this is not a national trend, based on the ignorance that the Minister is talking about.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-480	Mr President, I would like to That we should have a fair and equal admission system, I don't think anyone questions. It's extremely important. It is also important that the effort required to get a higher grade can be seen in the evaluation made by the grades, if you do not have a Swedish upper secondary school grade. It is precisely such a qualitative analysis of IB that we are asking for, with this training actually being carried out in Sweden – an analysis in which you go deeper into the education rather than lumping it together in a statistical drive, as you do when you look at other international upper secondary schools. I would like to have a comment on retroactivity, because I think it is quite remarkable. It undermines confidence in political decisions taken on important issues such as education and the future of students. When choosing an education, you must be confident that the criteria and conditions that apply will also apply when you have completed the training and that they will not be changed retroactively, as in this case. I would like to know whether the Government thinks that it is reasonable to act in this way – that decisions are allowed to have efficiency retroactively. To follow developments and have contact with the agency does not help Linnea and her classmates, who are sitting right in the middle of this right now. It'll probably be too late for them.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-484	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I have already commented on this. I do not see any factual basis for the concern that this will have a retroactive effect of any kind. On the contrary, I see that it was an important measure that had to be taken in order not to disadvantage Swedish students who have attended the new Swedish upper secondary school. They were greatly disadvantaged as they increased in number. However, a transitional period was needed for this. We must have an admission system that neither benefits nor disadvantages anyone. This is also the mission of the UHR. It is an authority decision that the agency's board has taken on the basis of their mission, that we should have equal admission to higher education. We should take care of our talents, but they are available not only in IB educations but also in Swedish upper secondary school. They must also be able to compete with their merit values in order to gain access to the popular training courses, and it is much more difficult now to reach the highest values. I could never imagine having a system where they are systematically disadvantaged, and I hope neither can the Moderates. The UHR's mission is, as I said, to get an equal admission. This is what they've been working on. I have not seen anything in their decision-making documents that makes me think that they have done wrong in this process. On the contrary, I have great respect for the authority's competence, also when it comes to valuing various training courses. They work on this daily and do it very well. Having said that, one of my tasks is to follow if what you are worried about actually happens, but at present I cannot see that there is a factual basis for this concern. The agency has a responsibility to follow up its decisions to see that they lead to what is the mission, namely to get an equivalent admission to Swedish higher education.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-489	Mr President, I would like to With the system proposed by the UHR, where 20 upper secondary schools are required for many courses, Sweden becomes the only country in the world where universities require almost a maximum of 45 points from IB upper secondary schools for admission. To be admitted to Cambridge, which ranks as Europe's leading university, is currently required 40 points or more. But to get into many Swedish higher education institutions, this proposal will require 44 – 45 points as well as full pot of merit for an IB student. Against this, the Social Democratic Council for Schoolborgers in Stockholm has also argued meritably in Dagens Samhälle. He and Lotta Edholm from the Liberals argue in the article that the change proposed by UHR will lead to IB programmes losing their attractiveness for students in Sweden who plan to study at Swedish universities. Swedish students will opt out of IB education because the new conversion levels make it impossible for them, despite high grades, to compete for places at universities and colleges with students from the other upper secondary programmes. They further write that those students who still choose to attend the IB programme will not apply to higher education in Sweden, with lower international ranking, but to foreign countries who welcome them. My question to the Minister is: is their concern also based on ignorance?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-494	Mr President, I would like to I thank Alexandra Anstrell for a specific question. But we have not yet seen where the entry levels will end up with this new system. That is why neither you nor I can answer that question. When there are fewer people who can reach the highest levels of merit – but we do not reduce the number of places in these popular higher education institutions – the merit values that are needed to get in will probably fall. Then you can very well come in as an IB student even if you have not reached the highest merit value, in the same way as a Swedish student who has attended Swedish upper secondary school and who has not reached the highest merit yet can be admitted to these popular higher education programmes on the same and equal terms. That's what's important. I hope once again that the Moderates do not want any other kind of sour cream but that we will have an equal admission to our higher education, so that both talents that have attended IB education and talents that have attended Swedish upper secondary school will have the opportunity to enter Swedish higher education and that they will compete equally. This is the mission that the UHR has now carried out, and an independent authority decision has also been taken. In the usual way, I will follow this, just as the authority itself has the task of following it. But for me as Minister of Higher Education, it is incredibly important that we have an equal and transparent admission system that neither benefits nor disadvantages anyone.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-497	Mr President, I would like to Hans Rothenberg has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation how the Minister and the Government have analysed the consequences of Sweden's decision at the European Space Agency's ministerial meeting at the beginning of December to invest a small part of the funds identified by Esa as necessary for Swedish participation in the European launcher Ariane, and how the Minister intends to act to deal with the consequences of the decision. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The future of the European launcher programmes in Esa was already decided at the 2014 ministerial meeting. At the ministerial meeting in December 2016, Sweden made some additional commitments to fulfil the commitments entered into in 2014 for the existing Ariane 5 rocket generation and the upcoming Ariane 6 rocket generation, which is under development. This means that Sweden added more than EUR 27 million in addition to the commitments of EUR 89.5 million made in 2014. In addition, the Swedish National Space Board has undertaken to finance operations within the Ariane 6 programme for SEK 190 million in the future to cover GKN Aerospace's need for support for production equipment. With the new commitments, launchers continue to be the area within Esa that receives the largest Swedish investments. Over the next three years, the National Space Board will pay SEK 250 – 300 million annually to the Esa launcher program. This represents almost 40% of Sweden's payments to Esa. The Swedish initiatives on various Esa programmes are based on the Swedish Space Board's assessment of how the greatest benefits for the overall Swedish space activities can be achieved for both societal benefit and research as well as early technology development and for the Swedish space industry. The Government has confidence in the Swedish Space Agency's assessment and management of Sweden's participation in the ESA programme. When it comes to funds that Esa should have identified as necessary for Swedish participation, this is not true in the way that Rothenberg described. Of course, Esa welcomes all the funds that Esa can get from the Member States to the various programmes, but it is Sweden that determines the appropriate level of funding with which we participate. On the other hand, there are requests from GKN Aerospace for full state financing of their development and production of components for the launchers without their own co-financing, despite the fact that the company belongs to a large international and listed group. In addition to the doubts in principle about such a large amount of state funding for a private company's activities, it would also mean a level of the Swedish contribution that is not sustainable, taking into account the Space Board's grants and assignments and the needs of other Swedish space activities. As regards the future of GKN Aerospace in Trollhättan, I hope that the ongoing dialogue between the Swedish Space Agency and GKN Aerospace will deliver positive results that will enable both continued contracts to the company and continued employment for its highly qualified employees, while maintaining a good balance between Sweden's various commitments in European space cooperation. Part of the responsibility for achieving such a positive result lies with the company itself and requires responsible and sound business and economic considerations. Through the Swedish National Space Board, the state has stretched very far already through its ambition to create opportunities for GKN Aerospace to get contracts within Esa's launcher program. The Swedish commitment to the political goal of independent European access to space, and more specifically to the existing Ariane 5 rocket and the upcoming Ariane 6 rocket, is solid and has further increased with the latest ministerial meeting in Esa. Even if GKN Aerospace were to conclude that the company was still unable to comply with the commitments made and the business contracts they have entered into, it does not mean that Sweden is withdrawing from the launcher programme. In addition to GKN Aerospace, RUAG Space in Mölndal also has contracts for the delivery of components to the Arianerakets.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-503	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. As I have written in my interpellation, Europe's space ministers met within the framework of the Space Agency, Esa, recently. Sweden then chose to invest a small part of the funds that Esa indicated as necessary for Swedish participation in the European launcher Ariane. This has had consequences. The reason I put the interpellation to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg is that I actually think it lands very right there. It's a rather strange order that space issues are at the Department of Education. They've previously been in the Ministry of Enterprise. This is very much a business of innovation and advanced economic activity. Finally, the consequences of such business activities not being able to function well will land at the Ministry of Industry and Labour. The company GKN in Trollhättan is usually called Europe's Center of Excellence for nozzles and turbines for the Arianeraketen. These are activities that also provide synergies to civil and military aircraft engine business. Technology and development work is funded by Sweden via Esa and is under the Swedish Space Agency's grant. Sweden has been involved in this work since the 1970s. Sweden has, as I said, since December chosen to invest considerably less than what Esa wants. This is not just a signal language, it is a signal language that has consequences. It is a need that Esa has pointed out based on the demands of the different rockets. For example, the investments in the smaller Vegaraket were oversubscribed by the Esa countries while Sweden's contribution became zero, although this is a programme in which Sweden and GKN participate. Unfortunately, this means that this company cannot maintain its expertise in rocket nozzles, nor can it deliver on the basis of Sweden's commitments and ambitions at previous ministerial meetings. The Minister mentions here that it is a listed company, and then they will obviously be able to fend for themselves. You could say that. After all, however, all suppliers in these rocket programs have been given tough commitments to deliver better products at significantly lower prices. This is something that GKN and many other companies have been involved in negotiations and have committed themselves to. However, it has also removed many of the important margins that prevent them from making other commitments. The Minister refers to the Space Board. Yes, it's good to have confidence in the Space Board, but it doesn't do impact assessments and social assessments. It looks at its budget and priorities within it. I have several interpellation debates during the day, and all the ministers refer to an authority. I don't think that's how Axel Oxenstierna imagined it when he started the Swedish government structure. I repeat my questions. How have the Minister and the Government analysed the consequences of this decision? How does the Minister intend to act to deal with the consequences of the same?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-511	Mr President, I would like to Europe's space ministers met before Christmas, and the essence of that meeting in terms of Sweden's commitment and the government's priorities is that there is not enough money to complete Swedish participation in the European launcher programme Ariane. The programme is about Europe having its own access to space, which has been a priority objective for Sweden and other European countries. The government's activities here, Mr President, also undermine the space industry which currently employs around 150, not only qualified but very qualified, workers in Trollhättan and is likely to be dismantled or relocated abroad. This also means, in fact, that Sweden leaves at very short notice an approximately thirty-year commitment to the joint launcher programme, which is likely to lead to delays in the programme in Europe and perhaps also cost increases for other participating countries. If you fold this out, Mr President, and look at the kind of notice that might come – as well as challenges for individual companies – you can see that entrepreneurs often act on a commercial basis, as was the case with Ericsson, for example, most recently and some others. It is on a commercial basis that one relates to doing things and taking action in one's business. In this case we are talking about a very qualified space business in Trollhättan, where responsibility lies with Minister Hellmark Knutsson and her colleagues in the government. It is therefore their activities and the assignments they give to various authorities that will decide whether the 150 jobs in Trollhättan remain or not. In fact, a non-action by the Minister means that, in the long run, the activities will be discontinued. You can also back down a few years, Mr President. The discussion is not new, but it has existed in the past. Just before 2010 – I think it was 2009 – this was up for discussion, and then leading Social Democratic representatives travelled to Trollhättan and said that the business must only remain. They fought for this, but obviously that line no longer applies. To sum up, Mr President, I think there are at least two fairly important issues that should be highlighted to the Minister in the discussion. The first question is why the government does not want to secure space operations in Trollhättan. If the Minister and the government do not do anything further, this will be closed down and 150 qualified jobs will disappear. The second issue is the impact of the government's activities in this area. When the government acts as it is now doing and this can be shut down in Trollhättan, what effects does it have on jobs, industry, space policy and security policy? What kind of analysis have you done, Minister?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-518	Mr President, I would like to I must begin by commenting on two points made here. Firstly, with regard to moving space issues to the Ministry of Education, it was something that was done under the previous government and that we have held on to. As a government, we are still collectively responsible for the decisions that are made, and at the Ministry of Education there are many issues of a different nature that are absolutely crucial for the business community. Space is just one of them. Secondly, we increased our commitments in connection with the ministerial meeting in December 2016. So it is not that we have reduced our commitments. Nor have we done so in relation to GKN, but we have been clear about what money is available for the purpose. So we stand by the commitments that Sweden has made, and we stand by the budgeting that has been made. If we are now to change budgeting, it is a question of reducing other space activities. This would mean that Sweden's efforts in areas such as Earth observation, telecommunications, technology development and other things would be reduced even further – as did the Council of Ministers in 2012, when the bourgeois government was responsible, precisely because it added more money to the launcher programme. As I said, we will not leave a launcher programme, but we will stand by both the commitment we made at the 2014 ministerial meeting and the enhanced commitments we made in 2016. We have also made sure that GKN Aerospace has access to money that was set aside for operations later on, so that they have access to this money already now to complete their mission. Negotiations are now under way because GKN Aerospace as the only company has returned and asked for even more money to meet its commitment. Should we add this money, we would, as I said, have to cut back on other space activities that are very important. Before the government takes any action, I would therefore like to wait and see how the negotiations that are going on between GKN Aerospace and the Space Board are going out and whether or not it will live up to its commitments. Then there may be reason for us to come back to this. I share the view that this is important and high-quality activity, but it is also important that we be careful about state money. This is, in fact, entirely publicly funded. I think there is a reasonable basis for private, large companies – who, of course, also benefit from participating in these major programmes, for example through the development of knowledge for their staff and through innovation and technology development that they can use in other parts of their company – being able to meet the commitments they have made. The commitments were also clear and clear when entering this programme together and gave GKN Aerospace the opportunity to be part of the European launcher programme.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-525	Mr President, I would like to I wonder if the minister has met GKN. It is clear that there are different pictures of the situation of the company and the authority. The Authority, as I mentioned earlier, makes its assessment from other aspects than an overall societal perspective. It might be appropriate to obtain information directly from both parties. In an interpellation debate in November last year, the Minister said that supporting European independent access to space is extremely important at the moment, not least in the light of what is happening. Sweden as a neutral and peaceful country, which puts the climate challenge high on the agenda, can then be involved in discussing how information from and access to space should be used. ..................................................... If we now choose not to fulfil our commitments and leave the European rocket industry, is it not a course of action in the opposite direction? I think this is a little bit to play roulette with such an important business. It is clear that the Space Board and GKN have not communicated in a way that has made the parties understand each other. Then it is time for the government to step in and try to get its own picture of this. The company in Trollhättan may be listed on the stock exchange, have foreign owners and be as big as any with any major shareholder, but if this company considers that it cannot fulfil its commitments it will have consequences. Maybe it's better to go to Trollhättan before it becomes a premonition for 150 people. Maybe it's better to prevent a crisis plan. Trollhättan has previously been the subject of various government engagements, both under Social Democratic and bourgeois governments. So my question is whether the Minister has met GKN directly. Is the Minister prepared to take the discussion face-to-face? In that case, we may not need to discuss this, and above all, we may not need to have a discussion about a possible crisis plan for Trollhättan and this cutting-edge technology activity that is important for Trollhättan, for Sweden and for the knowledge of launchers that is needed throughout Europe.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-530	Mr President, I would like to The minister wanted to tell you the facts. Let me build on this by saying something about what the Minister calls a priority and what happens if you follow it. The company in question, in Trollhättan, says that the commitment regarding the launcher program cannot be fulfilled. In the long run, 150 highly qualified jobs are threatened in Trollhättan. The Minister said that Sweden is not leaving the Ariane programme, the European launcher programme. This is absolutely true, but the issue here is that the Minister and the government, with their actions and their actions – or lack of action – are putting 150 highly qualified jobs in Trollhättan at risk. Mr President, I would like to Judging by the discussion now, the Minister does not seem prepared to change, which may lead to the loss of these jobs in Trollhättan. Here we can go back to the discussion that took place a number of years ago. Then party colleagues told the Minister clearly that this was an extremely important activity for Trollhättan, for Sweden and for Europe, and that it should be protected. We are not hearing those votes in the debate right now, for example from the current Group leader of the Social Democrats in the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to I would like to repeat one of my questions, namely that of impact and impact assessment. If it is the case that the Minister does not claim to be willing to do anything more – and we see that 150 jobs in this could be lost – how does the Minister view the consequences that her and the government's decisions have for jobs, industry, space policy and security policy?
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-535	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that the Space Board's mission as a state authority is precisely to make an overall social perspective assessment of how the money can be used in the best possible way. In connection with these ministerial meetings, when we have negotiated this programme and about the Swedish commitment, it has been in the picture that we have important industry that can deliver this. However, this is not just about one company, it is about several companies. GKN is by far the largest, but RUAG Aerospace also delivers components. They have not come back and asked for more money, but they have accepted the amount they received in connection with us making these decisions about the Swedish participation and the commitments made at the time to deliver components. You can also see the value of having this type of delivery to the launcher programs – the deliveries lead to competence development and technology development within the company and among the employees. The difference regarding GKN is that they have come back and want more money than was said when the commitments were made. This is what the Swedish National Space Board and GKN are now negotiating on. GKN has already received 190 million of future money to meet its commitments. So it is not true that the government has done nothing or that our authority has done nothing. We certainly have, and we have done so because this is important. It is important that Sweden honours its commitments. However, we cannot treat certain companies differently, and I hope you do not think so either. We must have equal treatment for the companies involved in the important space programmes included in the commitment. There must also be something that the company itself wants to contribute – something that you see is involved in developing its own business. In the case of such a large company, it is difficult to see that there is nothing that also gives them added value. What I have said is that it is important that the negotiations that are going on between the Space Board and GKN can be concluded. I hope that the Moderates share the view that we will allow them to conduct this dialogue. Sweden will not give the commitments we have made in connection with the launcher programmes, but we must ensure that we make the most of the tax money. We cannot treat certain companies differently. We will ensure that all the space industry that we have – which contributes to knowledge and jobs around Sweden, not least in West Sweden – will have the same conditions and not be treated differently.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-545	Mr President, I would like to You don't have to teach Moderates to save tax money. We are also working hard to be gentle with every penny of tax and, above all, not squeezing out every citizen more than is necessary. Reality is what you have to relate to. When reality changes and conditions are not exactly as they were five or six years ago, you have to be prepared to change your own attitude. I received no reply from the Minister in her last speech about whether she has been and met GKN in Trollhättan, face to face, or whether GKN has been to the department and visited. I think it would be very good if this happened. From what I understand, there have been no promises, or anything, from the Space Board that will allow you to judge that you can complete this program. I do not believe that there is an end in itself for any actor in important, advanced European high-tech programmes in stepping off unnecessarily. What value would there be? What pr-wise value would there be for a company in stepping off something? It would only give bad PR. You have to look at whether something has changed lately. I think it's very important that the Minister takes a meeting face to face. Otherwise, how does she deal with the consequences that I described in my two questions? What does the minister do if there are cuts in Trollhättan? Will it be Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg and Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson who will then be allowed to act? It is important to have a plan on this issue as well. I hope that the dialogue will allow this programme to be pursued by all parties.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-552	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Rothenberg for the questions. As I said, this dialogue is being conducted between the National Space Board and GKN Aerospace. The National Space Board has already been well-beneficial and released SEK 190 million from future payments. This money is beyond the money known for making this commitment. Now GKN wants additional money, and that is what you sit and negotiate about. As a minister, I cannot interfere with how this is handled by the authority, but it is on the authority to carry on this dialogue. GKN Aerospace is, as I said, the only company that has asked for money beyond the sum promised in connection with the commitments. If new money is to be added, other things will have to be cut off, and then you have no overall perspective on Swedish space activities. There is also a risk of special treatment for industrial enterprises. There are more industrial companies that are involved in delivering here, and these have not required new money. I very much hope that this is not a system that the Moderates advocate – that you can come back and ask for more money, that the minister or government then go in and make promises and that we get different ways of managing private companies. It is important that they can compete on the same terms and be involved in this important activity. There is certainly reason to come back to this issue. Of course, I agree that we should continue to have independent access to space and that Sweden should fulfil its commitments to the European Union.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-559	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I intend to do to open up the possibility for more players to buy rights on the 700-megahertz band.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-560	It is PTS's task to design the detailed conditions for how frequencies should be allocated in accordance with the Electronic Communications Act. How PTS will design the spectrum ceiling for a forthcoming auction is not possible today. In general terms, however, it should be emphasised that when it comes to competition for spectrum and the setting of spectrum ceilings at auctions, PTS assesses the entire relevant market. This means that PTS in its design of the spectrum ceiling looks at what the entire market looks like when it comes to mobile operators' spectrum availability of frequencies with similar characteristics, i.e. frequencies below 1 gigahertz. This means that in its assessment the Authority analyses the total holding of spectrum by different operators, which includes frequency holdings in the 800 and 900 megahertz bands. I apologise if it is a bit technical, perhaps not for Mr Rothenberg, but there may be others who do not think that this is a direct everyday language.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-564	Mr President, I would like to Then perhaps we can try to speak on the same wavelength on this issue. Yes, this is extremely technical. It is difficult to give a description without attacking all these concepts. But I will give a background to the fact that I have written the interpellation and put the question to the minister. In 2014, the government decided to open up the 700-megahertz band for mobile broadband from och in 2017. The spectrum of 700 ‐ meg a hertz band is particularly favourable for mobile broadband services in sparsely populated areas, as it provides greater surface coverage of spectrum in the higher bands. Thus, the opening of this band helps to improve mobile coverage in sparsely populated areas. This is an important step in order to increase the conditions for living and working in sparsely populated areas. When the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency last auctioned a spectrum, it involved twice 30 megahertz in the 800-megahertz band, i.e. a few hundred megahertz per group. It is a frequency width that an operator needs in order to use its spectrum most efficiently. Now I come to what the question is really about. This meant that at least three players had the opportunity to buy spectrum in this band. But for the upcoming auctioning of the corresponding megahertz, the 700 band we are talking about, the spectrum ceiling has instead been set at 2 times 20 megahertz. This means that if an operator offers rights to the corresponding new spectrum ceiling, only two operators will be able to buy rights. Apart from all technical terms, what is at the heart of the issue is that it means that fewer players can be involved. It also means a restriction of competition. Mr President, I would like to In 2009, in the Swedish broadband strategy, the government stated very ambitiously that Sweden should have world-class broadband. The goal should be that by 2020 90% of households and businesses should have access to broadband by at least 100 megabits per second. This is an objective that PTS now assesses to be achieved. To the broadband target, the government added in 2011 to a digital agenda for Sweden the goal that Sweden should also be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-571	In this context, it is important for more people to have the opportunity to bid for rights. It is important from a rural perspective, and it is important from a competition perspective. I do not really get the hang of it if the Minister is concerned that there are fewer players who can bid now or if there is something that does not matter much, so let this be my question here and now.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-573	Mr President, I would like to It may be that Hans Rothenberg did not really follow before Christmas, as we were all tired. But just before Christmas, the government adopted a new broadband strategy, as I proposed, with greatly increased ambitions and objectives both for mobile networks and for fixed broadband to households and businesses. This is very important, because it means that we have the ambition today, unlike before, that everyone should be able to have good and fast access to the internet and also stable and good mobile networks all over Sweden. This will require continued substantial investment, both from private and public players, to ensure that rural areas are properly involved. With regard to the concrete issues of how new bands are to be distributed to companies, we have the order that it is the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority that decides how the distribution is to take place. Now we have temporarily stopped the distribution and auctioning of the so-called 700 band, but the Government's ambition is that it should be released as quickly as possible and that it should preferably not be delayed until 2018. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's earlier proposal regarding its intended auction was not that there had to be only two players who would receive spectrum, but there was a ceiling of 2 times 20 megahertz. However, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency had prepared that there could be five actors, because it is not certain that everyone wants or needs to buy such a large amount. It's a lot about what you already have before. It's not that it's a new system for each new band, for example, operators can have 4G in several different bands. There may be individual operators who are starting to get full in their network and need more capacity and then maybe buy 2 times 20, while others have more space left and may only need 2 times 5 megahertz. If PTS were to complete the auction that had been prepared, there could be more than two, perhaps three, four or five, who eventually buy parts of these tapes at the auction and add them to their previous holdings and thus strengthen and expand their networks. Finally, I am not worried that PTS's proposal would lead to reduced competition – we already have competition on the networks – but I think that PTS is thinking this through very carefully. I have great confidence that they can handle this part.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-578	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, I take it that the Minister has the ambition that there will be more actors in the procurement procedure, but then it is important that this is done in a way that makes it possible. I assume that there is dialogue between the government and the authority. Although Axel Oxenstierna wanted strict barriers between the exercise of authority, legislation and executive power, there must still be room for the government to share its ambition here. We are talking about two things: on the one hand, the issue of competition and, on the other, the award procedure. As far as competition is concerned, the promotion of competition is mentioned as one of two main factors for achieving the overall objectives of the law. Both goals and success factors are set out in the law's portal clause. It says that the aim should be achieved primarily by promoting competition and international harmonisation in this area. However, universal service must always be available for all equivalent conditions throughout the country at affordable prices. ..................................................... As far as licensing is concerned, the Government cannot simply point out that it is PTS's responsibility. It is stated that the government or the authority that the government decides – the government can be the one that decides – is the one that decides which conditions apply when granting the permit. It is therefore perfectly possible for the government to make a government question of this if it wishes to do so. I think it is important to put this in context. When mobile and data coverage becomes more or less like a utility that can be compared with access to running water and fresh air, this must not fall due to the creation of unnecessarily tight oligopoly. It is enough that you yourself be without a mobile phone and the access to information that today is everyday for a few hours to feel transferred about two decades back in time. Given the long distances that exist between people, rural areas are extremely sensitive to this, which I believe the Minister is very much in favour of.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-584	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree with Mr Rothenberg that it is extremely important for rural areas in particular that we have good mobile networks in Sweden. I wouldn't say that it's as important as running water and fresh air, but in modern society it's incredibly important. It is perfectly reasonable to compare with other infrastructure such as electricity or roads. This is also the reason why the government has greatly increased its ambitions for the whole of Sweden to be involved in having good mobile networks and access to fixed broadband within a few years. With regard to the specific issue of allocation and how it is done, I can agree that it is the government that governs the authorities. There is an opportunity to control. It can be done through legislation, through regulatory letters and in other ways. But I think the government should be careful not to go into a single decision, because then there is a risk that it will violate the constitution and constitution. I've been in the KU a little too long to take that risk. With the experience I have, I do not think that one needs to be particularly afraid that competition will be reduced at the moment. We have pretty good competition in terms of the expansion of both mobile and broadband networks in Sweden. It is among the best in Europe. Our strategy of market-driven development works relatively well so far. When allocating a new spectrum and a new area to be auctioned in order for the market to have additional capacity for mobile networks, this does not have to mean at all a reduction in competition. Even if only two, three or four companies get access to the 700 band, after we may have distributed to the defence – they have also had ambitions to get part of this network – and the blue light authorities, it doesn't have to mean less competition. The other networks and frequency bands that have already been auctioned remain in place. Competition continues. The most important thing is that we get an auction for those who have already crowded their networks. This is one reason why we are in a hurry. The sooner we get this out, the better competition will be, even if only two players would eventually buy, I mean.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-589	Mr President, I would like to I take the Minister's answer as meaning that this is a question that the government will be looking into. Moving from three possible players to two is not like reducing from 30 to 20, but it is a much narrower road. I very much hope that all the parties involved – both the Authority and the Government – will make further efforts to increase competition in this area. I will follow the issue of reliable broadband, whether it is in urban or rural areas. I thank the Minister for the debate. Now I intend to devote myself to developing a plan for reliable vocal cords.
i-98a330ea67bf8efd-591	Mr President, I would like to I think you should be careful of your bands, whether they are vocal cords or the megahertz bands that we are talking about here, because they are natural resources that are finite. At least they can't be replaced either way. Both the vocal cords and the frequency bands we are talking about are a natural resource with which we should be careful. Competition in this area is very important. It is it that ensures that we get a good situation and opportunities for Swedish consumers, companies and households to be able to use the internet and mobile phones in a way that does not cost the shirt. You can be active, and this helps Sweden to be part of the world's peak when it comes to developing new apps, new applications and new technologies. New companies are also being created in this area. I am pleased that we are well ahead and that Swedish consumers are well ahead. I am also pleased that we have an authority with good competence in this area. I trust that it will ensure that we continue to have good competition. And when we add new capacity to existing networks, I believe that it does not contribute to less competition but rather increases it and that the opportunities for more companies to participate are improved.
