i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-6	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Alliance Party's motion and the moderate committee motion, i.e. Amendments Nos 1 and 14. This week began with a joint visit by the Committee on Economic Affairs to one of our regions, namely Västerbotten. Incubators, basic research, innovation, design, world-class education, energy issues, wood industry, food, minerals, infrastructure, etc. have been on the agenda. One of the pictures that the committee presented to a company said: It is a motto that can be passed on to the wealth and business of companies, industry and entrepreneurship in our country and which also allows Sweden to continue to compete with other countries and be a global player on a world market. The uniqueness of Västerbotten's various companies and entrepreneurs can be transferred to other parts of the country, which, with its regions and locations, has a potential and opportunity to switch up. The strength lies in getting the best of the differences that exist in cities, rural areas, small towns, suburbs, sparsely populated areas and nature and culture. Difficulties and challenges are involved in recruiting the right workforce. This applies, in particular, to engineers and special skills that companies located in towns and cities need and require in order to function. Similarly, the cities have their shortage occupations. It is important for Sweden to be able to employ staff who want to and can move to our country, and that is why it is also important to have labour immigration for an open business community. The development of rural and urban areas must not become each other's opposites as they are many times, but rather an approach that strengthens and challenges everyone. Our cities must be able to continue to grow with nodes that attract knowledge and businesses from all corners of the world. This also applies to companies in the country so that we can continue to be a global player and a country where people want to go because we are at the forefront. Urban growth together with development in the country is important for us to be able to attract precisely the labour force that there is a shortage and for companies to want to stay and develop and, together with new companies, develop research and the future. Old companies with renewed mindset create new opportunities for customers and companies to become attractive companies offering new solutions. There is great potential here. When you listen to how e.g. EQT has worked with digitalisation in a new way, you see the potential of today's and tomorrow's new opportunities for our country, along with everything that happens in ordinary everyday life. Mr President, I would like to In the tourism industry, the desire for quiet tourism grows. Silence is something that Sweden has plenty of. Here it is about nature experiences when you get to live easily and live with nature, which is something that is becoming more and more attractive. Many people want to pay a lot to experience this. This is what we in our country are going to take care of. Within the industry there is potential with destinations that connect to each other where you can stay, visit and experience not least food and drink from the local. In addition, the thresholds are low if you want to enter the labour market. The industry is ready, but the government has not got Arbetsförmedlingen to deliver its part, which stops and slows down opportunities. Rural areas have gained a new boost with farm sales of food and beverages. This applies not least to apple must from my home area in Skåne. Together with others, we want to see a tourism industry that can take advantage of breweries and local vineyards. These contribute to a whole for the tourism industry, and they have the opportunity to operate fully within the framework of both EU legislation and Systembolaget. In several localities, market halls grow, and local products are in demand. There is a great potential here for small businesses to deliver agricultural products and other products and services to the public, unless the government's eagerness to stack regulations on each other makes it difficult for these companies to sell in public procurement. The law barely had time to go through before appeals were lodged that authorities have talked about collective agreements despite the fact that there has already been another agreement at local level. If nothing happens, this will be troublingly forward. In our country we have the strength of city and country, agriculture, forestry, archipelago, sea, lakes, industry, entrepreneurship, industries based on different sectors and industries, research and development. Then we cannot put our businesses on the hook by reducing their opportunities for competition. Action at national level is needed for jobs, education and entrepreneurship, which interact with regional growth efforts. Here, the Swedish Board of Agriculture, Vinnova and the Swedish Agency for Growth play a role, and they are ambitious members when it comes to the proper use of EU money. Sweden has something to take care of here. We have to put in place the right things at home, and we have to steer things up in Brussels. We should have the money to measure and transparently follow up project funds in a good way. At the destinations I have travelled to, I understand that Leader money characterised by initiatives from the local and regional levels is being hampered or even stranded because it takes too long for mills in the Swedish Agriculture Agency to grind, and you do not get money for what you need. That's not how it's supposed to be. It is important that we have authorities that interact with regions and at local level to make the most of the benefits we can get, as well as that we have mature activities that can stand on their own with a sustainable long-term perspective. Companies and industry should not have to pull the handbrake because it takes time to get answers or because it takes time due to investigation or legal proceedings. A modern society that is to continue to develop must have an exchange where the idea is to create the future together, not to stop, prevent and ban. It is therefore problematic that the government's policy includes both taxes and increased regulatory constraints. The government has proposed a road-wear tax, which is called a kilometre tax. This harmful tax is now to be reformed – for what? If we turn our country so that the north ends up in Europe, we end up in Italy. For those transports that are so crucial to reaching out with our goods and products for export, it takes many miles before they even reach Europe. Trucks allowed to take more cargo have been allowed in a couple of places, but they cannot make it from point A to point B. It's like small islands where they can drive, and it's not connected. In addition, the flight is needed. We believe in developing technology, not in taxing a means of transport so that neighbouring countries take over transport, and we ourselves are without opportunities. Here we need to do good, and this benefit is to be done for the sake of the environment, which is not the case now. It seems more like filling empty holes in government cash. This is the wrong way to go, and the government should reconsider. Regional growth starts locally with business to live and live in different places. Service is a part of the whole country being able to live. While this issue is so important, I must mention the Reepalus investigation into private actors who run health centres and schools in places where they have sustainable thinking and have staff who thrive and stay and where those who live on the ground have continuity. By way of example, I can mention the health centre at a locality in Jämtland or Västerbotten where the county council places demands on That means they're supposed to have a surplus of maybe half a million to exist and work. The county councils want this protection. At the same time, the investigation says it doesn't want any profit. How will this fit with the service that the government claims to want throughout the country? Mr President, I would like to Regional growth is based on decisions covering a wide range of policy areas, such as infrastructure, communications, jobs, education, research, green industries and industrial policy in general. All of this affects the different regions in places where people live, live, work and work commutes. I would therefore like to call for the approval of technology, digitalisation, development, jobs, entrepreneurship and stimulation instead of taxes and charges that prevent and inhibit.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-28	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Regional growth is a prerequisite for being able to live in all of Sweden's regions. In order to create regional growth, a good business environment is needed that benefits entrepreneurship, but a good public service is also needed that is aimed at both businesses and citizens. Companies are also dependent on those with the right skills having both the conditions and the will to live in the places where the companies operate. Small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, have the greatest growth potential. That's where four out of five jobs are created. The Swedish Democrats are therefore keen to reduce costs and administrative costs for the country's companies. We therefore have a wide range of proposals that would make it easier for small and new businesses to grow. The Swedish Democrats want to completely abolish the general payroll tax for companies with up to nine employees. This would correspond to a tax relief of up to SEK 265,500 per year for a company with nine employees or more. This means that a total of 300 000 small businesses would be entirely free of the general wage levy. Today's design of the company's health pay liability poses a risk in recruitment for the smallest companies in particular. This thus seems to be a threshold for growth. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to reduce the burden of sickness pay by means of a sickness pay deduction. With our proposal, a company is allowed to deduct its sick pay costs up to SEK 30 000 per year, which reduces the burden on micro and small businesses. The Swedish Democrats want to increase the number of permitted exemptions in the order rules in LAS from two to five. We want to give employers greater opportunities to retain key people with the right skills. This proposal also reduces the lock-in effects on workers with long working experience. We also want to invest in a new form of apprenticeship that should be a kind of hybrid between the public and the private. Apprenticeship can be compared to a probationary employment with a statutory minimum wage, but the employer does not have to pay employers' contributions altogether. It shall be valid for a maximum of three years and shall then lead to a regular permanent contract of employment. The apprenticeship system focuses first and foremost on young people entering upper secondary school, but will also target adults who are excluded from the labour market. Swedish companies have compared with many other countries a busy and costly administration around laws, rules and regulations. Both present and former governments have failed to reduce the regulatory burden. There is a clear example of small businesses. A comparison has been made between governments. When the current government took office, the regulatory burden decreased. Then it increased again. This is why the Swedish Democrats want to introduce a system in which industry and government collaborate to systematically remove existing rules that stand in the way of growth. We want to cut considerably into unnecessary detailed regulations. Mr President, I would like to Tourism is also an important and contributing industry to create regional growth throughout Sweden. Tourism's share of Sweden's GDP is greater than the combined share of agriculture, forestry, professional fishing and the food industry. The fact that tourism is significant for regional growth is evident from the following statistics: In 2015, Swedish tourism accounted for 2.7 per cent of Sweden's total economy. The number of overnight stays abroad grew by 10.4 per cent, which is the largest growth in 20 years. Total employment in the tourism industry in 2015 totalled 165,400 persons, which is an increase of 9,000 employed or 5.8 per cent since 2014. Over the same period, overseas tourism increased by 20%. China and India accounted for almost half of the visits. Total tourist consumption increased in 2015 by SEK 18.5 billion or 7 per cent compared with the previous year. In total, the Swedish tourism industry has increased by an average of 4.4 per cent per year since 2000. This shows how important this industry is for Sweden. The summer months of June, July and August accounted for almost half of the volumes of the tourism industry. However, there is a clear trend, namely that tourism is growing steadily in the autumn and winter months. The so-called climate tourism to colder countries such as Sweden is expected to increase with the warmer climate. This creates good opportunities for the Swedish tourism industry with regard to Sweden's cool climate, beautiful nature and beautiful landscapes. That is something we should take care of. Mr President, I would like to Through a good business climate, good public service and increased tourism, the Swedish Democrats believe that there are good conditions for regional growth throughout Sweden. That is something we will prioritise.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-39	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support the reservations expressed by all the Centre Party in this report, but in order to save some time, I would only ask for reservation 1 and reservation 9. Regional growth policy is an important instrument if you want people to live and realise their dreams wherever they live in the country. Is this possible today? What is regional equality like? If you take a historical look at the regional population-adjusted GDP in Sweden from 1860 to today, you can see that there are no obvious links between equality in GDP per capita and population concentration. The first wave of industrialisation between 1860 and 1910 reduced gaps in both income and population terms. It was also a liberal period in which, for example, passports were abolished for domestic travel. The narrowing of disparities in the industrialisation process can be seen as a result of good conditions, as Sweden managed to achieve regional convergence, i.e. reducing regional inequality, despite the fact that the opposite took place in many other European countries. Moreover, this convergence occurred without the involvement of any regional policy measures. In the post-war period, active regional policy helped to create historically low disparities in GDP per capita, but at the cost of an increased depopulation of certain parts of the country. The move also met with sharp criticism from the people. I'm sure there's a lot of people who remember expressions that we've moved into. Ams got the interpretation. Everyone had to go south. I remember these expressions from the '70s. A policy of solidarity on wages and an active industrial policy has accelerated this structural change. Therefore, the regional disparities in GDP per capita were record low in the early 80s. At the same time, there was a regional problem which was linked to differences in population density rather than to GDP per capita. Mr President, I would like to Since the 1980s, the trend has increased disparities in both population density and GDP per capita, a combination of trends that are historically unique. We see a new kind of regional exclusion that risks threatening the cohesion of society. Depopulation in Swedish municipalities is a real problem. Over the past 40 years, the population has fallen in almost half of the country's municipalities. Low population numbers hamper the maintenance of social functions such as school, health care and police. In addition, smaller municipalities may find it difficult to recruit and retain the necessary specialist skills. This is true both in the private sector and in the public sector. As big cities' role as growth engines increases, it may seem natural that infrastructure efforts are directed towards these areas. It is particularly prominent in cases where municipalities are invited to co-finance part of the state initiative themselves. The idea of the big city as a national growth engine may then be in contradiction with the principle of benefiting the less-favoured areas. But if government resources are spent on improving the role of big cities as growth engines, it may seem reasonable that some of the growth goes back to the whole kingdom. Today's historical challenges, with increasing differences in both GDP per capita and population density, require political action if we are serious about the whole country living. The division we see in Sweden also exists in other countries. Globalisation has brought much good, but there are also people who cannot or cannot take part in the progress of globalisation. To be able to give people confidence in the future is perhaps the most important regional policy decision we can make in this House. The alternative to this we have already seen through the presidential elections in the United States, Brexit, the elections in France, Holland and Germany, and developments in Poland, Hungary and Russia. We have also seen it here in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to If we want to reduce the regional divide in a long-term and sustainable way, this cannot be done by means of grants or by creating jobs that are not demand-driven. The basis for a positive development throughout the country is that it is good conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs. Increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship do not benefit growth and entrepreneurship, and this applies to the whole country. Regional growth policy is not just an issue that needs to be discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It is an issue that must be seen when both the parliament and the government deal with issues such as infrastructure, communications, jobs, education and business policy in general. A well-functioning infrastructure and more housing are needed in smaller and larger cities, towns and villages. Without the possibility of work commuting and freight transport, the job engine stops in Sweden. Putting national distance taxes on air and lorry transport in the EU's second most sparsely populated country is not a good regional policy. No matter where people live, they should have equal opportunities to settle, work and run businesses. Equal opportunities mean a good school, access to mobile telephony, broadband, fuel, food, public service, communications, culture and nature. Equivalent opportunities throughout the country do not automatically imply uniformity. The same challenge can be solved in different ways in different parts of the country. If you pursue a local policy, where decisions are made close to people, you make such a development possible. Mr President, I would like to The Government and the Riksdag have clearly stated that they want the agencies' activities to be decentralised, but it is slow. Many believe that it is the business sector that has gone ahead in centralising activities. In fact, it is the state that has taken the lead in centralising. This development must be reversed. I and the Center Party believe that the tasks of the authorities must be decentralised to a great extent. Access to commercial services is a prerequisite for viable societies. It is about giving the local country dealer or gas station in the village the conditions to remain and provide good service. Local services are often a prerequisite for a small rural area to function. Me and the Center Party are seeing alarming signs that access to cash management is declining in many locations. It is therefore important that we review the impact of reduced cash management on smaller communities and business life in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to Tax bases are an effective tool for increasing people's influence over their everyday lives. That is why I and the Center Party want tax policy to be used as a tool for growth creation throughout the country. This can be made possible by regionalising several parts of the State property tax in order to strengthen the level of regional decision-making and the ability of the regions to pursue growth-friendly policies on the basis of their own conditions. Well-functioning, autonomous and strong regions are crucial for strengthening regional competitiveness and creating better conditions for entrepreneurship, innovation and investment. It goes without saying to me and the Center Party that people should be allowed to retain the fruits of their own work to a greater extent. It is equally obvious that regions that contribute with valuable production may retain parts of their value. It must pay for municipalities and regions to improve their business environment, make productive investments and give land to infrastructure and production. The Center Party therefore believes that the Riksdag should invite the Government to investigate how the proceeds from the property tax for industrial properties and electricity-producing properties can be regionalised. In a first step, it is reasonable to examine how the property tax on electricity-producing properties can be regionalised in order to return some of the value from climate-smart energy production to the regions concerned. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the report contains a reservation from the Centre Party and the Left Party on local development and the Leader method. We share the view expressed in the motion that the Leader method should be used for rural development throughout the country. It is a local decision-making on project funding for local development based on local conditions. For unclear reasons, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has removed 5 out of 53 areas in Sweden that are now unable to drive local development. This means that we do not have a coherent rural policy throughout Sweden, which is unfortunate.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-58	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the issues that lie at my heart here in Parliament, namely regional growth and, above all, rural policy. Although we are not going to make any revolutionary decisions for rural areas today, I think that the debate on rural policy has changed radically since last year's debate. From being an issue that has been quite far down the political agenda, it is today an issue that is rising higher and higher. We often hear how rural issues are highlighted by party leaders from both the right and the left. What is the reason for this? Yes, I would say that the final report of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development presented on 4 January this year has had a great impact. It combined with a development in our surrounding world with, for example, the election of Donald Trump has raised the issue of the division between city and country on the political agenda. This has meant that we see Jonas Sjöstedt and Annie Lööf going on a debate tour in Sweden together, that we see state minister Stefan Löfven visiting locations such as Lessebo, Grängesberg and Sveg, and that the big city newspaper DN invests in a freelance network with 20 employees freelance journalists around Sweden. I think it was very important for the Rural Committee's policy to show a will by putting forward a total of 75 proposals in broad agreement. It sends a clear signal that rural areas are important and that politicians in the Swedish parliament will care. At the same time, it is important that rural policy does not fall off the political agenda and that the conflict between parties persists. It is rather a health sign than something dangerous if different parties have different ideas and visions for what development they want to see in Sweden's countryside. Rural areas need more political conflict, not less. The great interest of nearly 500 consultation bodies shows the importance of the Rural Committee's proposals. But now it's serious. It's about delivering. That responsibility falls heavily on Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. This time it is not possible to wait and be delayed. Sven-Erik-Erik, you have actually promised that a bill will be placed on Parliament's table in spring 2018 on rural areas. You have to keep that promise. At the same time, I would like to mention how wrong I feel that some of the referral bodies have ended up. There are, for example, student organisations and some universities that have criticised the Rural Committee's proposal to strengthen higher education throughout the country. There is concern that academic quality will suffer. I think nothing has been understood. The Rural Committee has clearly demonstrated the wide differences in education levels between rural and urban areas. The longer the distance we come from a university or college, the lower the level of education. To close this gap, so that Sweden is not shared, we need to clearly identify from politics the Academy's responsibility for broader recruitment through the possibilities of distance education and education at municipal education centres. The Committee's proposal to set aside funding for studies in 23 municipalities will also help to increase the attractiveness of studying further if you live in rural areas or want to move to rural areas. Several regional federations believe that they can handle state affairs and do not believe that rural delegations should be set up in each county. I think the regions have completely missed the target. Regional self-government in Sweden will continue, but the state needs to care more about Sweden's rural areas and not less. Then it goes without saying that the state itself, in dialogue with regions and other actors, should bring together its regional structure so that it can fulfil the state responsibility in the best possible way. A couple of government agencies and also the trade union ST have criticised the Rural Committee's proposal to relocate 10,000 state jobs from the Stockholm area to other parts of Sweden within a period of five to seven years. What you can see is that over the past ten years, just under 10,000 jobs have moved to Stockholm or new government jobs have only been created here. In a number of counties, the number of government jobs has decreased while the total number of government jobs has increased. This has meant that Stockholm today has 18 000 too many government jobs in proportion to its population. We also know that six out of ten government agencies head offices are located in Stockholm and that two out of three government jobs are located in Stockholm, Västra Götaland, Uppsala, Skåne and Östergötland. The other 16 counties may divide the last third. The trade union ST has also criticised the Committee for not proposing any money for relocating and relocating government jobs. The fact that the Committee came to that conclusion is mainly due to the obvious fact that there is no cost of moving the jobs to Stockholm. Then you should also be able to afford to move the jobs out of there. If the government makes a different assessment in specific cases, it is of course not something I think one should oppose. The fact that there is a cost to move things from Stockholm when there is no one to move in is just illogical. The government has so far taken only a few steps towards the Rural Committee's proposals. It has decided on 100 jobs at the Swedish Agency for Health in Kalmar, 19 jobs at Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen in Karlstad and now 30 jobs at SCB, which will be moved to Örebro. It's not enough by a long way, and it's still too much focus on large cities – although I, as a Heater, of course appreciate the move to Karlstad. More decisions are needed, and it is appropriate to take them when changing the Director-General. As in the case of the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, the government can now take a decision that the Director General will be in Karlstad, where the agency has its largest office, and not in Stockholm. If the government makes this kind of decision, it will, as the Rural Committee proposes, lead to a better regional balance in Sweden and reduce the urban norm that we see today has established itself within the state. Mr President, I would like to Another area where we can see that the Rural Committee's work has produced a clear result is that in December Sweden received a new broadband target of 100 per cent of Sweden's population having access to broadband of 100 megabits per second. This is something that the Rural Committee called for in its interim report but which the Left Party was in fact the first to propose already the year before it. Last week there was also a proposal on the so-called basic level of data traffic, where PTS now proposes to raise it from 1 megabit to 5 megabits per second. I think it is very good to raise it, but I think that we as politicians must dare go further. All parties should probably think about whether it is not 10 megabits per second they should actually have as their goal, so that we can reach the Rural Committee's proposal of 30 megabits in 2025. I turn to the Left Party proposal today. The Left Party has five reservations. What is called the Leader method, which has later changed its name to localised development, has been a success story in Swedish rural areas since it was introduced in 1996. This has meant local decision-making on project funding for local development based on local conditions. The work has been carried out in accordance with the so-called Leader method, which involves a three-partnership between local businesses, the non-profit sector and public actors – mainly municipalities. Financial funding has followed the EU's programming periods with seven-year budgets, which is why it was necessary to restart the Leader areas in 2015. However, the Swedish Board of Agriculture decided to exclude 5 areas out of 63, on the grounds that they were not considered to have good enough strategies to become priorities in the budget. In this way, excluding five areas – involving 437 000 rural inhabitants in 31 municipalities from 8 counties from the north to the south – from forming Leader areas is very bad. These five areas are all those that have been included in previous programming periods and where local skills and experience have been built up for a long time. Not including these leads to a less coherent rural policy, as not all areas have the same conditions. It's nothing but unfortunate. The government should therefore ensure that the Leader method is used for rural development throughout the country. Why not make a special experimental effort in these five specific areas? There should really be no political difference of opinion on this, and I am pleased that the Center Party supports the Left Party's motion on this issue. If we are to have a regional growth policy that works, we cannot opt out of certain areas, but Sweden must be kept together. Like the rest of society, rural areas are not equal. Men and women have different standards and opportunities to relate. As rural areas are often characterised by traditions, there is a risk of cementing unequal structures. Statistics show that more women than men move away from rural areas, while surveys show that more women would like to live in rural areas. The social climate in the district can then be crucial. Statistics by county administrative boards Speaking of women and men in 2016, men's take-up of parental benefit in rural municipalities varies, but in some places it is very low. Previous studies in the rural development programme have shown that, in spite of the intention to contribute to gender equality, in some parts, it reinforces existing gender standards. This may be due to the fact that the design of the aid scheme benefits men, who, on a general level, often want to make greater investments, while women often choose step-by-step investments. Now that the government has decided, after negotiations with the Left Party, to establish a gender equality agency, it is a golden position to formulate gender equality in areas where success and results have been difficult in the past. Therefore, the government should instruct the relevant authorities to make proposals for an equal rural policy. Hydropower generates huge sums of money. Nevertheless, a very small part of this comes to the fore. Instead, the government has chosen to reduce the property tax on hydroelectric power through the energy policy agreement, and there is no other solution to return money to the municipalities than through the rural epoch. Me and the Left Party want a larger part of the power companies' profits to be returned to the municipalities where hydropower is located. We also want a wind farm to be set up in the same way as in the case of hydroelectric power, so that it can be restored in the form of land means or compensation for intrusions. It should be regulated by law. This year we in the Left Party have also chosen to highlight the transport contribution in our industrial movement. We want to be clear that we have no plans to reduce the transport subsidy. A review of the transport contribution should be carried out to examine the knowledge of the aid, whether it can be directed towards more environmentally friendly modes of transport, how well the percentages of different municipalities work and whether it gives the industries in northern Sweden equal opportunities to compete. Having said that, I would like to endorse reservation 18.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-85	Mr President, I would like to Globalisation leads to changes that have different impacts in different parts of Sweden. Society changes. Urbanisation is fundamentally based on people's free choice, something that I and the Liberals defend. At the same time, there are challenges in terms of differences between cities with a strong, growing private service sector and areas with high vulnerability and local challenges in the form of a few industrial employers. In municipalities where day-to-day notice and depopulation are day-to-day, the consequence is an ageing population and a reduced tax base. The starting point for me as a liberal is the protection of people's power over their own situation and the ability to create their own future. A liberal rural policy seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in smaller urban areas. Mr President, I would like to I grew up in the metropolis of Sveg myself. Sveg is a main town in Härjedalen, where there is less than one person per square kilometre. There is beautiful nature and plenty of room for both animal life and the ravages, I can promise. But in order for people to want to live and companies to operate throughout Sweden, and also in Härjedalen, it is important that there is access to functioning basic service at a reasonable distance. This applies to public authorities as well as municipal and commercial services. Mr President, I would like to I do not represent Sveg but Uppsala County here in the Riksdag. That Uppsala Municipality is the municipality in Sweden with the most residents in rural areas, I don't think so many people knew. About a quarter of the municipality's population, i.e. nearly 50 000 people, live outside Uppsala City. The rural and urban areas are therefore important for the development of the entire municipality, and here we have found good synergies and transport opportunities between rural and urban areas. Of course, it is a minor challenge to cope with this in Uppsala, which is an integral part of the Mälardal region, than in Härjedalen, for example, but it is possible to improve the conditions for rural areas in the rest of the country as well. Enterprise development, labour supply, education, access to public and commercial services and investment in IT and infrastructure are the key elements of regional growth policy. It is also a prerequisite for living outside urban areas. The maintenance of a basic level of service throughout the country is also important for you to feel safe everywhere, and it is also necessary for the whole of Sweden to be able to contribute to the reception of refugees in a positive way. The various functions of society need to be available in rural and sparsely populated municipalities as well as in urban municipalities, Mr President. In sparsely populated areas, I believe that service solutions based primarily on local conditions and collaboration between entrepreneurs and civil society have the opportunity to become long-term. A good way, I think, is to set up service centres, for example, in connection with the local retail trade or other established gathering points in rural communities. The Alliance government made some such efforts. We note that the Government has announced that it does not intend to present a proposal on mileage or distance-based road wear tax for heavy goods vehicles, but that it intends to come back with a new proposal during its term of office. In this connection, I would like to emphasise that regional development in Sweden depends on long-distance transport. Rural businesses and various sectors are already struggling with small margins in an international and competitive market. Additional charges would hit jobs hard outside the big cities. The Liberals proposed in their budget last autumn a rescheduling of the travel allowance. The proposal provides for the deduction to be limited in regions with well-functioning public transport and for the deduction to be more generous where public transport is less extended. In other words, you need the car more when you live in the country. In the city it is easier to take the bus. In conclusion, I would like to ask for reservation 1 in paragraph 1.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-94	Mr President, I would like to I have a good friend who is a professor and a futurist or maybe a visionary. He usually asks me: Why does Sweden have a rural minister? Why not? I usually answer. We have had this dialogue a number of times. Then he says: Most of Sweden is rural. Do you have to have a special minister for that? It would be better to have a minister for urban areas and metropolitan areas, because that is where exclusion is first and foremost. I think he has an interesting point. It may well be that the exclusion that we talk about is a phenomenon that exists in the million-dollar programme areas in a little larger cities as well as in rural areas. You don't feel like you're part of the rest of society. You don't feel like you have the same service as everyone else. You do not feel that you have the security with the police present or the proximity to care that everyone else has. Maybe he's not so wrong really, my good friend professor. In Sweden we have an equality spirit within us. We hate not feeling treated equally. Then it is wrong, and something strikes within us in all our legal knowledge. You want to be treated equally. There is precisely the heart of regional growth policy, I dare say: to actually see the opportunities for all Swedish citizens to be able to feel equally treated in not least health care, for which I am happy to work extra much in this case. When it comes to regional growth, it is probably just as big a step for many to dare to settle in the outside area of Kronogården in my hometown of Trollhättan as outside the town of the small town of Sjuntorp with 1,500 inhabitants. It's just that you don't really see it all the time. When it comes to the need for equal service from the state, someone said that the offer on Hemnet, the site where housing of different kinds can be hunted, and the offer on the Arbetsförmedlingen website per location coincides. Someone had studied this. I don't know if that's true, but if it does, it's quite interesting. If, for example, in Degerfors, where I grew up, sometimes only three properties are for sale at Hemnet and three four vacant jobs, there may be a truth to that. Of course, it may not be very attractive to move to a place if there is no place to live and there are no jobs. That goes without saying. And then Degerfors is still a town that is not far from larger cities. I believe that, as a Christian Democrat, regional growth policy could have had a better and greater impact over the next few years if a dead hand had not been put on this regional inquiry. The investigation is completely dead, and so is the development potential. Regions in other countries have significantly more inhabitants. It is not sustainable to think that we have a region in Blekinge or Halland or any other small province and county. We need to think a little bit bigger. The strange thing is that the spirit of equality that I was talking about did not strike in anyone's legal knowledge when it was discussed precisely the regional division. I very much hope that we, as parties, will have the courage to tackle this issue, because it is only then that I believe that we can even out the big differences. Mr President, I would like to In fact, I would like to highlight the discussion on health care in this debate, although it may not be considered as a growth issue in itself. But security and enterprise policy are interrelated. If people are to dare live in the countryside, they must also know that there is medical care when they need it. It is not fair to be able to get better treatment in one part of the country than in the other. It's not supposed to have anything to do with economics. The Health Act is super clear about that. It shouldn't matter who you are or where you live. It's supposed to be equal. And equal does not mean that it is exactly the same, but one should at least be able to value what is equal and not. Another issue that does not have that dimension at all may seem to be, but which is still incredibly important is the tourism industry that several of my colleagues have talked about in the past. The hospitality industry I usually say is one of the few industries where people of all kinds could get jobs. Both researchers and trainers in the field are needed to highlight the importance of the tourism industry for Sweden. Not least, you need to be better at developing this in your respective areas. I thought it was interesting when we were on our trip from Sunday to Tuesday up in Västerbotten and visited the town of Bygdsiljum, where my colleague Helena has lived. The place is not large, but there is one of Sweden's most well-known cheeses, namely Västerbottensost stone. Who hasn't eaten a pie made from such cheese? It's very good. There is a potential in small towns to develop their specialities. There is a potential to develop precisely what is important for that place, and I dare say that Bygdsiljum and Kronogården in Trollhättan could actually have something in common. Is cheese made at Kronogården? No, it doesn't. But there are many other specialties there. Not least, the tourism industry has the potential to develop in all these places. Mr President, I would like to I would also like us to see the possibility of the multi-culture that has come to Sweden in recent years and that we do not see it as a threat, but as an opportunity to develop people's interests and abilities based on the countries and cultures from which they come. Then we will have substantial and sensible regional growth.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-107	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start where Ann-Ann-Charlotte started and where Penilla ended, that is, with us making a fantastically interesting trip in Västerbotten. There were many good visits during the trip. I note that this report on regional growth policy reflects many of the issues that we encountered in Västerbotten and the opportunities and conditions that exist there. This report deals with many of the motions that came in this autumn. This is an interesting area, because regional growth policy spans many areas. It is dealt with not only in the Committee on Economic Affairs but also in the Committee on Education, the Committee on the Environment, Agriculture and the Committee on Finance. The report deals with horizontal issues of regional growth, a national strategy for growth and basic services, the localisation and organisation of state authorities, which several have been involved in, commercial services in rural areas, local development and the Leader method, which Håkan was involved in a previous speech, an equal policy for rural areas and the development of certain counties and regions. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the government is pursuing a modern and active regional growth policy for the whole country. The regions will be given opportunities to grow and develop according to their specific conditions and priorities, both in urban and rural areas. In order to create regional growth, the government is carrying out a number of efforts. I would like to take a few examples: A new industrialisation is in place in Sweden with investments in, for example, railways, roads and broadband. In order to strengthen the Swedish innovation system, an Innovation Council has been set up, led by the Prime Minister. The Government wants to secure the supply of knowledge to companies outside the metropolitan regions through, for example, regional competence platforms and more places in Komvux, polytechnics, universities and higher education institutions. The Government's focus is on more cooperation and investment for the future so that Swedish small, medium-sized and large companies can grow and employ throughout the country. The government is setting up regional export centres in six counties according to the principle Mr President, I would like to Globalisation, digitalisation and demographic development pose major regional challenges for the future, with continued strong urban concentration and weaker development in some other parts of our country. This places great strain on the finances and activities of many municipalities, as well as difficulties in coping with labour supply in both the public and private sectors. The biggest challenges will be faced by sparsely populated municipalities with large distances to larger cities. As far as labour supply is concerned, much of the country has a shortage of highly educated people in general, but above all there is a large shortage in schools, health care, care and those with technical training in the private sector. It is therefore of the utmost importance to exploit the potential of the new immigrants to Sweden. The regions and municipalities that can offer housing, municipal services and good integration into the labour market can make good investments for the future. Mr President, I would like to The Regional Fund is part of the EU's cohesion policy to strengthen the competitiveness of the Member States. In total, the Regional Fund programmes cover 16 billion for investment in jobs and growth. The programmes will respond to the major societal challenges: demographic development, globalisation, climate, environment and energy, and the need for inclusive growth. By pooling and focusing efforts where they are most useful, the funds can be used more efficiently. 80% – 13 billion in money – is spent on strengthening innovation capacity, transforming into a green economy and improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. Improved access to broadband means that the business community is developing in all parts of our country. From the Regional Fund, more than SEK 1.4 billion will be added for increased and more efficient broadband deployment by 2020. To this can be added 4.25 billion from the rural development programme over the same period. Today, there is a lack of a well-coordinated rural policy that addresses the challenges that rural areas are actually facing. The government therefore appointed a parliamentary committee in 2015, which issued its final report on 4 January this year. The final report has now been consulted and, after the consultation round, almost 500 responses have been received. The work to compile the answers is now at its best, and the outcome of the consultation will of course be extremely valuable in the Government's continued proposal work. We know that the government plans to present a bill with a coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas in the spring of 2018. The ambition is to put forward a rural policy that is solid and that lasts over a longer period of time. This requires a long-term and continuous work with a clear structure and vision for Sweden's rural areas. The views expressed in the consultation document are important input into this work. Although the proposal is planned for spring 2018, some of the proposals from the Parliamentary Rural Committee may be presented already this year. In addition, some proposals have already been taken care of. One example, which came into place before the Rural Committee started and which we see the effect of today, is support for commercial service. We can see that the closure of services and small shops has stopped; we have reversed this trend, but of course more is needed. Another example is the broadband strategy adopted by the government in December. The new broadband strategy has ambitious targets that include significantly increased speeds but also, for the first time, include the entire country's population and businesses. Another example is that the Government decided on 12 January on a mission to a special investigator, who will make proposals on ways to improve the financing conditions for new and redevelopment of housing. The question of so-called rural loans, as the Rural Committee proposes, will be further analysed in the context of this particular mission. One final example is the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development's proposal on the relocation of state jobs. The government believes that the state presence in the country needs to increase and that the government needs to assume its responsibility for Sweden holding together. Several initiatives have been taken to strengthen the state presence throughout the country. Among other things, Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi is tasked with ensuring that every citizen has access to basic services, regardless of where they live in the country. Another decision is that the E-Health Agency will be relocated to Kalmar. I look with great interest and confidence at what is to come from the 75 proposals that the Rural Committee has come up with a broad consensus and recommended to the government to present to the House. I call for the motions contained in the report to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-129	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I mentioned the concept of climate tourism. It is a new phenomenon that means that people travel from hot to cold countries precisely because they want the cold climate. With Sweden having a cold climate most of the year, I see great potential in this tourism. I wonder what the Social Democrats think about that concept and what you would like to do to increase climate tourism to Sweden.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-130	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has great challenges, and I would first like to address the climate. It is not just about tourism, it is also forced to move from places on earth because of climate change and the warming of the earth and settle elsewhere. There are other conditions. The climate here in Sweden is not so hot. There is an attraction in traveling to other places just as we want to tourist in warmer climates. Those who live in countries with completely different conditions may want to come to Sweden. There are nice ski resorts and a well-developed tourism that needs to take further steps to develop – this to meet the needs that arise around the world if you want that kind of tourism. Of course, we are in favour of tourism. Even if it is at the forefront, you need to take further steps to develop it.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-133	Mr President, I would like to It is good to hear that the Social Democrats think that we need to continue to develop climate tourism. There is a huge potential in this area, and that is something we should invest in. Thank you for your answer.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-135	Mr President, I would like to What we need to discuss more and be clear about is climate policy. The development we have around the world, the research and the signals of the rising temperature require a stronger move from politics to ensure that this development is countered. All parties need to work further on this issue.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-136	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that there is a great deal in regional policy that unites us. But now I'm going to bring up things that separate us. The Business Board says that the regulatory burden has cost SEK 5.6 billion in 2016. Then you have not counted on either taxes or fees. This creates some problems for those who live with regulations where there is more and more to be taken into account and that makes it more difficult for them. I live in a small mill in Skåne called Bjuv. Findus just stopped delivering. The factory was shut down on April 30th, and 450 employees were allowed to leave. Plakatpolitik from the Social Democrats and the Left Party says that no pea should be allowed to leave the town or Sweden. It is very easy to use harsh words to achieve success, but when it comes to reality it is important to do the right things. Rules are problems when you look at the future of a country like Sweden, which is in the north and where companies say they want to move because they want to get closer to Europe. On our trip to Västerbotten we discussed this with transport costs. The companies there said it would have cost them 26 million if the proposals of the Social Democrats and the government had been introduced. I wonder if Mattias Jonsson believes in these companies when they tell them what it will cost them. It was even used to describe that this had been for – umm – severe blows. Then I wonder: Is this being taken seriously?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-142	Mr President, I would like to I am both concerned and concerned that activities that work are closed down and disappear or move. There you have to have an active policy to attract small, medium-sized and large companies so that they move to Sweden to work here. They're supposed to have good conditions. This will also allow more jobs to be created. You mentioned the rules, Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. You had eight years to change the rule, which was debated extensively in the electoral movement. I guess there hasn't been much of it. On the other hand, taxes and wage costs are always widely debated. Some people want legislation for the lowest wages. Contracts shall not require collective agreements. I took note of what Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson said in her speech, that competition is needed on equal terms. That is an important issue. But we from the Social Democrats have a different view of it compared to the Moderates. I do not understand why it is difficult for the Moderates to demand collective agreements so that there is competition on equal terms, so that rogue companies do not compete out serious companies. In this way, there will be unsound competition. I wonder if AnnAnn-Charlotte can explain to me how that policy goes together. It only creates distorted competition with what the Moderates propose.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-146	Mr President, I would like to We will have to come back so that I can also get an answer to the question of transport. First, I will answer the question of public procurement. It's no stranger than that there are different types of companies that work in different ways. That doesn't mean they're breaking laws. There are laws in Sweden that can be applied when there are wrong payments, people abuse the system and so on. The rules always exist, so you don't have to impose any charges on companies that are supposed to operate. For example, we all want strawberries for midsummer. If a family business is to sell strawberries, it does not have collective agreements, but it does not mean that you are evil or cheating as a farmer, but that means that you are a family business. Then you should also be able to contribute to good products at the local level. My idea is that local companies strengthen each other, and then they can grow at regional level. This increases the impact on the country. It's no stranger than that. Use the regulatory framework that exists in the law, and make sure that all kinds of companies can operate! Then I'd like to come back to the Reepalus investigation. Thus, there are places where there are people of flesh and blood who have education in the public sector, not least women, and who run a health centre, for example. They have done something good for their locality, but they need money to work. It's also service, but if they're shut down where others don't want to be, what are you supposed to do? Isn't it better that we look at quality and content and stop talking about this with profits? Wins are still needed as a buffer. It's an airbag to use if anything happens. I would like an answer to that from Mattias Jonsson. I would also like an answer to the question of how he intends local companies to deliver in the system of charges that is now being imposed on the public sector and with transport costs of 26 million.
i-Xv3W3bNzi7DcGmYVCrdQM3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! On the transport side, there is no concrete proposal. This issue has been discussed and debated, but there is no government proposal today, so we will have to come back to that issue. As far as the regulatory burden is concerned, there are some elements – I am absolutely convinced of it – where progress can be made to facilitate, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises. I think there's a possibility there. But this must not be done at the expense of the conditions for both companies and employees. There should be order and order, there should be tax systems and other things. We must have revenue for the state and security in the workplace. It must not be a work environment that risks harming people more than it does today. I note that we have had eight years of tax cuts of 130 billion. It has in no way created better conditions. It has reduced productivity. Unemployment and disparities in the country have increased. Today there was a report from Arbetsförmedlingen. Over the past year, unemployment in the Västra Götaland region has decreased by 1.5 per cent. Youth unemployment is record low and total unemployment is the lowest in nine years. I think it matters what kind of policy is being pursued. In these debates, we are always faced with regulatory problems, collective agreements and the issue that unites the Alliance, namely taxes. I've never seen anywhere where there's a stop. I do not understand how the proposals made by the Moderates for tax cuts to 2020 of around 80 billion strengthen rural areas and create better conditions.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-157	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Mattias Jonsson said in his speech, and I intend to use this line to press the government parties on the importance of presenting a bill for rural areas. Many people I meet say that they think the Rural Committee's proposals are good. It is very positive that we have agreed between many political parties on the proposals, but we are concerned that there will be none of them in reality. You've been disappointed so many times before. We have seen previous studies that have come up with positive proposals for rural areas but have never been implemented. One gets worried that we politicians should not dare during an election year and so on. Because, Mattias, I want to push. You yourself point out that it is important to present the proposal. I would like to send this call to you and the government parties and say that this is important. It is important that there are no delays. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has during his time as a minister had a number of proposals that have been very delayed. If you are going to pass a timetable by spring 2018, it is a bit tight before the Riksdag closes before the elections. Then it's important to get there. I also believe that political dialogue and compromise between all parties in this House are important. We see, of course, that we have found many good political compromises within the framework of the Rural Committee. So this is not much of a question, but rather a call.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-164	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the call! I broadly share this picture. We need to take some steps this year, but I believe that there are opportunities to present a proposal that is more comprehensive in the spring of 2018. I think it is very important, as you say in your speech. We also have broad agreement in the Rural Committee on what was presented on 4 January. There's only one reservation from the Liberals. It is a basis for us to be able to come up with broader proposals and a proposal in the spring of 2018. I think it is good that there is pressure and that this issue comes up more clearly on the agenda, including at party leadership level. The question of regional growth, rural areas and the 75 proposals of the Rural Committee is of course important. This must not be a desk product, but we must show the momentum and put forward concrete proposals.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-167	Mr President, I would like to I think it sounds very good, Mattias! I also hope that we see clear results, not just at the Ministry of Industry, where the Rural Committee's proposals become reality. The investigations that have been carried out have mainly been linked to the ministers in the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry. I think it is important for S and MPs here in Parliament to press their government for this also to apply to other areas where rural policy also needs to be considered. A clear area of this kind has been education, where rural skills are constantly being provided against research excellence and seen as a contradiction. I don't think there is. I don't think you think there is either. But only that there are politicians who believe that there is a conflict between rural areas and other ambitions – as a Band-Aid on a damaged leg that you are doing – is serious. There we both have a great responsibility to press for and use the right type of terminology and rhetoric and to actually show the benefits that rural areas bring in terms of, for example, Sweden's exports and economic development.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-169	Mr President, I would like to Håkan, I share that view! We need a coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas, and then we also need to have the courage to put forward proposals for concrete measures in order to achieve a coherent policy, a vibrant rural area and regional growth that works.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-170	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1, 2 and 6. Today we are debating the mineral policy report, which contains motions from general exercise time. To give some background on how important the mineral industry is for Sweden, I can mention that it employs in round rolls 7 500 people. Compared to other sectors, they may not be that many, but they account for about 25 billion of our exports. Sweden alone accounts for approximately 90% of total EU iron ore production. We also have one of the cleanest and most environmentally friendly mineral mines in the world. It is also the basis for the great prosperity that Sweden has. In Bankhallen here in Parliament we can see two large paintings of the industries that have supported us. One represents agriculture. The second depicts ore mining, which was the basis for Sweden's prosperity. It still accounts for a considerable part of our exports. The proposals made by the Moderates and, to some extent, the Alliance are about continuing to develop the mineral strategy put in place by the Alliance Government in 2013. It expires in 2017, and we see no indication that this work will be continued by the so-called uncial democratic government. Instead, it is said that it may in some way be incorporated into what is called the new industrialisation strategy. Unfortunately, many of the conclusions drawn in the mineral strategy are in danger of being lost. In addition, we come back to the problem we have on the Swedish labour market in general. I don't know if you've looked into the Swedish Beveridge curve. It looks almost impossible at the moment: unemployment is incredibly high at the same time as there is a huge shortage of labour, and this is happening during a boom. One important reason for this, of course, is the lack of skills. It is quite exciting that a country – not to mention this institution, Mr President, with the power of politics and all that – which is capable of training tens of thousands of gender-certified DJs, is unable to train 20 metallurgy, which is what it takes for us to have a functioning mineral system. This, if anything, is a political failure. In addition, you can see the long processing times in Sweden. It takes about six years between the first application and the decision. We already know what happens in a market when this happens. This is already the case in the housing market. Oligopol is formed. There will be a lack of competition, and it will also reduce profitability. It reduces the willingness of foreign investors to invest in Sweden. Of course, in activities that require large capital investments, it is better if these investments do not require tying up your money for an entire business cycle. Who knows what the interest rate is in six years? How do you know you can finance your business in six years' time? In particular, one looks at the mineral side, where mineral prices vary greatly. Then, of course, short processing times are important for us to have a good, functioning market. We also need long-term rules of play. It is important that Sweden's laws and regulations do not change hips as happy when it comes to environmental requirements and other requirements relating to these activities. If there is political instability on these issues, it in turn contributes to the fact that foreign investors are not ready to enter. It will also be more difficult for Swedish performers to compete with other European or international players. The Moderates, together with the others in the Alliance, propose to continue with the mineral strategy adopted in 2013 and to continue to develop a new one. In addition, we believe that ownership should be strengthened for landowners. In the case of approximately 99% of mineral mining in Sweden, the owner of the soil and the mineral itself are the same as the one who breaks it. But 1 percent is so-called concession mining, where the owner of the land is someone other than the one who breaks it. There is reason to see how the ownership of those who own the land can be strengthened. This also applies to claims in the event of bankruptcy, for example. In the event of bankruptcy, the claims of the landowners and those who own the minerals are of low priority. We believe that a review should be carried out to see what can be done to strengthen the ownership of landowners in relation to the mining companies.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-183	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report No 17 Mineral policy. The report deals, among other things, with issues relating to mineralisation and environmental issues related to the industry. Unfortunately, there is not much about the mining industry's conditions linked to, for example, energy and transport, as these issues end up in other reports. However, given the important position of the mining industry as a job creator and the large export share, I find these issues difficult to leave out of such a debate. In addition to the mining industry, we have a steel industry in Sweden, which also forms a vital part of the Swedish base industry. However, it is not at all affected in this report, but in the case of the mining and steel industry, the sectors have a number of common denominators which allow them both to benefit or be disadvantaged by a certain political orientation. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we are used to a positive net trade for goods. For a long time, however, there has been a trend of a worsening net, which in fact turned into negative figures during this term of office. The trend is straight without a stifling trend break, which is a most worrying development for our industry and for our economy. From the Swedish Democrats' side, as should be known by now, we are, of course, very keen to strengthen the Swedish industry in order to guarantee the welfare of our citizens. Mr President, I would like to The mining industry is a whimsical industry. The fluctuations in ore prices have recently been enormous. When the iron ore price was at peak, around 2011, the world market price was over $180 per tonne. It has fallen today to under $70. It's a decrease of about 60%. Thus, state-owned LKAB's profits skyrocketed in 2011 – it was nearly SEK 15 billion before tax – while last year's results were negative. Now there were certainly more reasons than just the ore price for the last year's poor results, but it is quite clear that the mining industry requires more long-termism than perhaps any other industry. In addition to fluctuating commodity prices, long lead times and huge investments precede each mining project. However, the mining industry and the steel industry together form a central part of our basic industry and exports. Although Sweden is quite small in an international context, we are by far the largest iron ore producer in the EU. That's where we account for about 90%. When it comes to the production of other metals, we are also among the top. What is absolutely not to belittle in this context is that the mining industry as a whole accounts for thousands of jobs, also often in places in Sweden where it is the mines that keep the towns alive. Mr President, I would like to As has been said, exports of both ore and refined metals are significant for the Swedish economy. Total exports of ore, steel and other metals amounted to 113 billion last year. That is almost 10% of total goods exports. The most important group of products among these remains steel products, where Swedish industry has niched itself by specializing in so-called high-performance steel. As far as steel is concerned, we in Sweden are actually importing about as much as we are exporting, measured by weight. But when we produce and export the so-called high-performance steel and import more of standard products, the export value is about 35 percent higher. By investing in more high-tech products, Sweden stands relatively well in competition and can thus continue to provide both tax revenues and jobs. Having said that, it should be clear to everyone how important the mineral-related industries are for Sweden and its prosperity. Therefore, it sometimes becomes difficult to hear how some, albeit indirectly, want to ruin the conditions for a strong Swedish mining and steel industry. When you talk to representatives of industry, a handful of concrete clouds of concern are coming up. It is about energy policy, for example. One looks with concern at how Swedish policy focuses on replacing everything that has worked and served us well for decades with cost-driven and unreliable weather-dependent electricity production. It is also about the poor maintenance of important transport infrastructure, which makes it difficult and costly for our basic industrial companies to get their goods on the market. It can also be noted that there is too little training for industry in subjects such as metallurgy and mining engineering. However, one of the main concerns is the often ill-considered and panicky climate policy, where Swedish industry is repeatedly provided with new competitive disadvantages. As you know, the EU has its emissions trading system, which puts European industry at a disadvantage and helps to drive it out of the EU and shift emissions to other parts of the world. Regardless of the colour of the government, Sweden has unfortunately been a driving force in this self-dilution. At home, a so-called road wear charge or mileage tax, as it is often called, is discussed. This would hit the basic industry, as well as the countryside as a whole, very hard when introduced. The government recently withdrew from an investigation into mileage tax, which was, of course, a reasonable decision. Nevertheless, it says it wants to introduce a variant already during the current term of office, which is of course a great risk to these companies. Mr President, I would like to One reason why both the steel industry and the mineral industry have had a tough time in recent years is that China has dumped world market prices for steel in particular. As China can hardly be regarded as a market economy, this creates a highly unhealthy competitive situation. This issue is currently on the table in the EU, which is discussing a new anti-dumping method against priced and subsidised imports from third countries. However, in this situation, the government is choosing to take a stand against changes in the regulatory framework that allow for the introduction of higher protective tariffs against, for example, subsidised steel from China. The Swedish Democrats are a trade-friendly party that sees the value of duty-free, but it must be fair rules of play and a level playing field. Therefore, it would be interesting to hear representatives from the government parties develop the reasoning as to why they do not seem to have the ambition to protect Swedish industry from price drops from a large and strong economy that does not follow the same rules as everyone else is forced to do. Mr President, I would like to In this report, the Swedish Democrats have two reservations. For time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 7, which is about adjusting the Swedish mineralisation. We believe that this is reasonable because a larger part of the value will then benefit society and citizens, for example when foreign mining companies exploit Swedish minerals. We also believe that there is a mutual interest between the state and the mining industry, and an increase in mineral compensation would make it easier for the state to pursue an active mining and mineral policy, not least with regard to infrastructure.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-197	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 9. Did you know that during your lifetime you will need 800 tons of minerals and metals? Although not everyone wants to admit it is new mines and increased access to metals and minerals is a prerequisite for modern society. Many also know that Sweden is a significant mining country in Europe and that much of our wealth is based on the ores and minerals extracted here. As many people know, Sweden is Europe's largest producer of iron ore and accounts for over 90% of the total EU iron ore production. We are also one of the main producers of many other base metals, such as copper, gold, silver and zinc. Some people wonder why we have to open more mines. Is it not enough to recycle the metal that we already have? Then let us remember that many people around the world are rising out of poverty today. This means that we see more homes being built, more and more people can afford a mobile phone and the infrastructure is being expanded. As this happens, the demand for ore and minerals also increases. Personally, I think it is presumptuous that we should deny other people an existence that we ourselves take for granted. How many people in this hall do not use mobile phones, drive cars, travel on steel - made trains, and cross bridges that connect islands, landscapes, and land with one another? Mr President, I would like to Another reason why more metals are needed is the new, advanced technology, many times for environmental purposes. It requires new types of metals that have not been used before and that need to be developed to a greater extent, such as rare earth metals that are quite abundant in Sweden. We are very good at recycling metals in our country. For example, in 2013 the world's largest recycling plant for electronic scrap was opened in Skellefteå, and some of us in the Committee on Economic Affairs also had the privilege of visiting Boliden and Rönnskärsverken with our delegation and looking at this with our own eyes. Of course we can improve recycling, but it must also be remembered that recycling can only replace part of the growing need for metals that is needed in the world. In addition, Mr President, there is another aspect worth highlighting in this context. Since we live in an increasingly troubled world, it is good that Sweden and the EU have their own access to ore and minerals and are not overly dependent on other countries. An own and increased level of supply is important not only for maintaining our standard of living but also for a competitive base industry. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish mining and steel industry is well ahead internationally with its climate-smart production. Making these sectors more difficult would increase market shares for industries in other countries that are less advanced in their climate work. But climate-smart production and high efficiency are also a competitive advantage for Sweden. A recent example of a wise, environmentally friendly and incipient innovation is the collaboration project Steel without Coal, which is a collaboration between three major players – LKAB, SSAB and Vattenfall – who are working to develop a process where iron can be manufactured using hydrogen instead of using dirty coal. However, for this to become a reality, society needs to help with test beds, for example, because this activity is as expensive as it is. In this context and as a proud Northerner, I can't help but mention LKAB, who has developed a lot of exciting innovations. These are the iron ore balls that are also called LKAB's green iron ore pellets. These bullets contain different materials in addition to iron ore and reduce the total emissions of carbon dioxide from the mine to steelworks blast furnaces by around 70 per cent compared to LKAB's competitors. You heard right-- that's fantastic and really world-class, isn't it? Mr President, I would like to My colleagues have also mentioned the permit processes for mining, which take far too long in Sweden. I think we can agree on that. There are very many authorities involved who are to give information, and it often happens that some or some of these agencies are asking for deferment, because they need more time to answer questions. This, in turn, means that the whole process is taking even more time, which may mean that it has been so long that the original application is considered outdated and must be supplemented, and then, you understand, the process starts again. Of course, this is about time and money. If Sweden is to be attractive for new investments, the process must be speeded up, and the review authorities must be given more resources. If we are to pass a legally secure review of all environmental issues for the growing mining industry, we must put in the legislation directly time frames for how long different types of processes actually take. To conclude, Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about rail transport. I heard former Josef Fransson from the Swedish Democrats mention this particular need. Then I would also like to point out that this need exists throughout the country, not least in northern Sweden, where much of the resources in the mining and steel industry are available. Unfortunately, we have not seen as many improvements as we need on the important railways so far. We are an export-dependent country and also a large country geographically. That is why we need transport opportunities for goods, not least in the mining and steel sector, as I mentioned earlier. As you know, priorities are usually made according to the needs of passenger transport, and my feeling is that goods often come second. Investments on behalf of the goods must be made, from north to south, and the needs are, to say the least, great. Personally, I find it somewhat provocative that the majority of infrastructure investments are made in and around the large cities. This is done at the expense of industry – an industry that is often located in sparsely populated areas. This, my friends, does not make Sweden more competitive, rather the opposite.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-215	Mr President, I would like to The subject being debated is really something that is important for Sweden, although most Swedes never see or will think about these assets or the basic industry as it actually is. I am, of course, talking about minerals and mining activities, which in turn give other industries platforms to lean on. There are cities in my county that would never have come to us if we had not had a mining industry, as there are towns and villages that would never have come to us if we had not had forestry. In Sweden there are a number of mineralisations with valuable substances, and the Swedish mining industry is very important for the EU and Sweden.In 2015, 72.7 million tonnes of ore were mined in Sweden. During the same year, Sweden contributed 90% of the EU's iron ore production. Sweden also belongs to the EU's leading producers of lead, copper and zinc. The majority of Sweden's ore exports today go to Europe, while a smaller share – only about 2 per cent – goes to China. With these insights, should the EU not be interested in helping with infrastructure for ore transport in Sweden? Although the mining industry is so important and relatively large, it is extremely sensitive to price fluctuations. Not least my municipality of residence, Pajala, was painfully experienced and felt in everyday life when the newly opened mining company Northland went bankrupt. This affects everyone in my municipality in some way, still and strongly. Here, however, ideas have emerged that are extremely interesting about a research facility adjacent to the mine and the facilities on the site. Now the hope of opening up mining is also lit again with new owners of the plant, and these are working exemplaryly to start the mine again. The work is now taking place with an understanding of the need to develop a more environmentally friendly, efficient and climate-smart mining industry. Research feels just right in time. The success of the work requires that all parties who can somehow influence a new start really do their utmost to open the mine and start the mine again. I am thinking of the owners, the private business community and also the authorities who can have a finger in the game. I am convinced that it is better to help so that the investment already made and the mine already started become an iron ore mine. It can provide society with resources, jobs and hope for the future, instead of everything that society has sacrificed becoming a restoration object for the state with several hundred million in cost. That would be a failure. At the end of this month, there will be a preliminary study on the subject of the research mine. I hope that it will answer a few questions so that our eminent government can give future mining research a good start for sustainable development for our future mines. It is no wonder in itself that today's mining products are sensitive to the impact of world prices. We sell our products on the open world market, and there are sellers of different kinds. What is unfortunate, of course, is that there is no swan marking or certification that, in a global perspective, looks at how, for example, a company in the steel industry manages its employees, carbon dioxide emissions throughout the mining process and also the melting process, that is, the entire chain to the finished product. With such a label, our mines, with further processing, which we are engaged in in Sweden, would clearly appear to be the best in the class. Sweden would have the so-called green steel. In this respect, Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of Parliament to the special opinion of the Left Party in paragraph 3, Fees and allowances. The opinion shows the direction that Sweden should take in the current instruments, in order to create a mining industry that is accepted by the local community and that it is possible to extract as much minerals as possible from what is dug up. It is clear that a mineral levy based on a system that provides companies or clusters that further refine the material into sustainable products, with an attractive eco-label for the world's consumers, would benefit the future system. I've had a little difficulty selling in my thoughts about a mineral fee based on the idea that the more you refine, the less fee. Just digging up minerals and selling out of the country would mean a higher fee. I do not take a position on the size of a possible future increase in the levy, but not trying at all to develop a system that provides jobs and added value to society is missing something essential. It may even be the case that money paid up by companies that are least involved in processing should go to the companies that process the most. Some might call this protectionism, but I do not think it is an obstacle for any company to develop forms of processing. Taxing our natural resources is clearly a national issue. If we then get the environment, climate and social aspects as value indicators into production, we have come to the fore. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has three reservations in the report, and of course we all support them. For time to come, I am in favour of only reservation 11, which is based on a motion that addresses the issue of the supply of skills to the mining industry so that women and men in the local community can be attracted to the industry. I would like to draw Members' attention once again to our specific opinion.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-228	Mr President, I would like to The mining industry, as has already been said here, is one of our country's most important basic industries. The mining industry generates important raw materials, tax revenues and jobs. Thanks to new technology, modern mining has less impact on the environment than older mining. It is positive when old mines are re-opened to extract deposits thanks to modern technology or when existing mines expand their extraction in a more sustainable way. But we also know that the mining industry gives rise to conflicts and mistrust between different groups and interests. Growth and jobs are often set against the environment and, for example, reindeer nutrition. It is essential that we can manage and take into account the various interests that exist. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish mineral law is among the hardest in the world. On 1 August 2014, the mineral law was further strengthened so that the individual's position in exploration has improved. More stringent requirements have been introduced on what a work plan should contain and on the process around it. The Alliance government developed a mineral strategy that laid a good foundation for how Sweden can exploit the opportunities for jobs and growth, while defending our position as the EU's leading mining nation. Mining often accounts for extensive interventions in nature and has a negative impact on the environment. It is therefore important for the responsible authorities to place greater emphasis on controlling the economic strength of potential mineral companies in order, inter alia, to ensure that companies are able to take full responsibility for the environmental impact that may occur. Mr President, I would like to The Sami are an indigenous people and a recognised Swedish minority, and Sweden therefore has a special responsibility both historically and on the basis of international conventions to protect Sami culture and the right of the Sami people to exercise reindeer husbandry. But the Sami culture today feels threatened by exploitation interests. The Alliance government made important legislative changes to strengthen the role of Sami interests in the process of mineral extraction. However, the Liberals believe that we must show great respect for the various interests involved in mining and mining. A great deal of time and effort must be put into finding working forms of consultation. Trust must be built. This is done, among other things, through good communication between actors, i.e. companies, landowners, municipalities and other stakeholders – such as the Sami. Mr President, I would like to As we have heard earlier in the pulpit, the alliance government took an ambitious and integrated strategic hold on the Swedish mining and mineral industry in order to seize the opportunities that are given for Sweden to continue to develop as a leading mining nation. Strategic areas for long-term sustainable mineral use were identified and a significant number of concrete measures were presented. Funds were allocated to finance the various actions. The strategy was an important guide for a continued active and competitive mining industry in Sweden. Unfortunately, we do not feel that the current government has the same interest in mining and mineral industry issues. While work is under way to implement the remaining measures, commitment to implementation leaves a number of things to be desired. In our view, there is also reason to fear that the experience so far is not being used effectively. The Alliance government recognized the importance of acting in a concerted and targeted manner, not only to secure the future of the Swedish mining industry, but also to ensure that the mining industry can coexist with the rest of society. The implementation of the mineral strategy decided by the then government in 2013 has in recent years provided very valuable knowledge that must now be used effectively. The Liberals therefore agree with what is stated in motions 2016/ 17:3123 and 3128 that the Riksdag should, through an announcement, invite the Government to continue the important work on the national mineral strategy. I therefore propose that point 1 be added to paragraph 1.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-239	Mr President, I would like to I would like to refer to the debate we had earlier on regional growth policy. If there is anything in that policy, it is precisely the development of the important mining and mineral industry. It is well known that these companies depend on the place in which they operate. As my colleague said, we've been on a trip to Västerbotten. We visited Boliden, who works with mineral recycling in different ways. This industry will need to grow more and more in the coming years if we are to enter a circular economy for society as a whole. But also the local importance of this whole industry is great. 900 people are employed at Boliden in Skellefteå. It is a considerable amount of people who work and work there, also with the whole world around them and in the company. What is interesting about this whole rich industry, which has been around and worked in Sweden for so many years, is precisely this. When we talk about mills in Sweden, it is not always with a positive sound. I mentioned earlier my town of Degerfors. There is a world-leading steel industry, Outokumpu, which is also the municipality's largest private employer. The question is whether you are not the biggest employer at all. The importance of these activities should not be forgotten. Another example is Hagfors in Värmland. Uddeholm, a well-known industry there, also has several hundred employees. Of course it affects the whole district. We also know the importance of having a mining, steel and mineral industry that has and will have good conditions to continue to grow and develop, because it has the whole world as its field of work. The places where these factories and other activities are located will be depopulated even more if they do not get the skills and development they need. On our visits in the last few days, we have received a number of opinions. When we talk about this with recycling, for example, electronic waste containing minerals, it is clear that there is an important thought in it about circular society but also an idea of what we produce in Sweden, what we take in and how we look at producer responsibility at all. We have a mineral strategy. We in the Alliance have a wish, I would say, that the mineral strategy is not only being followed up but is also being developed. As a Christian Democrat, I really wish that there had been more of a regional growth policy thought also in the mineral strategy – for the reason that we need a continued industry in these fields in order for our rural areas to survive and survive. I support the Alliance's reservation No 1 and thank you for me.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-248	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the motion report on minerals. Once again, we are going to debate mineral politics, and the motion flora does not differ significantly from last year. The will is about the same; the difference is that more has been achieved since last. The Swedish mining industry has continued to deliver and maintain Sweden's position as the EU's leading mining nation. I would like to start by calling for the rejection of motions and reservations and for approval of the proposal contained in the report as it stands. However, in the motions that are being debated today, I would like to emphasise that in many cases there are commendable initiatives. There is a desire to take joint responsibility and to make better use of the return on deposits as well as an ambition that Sweden should be a pioneer in the transition to a more sustainable society. In many cases, however, it is exercise that is already launched or where commitments have already been made with a view to precisely what the motion proposes. As early as last year when we debated these issues, we were able to see that we are seeing positive developments in Swedish industry. I also commented at the time that Swedish industry is anything but basically gone. As Mr Bali mentioned earlier, some 7 500 people are employed directly in the mining industry. Over 90% of the EU's iron ore production comes from Sweden. Research permits are granted primarily in Norr- and Västerbotten and Dalarna. But also I as a Gotlandian stem from a mining county, where we continue to hope to pick up a lot of limestone. However, the number of SGU applications has been slightly up and down – sharply down in recent years as a natural consequence of falling mineral prices on the world market. However, the price trend of different raw materials is somewhat different. Iron ore has increased significantly as Trump won the US election and promised infrastructure investments that would greatly increase the need for iron ore. Demand for Swedish products and services continues to be high, and we are now reindustrialising Sweden. Yet there are challenges. Some of them have been mentioned here before. This is partly in terms of the price for Swedish steel in a global, highly competitive market, and partly in terms of requirements for sustainable industrial production. An industrial nation like Sweden must prove that we are able to keep several values on the map at the same time: continued high production but of course on responsible and sustainable conditions. I would therefore like to stress right now that the objective of the Swedish Environmental Code is and remains to promote sustainable development and to ensure a healthy and healthy living environment for living and future generations. The precautionary principle shall apply. Strengthened and extended environmental impact assessment requirements have been introduced. Mr President, I would like to Another challenge well worth highlighting in this context is the supply of skills in the mining industry. It has also been mentioned here before. The Industry Committee visited Skellefteå in Västerbotten yesterday. It is a visit that has been highlighted here several times; I think we are all very satisfied. We visited Rönnskärsverken, where Boliden clearly points to the lack of metallurgy. But all of us who are interested in industrial policy know that the needs are far greater than that – not least on the engineering side, where the need sometimes seems in principle insatiable. I am therefore proud of the educational policy pursued by the Social Democratic-led Government with clear investments in more higher education places and also in the expansion of adult education. In addition, we need even more role models in the mining industry – both women and men – that can show us on the way to both jobs and development throughout Sweden. How we build Sweden strong and competitive! In this context, Umeå, for example, deserves to be highlighted. It clearly focuses on getting more women to live there but also on getting new women to come to the region. This is done because it has been noted that the regions that attract both women and men are those that are sustainable and competitive in the long term. Mr President, I would like to A thriving industry that develops with fair conditions depends on long-term rules of play. I would therefore like to touch briefly on the agreement reached between the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the field of mineral policy this year too. It reads as follows: Sweden should be a forerunner for sustainable development in the mining industry, which is important for Sweden. We want to create new models to develop the responsibility of society and the mining industry to finance the investments required for environmentally sustainable mining and social development. The environmental requirements for exploration and test drilling shall be tightened. The interest of the tourism industry and other local industries shall be taken into account. An analysis of available roads shall be carried out within the Government Office. Sweden shall not open up for the extraction of uranium, oil or gas. ..................................................... There are six lines, but with a lot of content and high ambitions – as it should. Of course, the mineral strategy deserves special mention, not least because work on it has been prioritised by both the previous and the present government. Most of the measures in the strategy are allocated as mandates to the responsible authorities. It was done by the previous government but has also been done by the current government. The Government has concluded that approximately half of the tasks and activities decided have been reported. And the work on the mineral strategy as a whole is expected to be completed and reported in 2017. The purpose of the mineral strategy is to create growth throughout the country through the long-term and sustainable use of the country's mineral resources, in line with environmental, natural and cultural values. The present government is in agreement with the previous one. There is every reason for the Swedish mining industry as well as for Swedish decision-makers to continue to closely monitor changes in the outside world. At present, for example, several NATO countries are equipping parts of their defence, and China is increasingly importing raw materials, which in the long term could mean an increase in demand for Swedish industry. It is a major challenge for industry to react to fluctuations and to the policy of allowing conditions that facilitate, if necessary, conversion. The lead times in the permit processes, which have also been highlighted before, are a real challenge for Sweden. And it is an area that is particularly affected in the aforementioned mineral strategy. It is also a very real concern that is constantly being raised by players in the mineral industry. Regardless of the position in a process, everyone involved wants to know in a reasonable time. Long-term processes do not benefit anyone and lead to Sweden losing momentum. The fact that licensing processes are both legally secure and effective is extremely important for Sweden and for us to maintain our strong position as the EU's leading mining nation. The government shows a great deal of responsibility and concern for continued growth in the mining industry. Of course, growth should take place with an effective and gentle hand. One of the key words for the future should be responsibility, for both mineral resources and the surrounding society and nature and environment. Different types of conversion take place in several parts of the country. And the processes must always be characterised by responsibility. A good example of responsibility is LKAB's actions in the Malmfälten fields. However, there is every reason to keep an eye on the area. The Government presented its views on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on mining waste in a letter to the Riksdag in April 2016. The letter shows that the Government has begun work to investigate and analyse whether there are measures or measures that can more effectively ensure that there are sufficient financial guarantees than at present. It is an extremely important work to ensure a long-term sustainable mining industry. Mr President, I would like to With the above, I call for the rejection of all motions and reservations in the field of mineral policy, and I call for the whole of the report to be approved. Finally, I would also like to express pride in Sweden and the way in which we jointly protect each other but also about sustainable conditions for growth and development. A Sweden that holds together is the goal, also in the field of mineral policy.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-271	Mr President, I would like to My question concerns the supply of competence in the mineral industry. The 20 metallurgs I talked about were therefore not just for Boliden, but 20 metallurgs are the national need for LKAB, Boliden and all other mineral industries. It seems almost baroque that there should be as small a number as 20 here in Parliament. But the fact that a country that has the world's most expanded university sector fails to get 20 engineers with this specialty is a little strange. We have a skills problem. In this country, it is definitely not a shortage of people who graduate. On the other hand, there seems to be an obvious shortage of people taking university degrees in requested subjects. Between a third and a quarter of those who graduate from college get jobs for which the requirement is only upper secondary school competence. It may not be an over-training we have, but it is an obvious miseducation. We must do something, for example with resource systems and other systems, to ensure that our industry is able to cope. It is about what brings in tax money, which produces tax money, so that we can afford higher education and all the things we value. We cannot say that the need is infinite. We're talking about 20 people. Why is such a powerful congregation and government unable to ensure that 20 people receive proper training?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-276	Mr President, I would like to Hanif Bali called it baroque that we are talking about 20 metallurgs. I don't think it's baroque. It shows the commitment in this congregation to meet the needs of industry and to ensure that it is even better placed to succeed. I think that parts of the key may be what I mentioned earlier, that is to make it even more attractive to live all over the country, to show that you can live in and take your family with you to different parts of the country. I believe that the mining industry, as they also admit, has some challenges. Women and men do not go to those training courses to the same extent. This may also make it more difficult to arrange the supply of skills in certain places. I agree that it is regrettable that we have not solved the challenge. Nevertheless, I believe in the focus on opening up more paths to education, making it more attractive to live and live throughout the country and showing good examples.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-279	Mr President, I would like to That was a different conclusion. In countries with a much better Beveridge curve, there is no correlation between the attractiveness of living in rural areas and people who choose to attend engineering training. There is no such connection whatsoever. But that is the explanation in Sweden. When you describe problems and solutions in this way, you try to get the solution to be about something that you think is important. Of course, it is important in itself that people can live and work anywhere in the country. But that does not mean that it needs to be the solution to this particular problem. A large part of the problem is about how many places are offered on other lines. For example, we have a wide range of training courses in other sectors. It helps them compete with the idea of becoming an engineer or not. And we have a high school that is completely neutral in terms of which education to choose. For example, the science and classical higher education subjects are out-competed by aesthetic subjects, media educations and so on. It is also a problem that needs to be addressed. If we look at the difference between Sweden and a better functioning labour market, as in Germany, for example, it is clear that they have about 5% higher share that goes the classic lines, namely science and technology. Is it about the fact that German rural policy is more effective? Of course not. It's about our education system being incorrectly rigged. A previous debate with the Social Democrats denied that there were even such problems; the Swedish supply of skills works excellently. I don't believe that.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-284	Mr President, I would like to I am no stranger to the fact that, in the future, we will allow the industry's demand for skills and labour to govern to a greater extent than today. We can already see that such investments are taking place well. When the industry demands a certain level of competence and we train in harmony with it, the results are positive. That is something that I think could be tested here too. However, I do not believe that efforts should be made for access to education and work throughout the country. I mentioned earlier Umeå, which very clearly prioritises efforts to attract both women and men to the region. It looks to fall very well. This will make it easier for the mining industry to solve its skills supply in the future. I think you, Hanif Bali, can have a point in allowing the needs of the business community to make a greater impact on the education system. But I also strongly believe in the government's priorities that we should have efforts to access education and work throughout the country. I think this is a path to success.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-287	Mr President, I would like to In Skaraborg and in my neighboring Jämtland there are some deposits of uranium. As a result, quite a few are concerned. What happens if any company wants to prospectus a or even break uranium? It would definitely affect hunting, fishing and tourism, not to mention the value of the land, which is at risk of falling. The sheet risks falling into price. A few years ago, the Social Democrats wanted to ban uranium mining. But now you choose to vote against the movements of both the Center Party and the Left Party to investigate a ban. My question is, why is that?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-290	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl and I have discussed this issue before. I will try not to repeat myself too much, but the fact remains that there is an agreement between the Social Democrats and the Green Party which is now in government. It is, I know, the most far-reaching agreement we have had with regard to uranium. My question back to Helena Lindahl is: What other coalition can offer an equally far-reaching agreement, which actually says that we will not open up to the extraction of oil, uranium or gas? It's a fact. I don't know any other option that has an equally strong agreement.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-292	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Westerén for her reply. We see that renewable energy is expanding at an accelerated pace. Me and the Center Party estimate that a hundred percent renewable society is getting closer. This will also reduce the need for uranium, as nuclear power will eventually be phased out. I am thinking about why the Social Democrats think that legislation against uranium would be so wrong. If you already have a sort of agreement, to which Hanna Westerén refers, then I wonder why we cannot legislate on a ban. You wanted it a couple of years ago. So you refer to this agreement. However, what was agreed at the coffee table does not really matter in comparison with decisions taken on Swedish legislation. In fact, the law is above your agreement. I can only say that the government parties want people to believe that the internal agreement is above Swedish law and that you are trying to do your best to make a broken electoral promise appear to be positive. It actually disappoints a lot of people, not least in Jämtland and Skaraborg. I wonder, Hanna Westerén, how you explain the race turn to them.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-297	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by expressing joy at what Helena Lindahl began by highlighting – all the advances made towards a fossil-free and renewable society. It is incredibly important for those of us who live today, but it is perhaps even more important for those who live and grow up tomorrow. We fully agree that this is something incredibly positive. With regard to this agreement, however, I would strongly argue that it weighs far more than any coffee discussions. So it is an agreement between two government parties. As long as we have this government constellation, we are in the position that Sweden will not open up to the extraction of oil, uranium or gas. For me, it feels incredibly safe.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-299	Mr President, I would like to We shall continue to dig into this issue. If you look at Swedish mining industry it is something that we have always had under us and sometimes been able to take up and earn some money on. What we are not discussing today will remain until tomorrow. It's like having money in the bank. What's not like having money in the bank is that if you try to bring this up, you can hurt nature. That is why we need strict environmental laws. Do we, then, have a bad competitive environment because of our strict environmental laws? I will refer to what the Fraser Institute has said. It is much as if the Left Party were to quote Timbro, that is, a think tank for total free trade with everything. Fraser Institute does what is called Economic Freedom of the World Index. They say that Sweden and Finland are at the top. Compared to all other countries on earth, mining is easiest here. Luleå University of Technology has made an evaluation of the mining industry in an international comparison. They say that there is no problem with strict environmental laws. On the contrary, Sweden needs more regulatory competence, regulatory engineering competitiveness, in order to continue to develop the necessary proposals. So, yes, Hanif Bali, we need 20 more people to investigate what is and to develop new opportunities. But we need at least as much of 10 people who can help get the right and best regulations. Since the 1990s, the others have caught up. You can look at Bolivia, Chile and Peru. Their environmental legislation has improved considerably. Botswana is presenting a new mineral law this year. When I was in the European Parliament, I met the one who then became the mining minister. We sat in a forum for cooperation. I told him about Swedish mining rules. He laughed and said: Carl, my dear friend, you are the modern banana Republic. He thought they had stricter rules. They have an extraction fee of 3-10 percent depending on, for example, what kind of mineral it is. Norway has an extractive levy of 78 percent on oil. The UK has an extraction fee of 50% of the net profit. Malawi has a extraction fee of 3 percent. Then they have royalties of 10 percent. Mongolia has an extractive levy of 5 percent plus 68 percent on over-profits. And we have an extraction fee of 0.2%. It is claimed that Sweden has problems with mining legislation. No, we may have trouble remaining ahead because we don't have enough people to help us with that. But we are an international paradise for the mining industry. Then we also have the opportunity to provide predictable reinforcements in terms of the use of resources. If you look at what countries feel about security in investing, Sweden is also at the top. It is felt that our environmental legislation provides stability and security. We're on top. We don't discourage anyone. Therefore, we will continue to work in the way we have done – continue to strengthen environmental laws and continue to strengthen the rights of those who work in our mines. We shall also continue to strengthen the Sami's ability to influence the process. Several countries allow a clear influence on local populations. I am therefore not at all concerned that we will suffer a mining disaster if we tighten the regulatory framework. A clear place to tighten the regulatory framework is exactly what Hanna Westerén previously read out from the government agreement on oil and gas extraction. In April, the SGU presented a report showing that it is perfectly possible and economically reasonable to tighten up the regulatory framework. Similarly, in the case of uranium, there was a report from the SGU in October showing that it would not be a challenge at all for Sweden to tighten up the regulatory framework there too.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-311	Mr President, I would like to You don't know who you're talking to. Is it the Real Green Party, or is it the Provincial Green Party, or which is it? What is simply asked is whether there is a great need for changes to environmental legislation, and why the Green Party has not exercised it. If the Green Party does not want to do this, why has Carl Schlyter not been exercising on this? He has had every opportunity to insist here on stronger environmental legislation. But this is somehow about some rhetorical exercise. However, it goes without saying that our need for long-term and stable environmental legislation is a good thing for our competitiveness. But there are other forms of anti-competitive problems, such as the fact that licensing is taking too long. There is nothing to say that, for example, harsh environmental requirements must mean that it takes a long time. On the contrary, it can go a lot faster. If there are ten people who draw up good environmental legislation, perhaps ten more people should be taken care of the permit process. In addition, it may be possible to have a more simplified procedure for the handling of permits. These are the issues that have been discussed. Instead, however, there will be some sort of windmill discussion about whether we want to remove a lot of environmental legislation and such. There is no one here who has exercised, insisted or claimed it. On the other hand, Carl Schlyter refers to this as a major conflict. And I do not know whether this conflict is a conclusion drawn by the Green Party or by Carl Schlyter alone.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-315	Mr President, I would like to I suppose it's a good idea if we can agree that we can fund more. One way to finance this is through a little more mining fees. If Mr Bali wants to do so, for example, we can raise a joint motion on this. I'm not known for always praising and defending the government and everything it does. In this case, I trust 100% that the work of the government is now progressing. That's why I don't even need to exercise about this. In the agreement with the Social Democrats, we have agreed, as Mrs Hanna read out, that we should remedy gas, oil and coal. A report will be presented in April. That is why I do not need to vote on a proposal from the Center Party or the Left saying that we should ban this today, because we are already working on it. It's unnecessary. You know how the Parliament works there, Hanif Bali. I think sometimes you can vote for things that you like, but in this case I know that the government is working on it. I can therefore say that it is a good thing that we are doing this, and the government is in the process. I don't have to wake up any exercise about it. As for what is being talked about and cranked about, yes, I am not calling for anything here because what I support is already being called for. What I also support, which the opposition has put forward and which I think is good, I know that the government is doing. So in this case, I feel safe. I don't have to wake up any exercise.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-319	Mr President, I would like to First, Sweden is described as a banana republic in terms of Swedish mineral legislation in the form of a developing country. Then suddenly everything is fine. The rhetoric somehow doesn't go together with the actions. I do not think anyone shares the view that Swedish mineral policy and mineral policy legislation are in parity with a banana republic, regardless of what your botswan friend says about it. When we also look at the criticism you have had against for example the mineral fee, there are no indications from the government etc. about any radical increases that you have propagated for here. Then again we come to the difference between rhetoric and action. Indeed, those countries with a much higher mineral levy do not have as high a tax generally, in any sector, as Sweden does. That is also one reason why we cannot charge excessive charges in this particular sector. We charge other taxes on a general level that is far higher than that of other countries. That's an explanation. However, it is self-evident that long-term rules in mineral policy and legislation will improve Sweden's competitiveness. It is just to be happy about it and to continue with this policy instead of, as Carl Schlyter proposes, totally changing it from scratch, raising the fees, making it more complicated, making it more difficult and making the licensing process even longer.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-323	Mr President, I would like to I'm gonna help out and sort this out for Hanif Bali. What I said was a reaction to Maria Weimer's statement that Sweden has the hardest legislation in the world. I understood that as a rhetorical speech means that we do not want to continue working on tougher legislation in the future. That's what I reacted to. As far as taxes are concerned, the government has not promised anything; it is absolutely true. I, on the other hand, think it's a good idea. That was my opinion. Our mining policy spokesperson is Jonas Eriksson. When I say that the government is doing a good job, I think I can speak safely for the entire Green Party. I can suggest that we have a mining treasure, which I think is a very good idea. I have raised motions on this to internal congresses before, and to this year's congress, for example, I made a proposal. Then it's a personal opinion-- if this helps you sort out the differences.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-326	Mr President, I would like to Then the House will turn to debating the Social Affairs Committee's report No 10, which deals with health issues. It is clear that there is a great deal of interest on the part of the members of the Riksdag in the field of Swedish health care. We know that there is also great interest among citizens. Only in this report will we deal with 340 different requests for exercise from general exercise time. This means that the report covers quite a number of different areas of health care. It is about the organisation of care, the guarantee of care, the patient law, equal care and patient safety, just to name a few areas. Mr President, I would like to We live in a country where we actually have extremely good conditions and a care that in its quality is largely at the forefront. We produce extremely good health outcomes from many aspects. It is therefore regrettable that Swedes' confidence in health care is still falling and has declined above all in recent years. According to a study from the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis, confidence in healthcare in Sweden is lower than in most other countries. According to the Health Care Association's magazine, the median waiting time in Swedish emergency hospitals has increased by 40 minutes since 2010. This means that it can be much longer waiting for individual patients. The National Board of Health and Welfare's survey of waiting times in hospital hospitals shows that every other patient spends more than three hours in the emergency room. Every tenth patient is waiting for more than seven hours. It's no wonder a lot of people are reluctant to go to the E.R. What may be even more remarkable is that those who wait the longest are over 80 years of age. Unfortunately, it differs across the country, or maybe we should really be happy that it is not as bad in the whole country as it is at Mälar Hospital in Eskilstuna. There, a person over 80 years of median waiting time has to wait for more than five hours. Some have to wait as long as ten and a half hours. It is clear that this is not just a matter of inconvenientness and that it creates anxiety and frustration among the patient seeking treatment or in the family. Above all, this is a problem because it presents a safety risk. This means a lower quality of care. There are very strong reasons why we need to review how we organise the Swedish healthcare system. What has happened in recent years that causes confidence in Swedish healthcare to fall and that we do not produce as good care for all patients as we could do? We Christian Democrats see that there are strong reasons to shift more focus on how to get close care as a patient. How are we going to get the care where you need it and when you need it? It is a question of continuing in the direction that we set out in the alliance government. It is about ensuring that we have a focus on waiting times and on quality – something that has unfortunately been obscured in the policy of the current government. We introduced the care guarantee so that every patient at every opportunity you seek care knows what you have to expect. We made sure that the requirements were tightened up to the extent necessary, and we believe that there is great reason to tighten the requirements further. This is particularly true of being able to come on return visits, which is something that is not included in the health guarantee today. You should have inscribed what you can expect when you have received extensive treatment. When are you going to be able to come back? Anyone who has not become quite well after surgery should not, when trying to seek medical care, get the answer that it may go and sit down in the emergency room. It's not good care. We want to introduce a more stringent guarantee of primary care. Today you should have an appointment with a doctor within a week, but we believe it is high time to tighten up the requirements so that patients know that the person seeking help in the primary care should meet the right specialist by the next day. Many times this may be a doctor, but sometimes it may be the district nurse, physiotherapist or any of the professions that should be in primary care that I need to meet. We introduced the cue billion. Instead of putting billions in line for you, we spent billions – 1 billion a year – to make sure that the queues are short. This had an effect, but the current government has removed it. Instead, the current government has made it free for older patients to stand longer in line. This is not how we want to develop Swedish healthcare. There are a lot of issues in this report that address what we in Parliament consider to be simplified treatment. This does not in any way mean that these are simple issues or issues that are not important, but because they have been dealt with in the past. There are issues that I know many people are involved in, for example with regard to different patient groups where you can see that the care does not work and that the patients do not receive the care they need. These are, for example, patient groups that have various lymphatic diseases, such as lymphedema or lipedema. There is knowledge of this, but patients do not come to the doctor for help. We must continue to work on developing different health care programmes. We must ensure that there are treatments and methods and that they are used throughout the country. One of the biggest challenges for Swedish healthcare is that access to good care depends on who you are and where you live. The asset is different. Whoever lives in the wrong place doesn't get the right access. Women receive many times worse care, and those who belong to a socio-economically weak group or have a background with lower education do not receive the same good care. This is not something we can accept in our society. Therefore, more equal care is something we must continue to work on. It is something that applies to all patient groups, to all people and to all citizens throughout our country. Mr President, I would like to In this report, we propose that Parliament address two announcements to the government. One is about the patient law, which must be tightened up and which must be completed. We can see that, unfortunately, since its entry into force, the patient law has not had the effect it should have. Then the government must assume its responsibilities and ensure that it receives it. We also propose that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government regarding the development of healthcare choices in specialised outpatient care. The Christian Democrats have some reservations of their own, but for time to come I only call for reservation 22, which is the Alliance's joint reservation in maintaining the choice of care.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-346	Mr President, I would like to The previous speaker has already shown the great interest that exists in the issues that we are debating today, namely those relating to health care. Many motion requests have been received from Members. Opinion polls show that citizens have a great interest in this and rank it number one among policy areas. The mass media, at least for the moment, reflect the situation in health care every day. This is not much to marvel at. There is security in knowing that there is high quality medical care that can help me and others when we need it. As the previous speaker did, we tend to point out on such occasions that we have world-class healthcare. It is relatively evenly distributed and comparatively accessible to all. Although there are studies that point to a different trend, it also enjoys a high level of confidence among the population. However, as Emma Henriksson pointed out, there are major challenges. There are threats that need to be met and flaws that need to be addressed. In this regard, the Members of Parliament who appear to have exercised diligently have done so. It is a question of better organisation and efficiency of care and of improving quality and accessibility. Furthermore, it is a question of strengthening the patient's position and of ensuring patient safety. It is also about fees and the need for innovations and IT solutions in healthcare and much more. The options are filled with suggestions for policy solutions for how to meet these challenges. Some proposals, Mr President, might be more active in putting home in the county council or in the region. Some problems may be left to the profession to work with. But most are constructive and good proposals on which there is very broad consensus and which have already been, or are about to be, resolved. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to describe what the government is doing to solve the urgent problems that exist in healthcare and to address in the longer term the challenges that may threaten the goal of a need-adapted and efficient health care of good quality. Mr President, I would like to Health care structures and organisation need to be changed and streamlined in order to be able to meet current and future ill health. The government has therefore appointed a special investigator, or coordinator, to lead the work towards coordinated development for a modern, equal, accessible and effective care with a focus on primary care. This will be the first step in a major change in the system and structure of Swedish healthcare. It is a reform that will also be a broad accessibility reform focusing on close care. In the long term, the aim is to implement the structural reform proposed by Göran Stiernstedt in his study Effective care. A first interim report will be submitted as early as June. Among other things, it should include proposals for a professional-neutral care guarantee, of which we expect a lot. In terms of quality and accessibility, many studies show that there is unacceptable inequality both in the quality of care and in its accessibility. Differences exist in socio-economics and geography as well as between the sexes. When it comes to cancer and cancer care, the government is investing in a more equal and accessible cancer care with SEK 2 billion during its term of office. The previous speaker raised challenges of meeting diagnoses that may not have been noticed and that do not meet in an equivalent way in the country, such as the diagnosis of lymphedema. Here the government is actively working with its authorities on the dissemination of knowledge that needs to come out into the country in order to eventually create guidelines and care programmes for these diagnoses too, so that equality can prevail in healthcare. The government is also making urgent efforts. The spring budget invests 500 million to improve access to maternity care and 100 million to improve care for children and young people with mental illness. Mr President, I would like to To get in touch quickly with the care and not to have to wait for examination and treatment is essential for you to know trust and security in the care. It is not acceptable that the queues for care are growing. In order to overcome this, the basic problems, which concern the provision of skills and the creation of the conditions for health professionals to develop their own forms of work, need to be addressed. More IT solutions must also be implemented in healthcare. The Government's investment in the so-called professional billion, as agreed with SKL, creates the conditions for healthcare professionals to increase the proportion of time involved in working closely with patients. It also creates the conditions for county councils to better plan their skills needs, and it will promote, among other things, better administrative support, more efficient division of labour and appropriate planning. New this year, Mr President, is an agreement that SEK 300 million of the professional billion should be earmarked to provide the opportunity for nurses to be trained as specialist nurses, of which care suffers a great deal. The Government has also announced an investment in the 2018 budget bill for a so-called patient billion for a strengthened healthcare guarantee. Here we welcome with satisfaction the Christian Democrats' commitment to primary care for a better health guarantee. We can also note that the Center Party allocates 1 billion to better accessibility. Here there are good conditions to find agreements to implement this. The government wants to tighten the health guarantee limit in primary care. It should be faster, certainly, than seven days, and accessibility should be better. It should be possible to do this through changes in working methods and improved accessibility. Mr President, I would like to An important cornerstone of a changed, modernised and better care is that it is built with a clear focus on the patient and the patient's needs. International comparisons show that Swedish patients experience less participation, less information and less accessibility in healthcare. The patient, we mean, should be regarded as an asset in the care and as a bearer of knowledge about his own condition and how ill health should be met. As a patient, you should not be regarded as a person who interferes with care when seeking help. This must be the focus when the structures of care change. A good start, Mr President, is the introduction of patient contracts, which the government also announced for the 2018 budget bill. It will start supporting pilot activities in three county councils. We Social Democrats believe that it is time to give healthcare personnel the opportunity to develop their organisation, way of working and culture in order to meet patients with statutory rights in a way that creates participation and puts the patient in focus. Hence our reservation No 5 in the report. Mr President, I would like to For us Social Democrats, the government's realistic efforts are good and accessible ways of ensuring good and equal care. Against the policy of the Red-Green Government on the strengthening of well-being are the bourgeois proposals for major tax cuts and further privatisations. We also object to the proposal to extend the healthcare choice system to open specialist care and to extend the freedom of establishment. We cannot see that it would contribute to more equal care throughout the country. We believe that this would make it even more difficult for the principals to plan and organise care effectively and efficiently to meet the needs of the population. In addition, we believe that this is too much interference with local self-government. Mr President, I would like to In order to save time in this House, I am content to support our reservation No 15. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-374	Mr President, I would like to When your government took on board, it was decided that an important and decisive decision was to remove the queue billions. We are talking about a budgetary effort that in practice had a major impact. It meant that people in need of care received care. Instead of waiting in line, you actually received care. The former Social Democratic government had invested a lot of money and fed a system that did not work and did not lead to patients receiving care. We introduced the queue billion to focus on the fact that if you are ill you should receive care, and it had an effect. Measurements were made and we could see that in the area by area the queues were shortened. The measurements continue, and now they show the opposite, that the queues are growing. You have to wait longer for a first visit, wait longer for specialist visits and wait longer for treatment. SKL has certainly made it a little harder to find all the numbers, but if you go in and follow how the development has been you see very clearly that the queues are growing. However, some patients' fees have been reduced or removed. But the first thing that older people want, which are the ones in our society that have the greatest needs, is not that it should be free to stand in, it is to get care without having to stand in line. Has the government realised, I ask Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson on behalf of the government parties, that it was a mistake to remove the queue billions? And have you realised that it is not enough, in fact, to devote money to health care, but to give money to health care in a way that is effective?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-378	Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson pointed out that the queue billion led to shorter waiting times. It did so at first, and we should not deny that. But it is widely known that, towards the end of your reign, waiting times increased again and queues grew. Emma Henriksson himself also pointed out that there were some displacement effects, as her alliance partner Cecilia Widegren has acknowledged in an article. Emma Henriksson mentioned some time ago the return visits, for example. The embodiment, as it was designed, had the consequence that it was difficult to get time for return visits. This affected the large groups of chronic diseases. It was difficult to get time for return visits. The overall solutions needed to meet their needs were not provided. I also think that the Alliance – Emma Henriksson in this case – misses to point out the basic problems that exist in healthcare in order to be able to shorten waiting times and provide higher availability. We believe, Mr President, that it simply depends on the supply of skills. We have a lack of competence in healthcare that needs to be addressed. It is about providing resources, just as the government does in different ways. But it is also a question of creating opportunities to organise care, and we must have confidence that health professionals themselves can do so in order for them to be able to do good work in the best possible way. I think that the Alliance indirectly criticises health professionals for doing a bad job. They are said to be able to receive patients in a better and more accessible way with whips and carrots. We believe that we need to create better conditions and conditions for healthcare professionals.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-383	Mr President, I would like to Nothing could be more wrong than that we do not have a great confidence in Swedish health professionals. It is the staff who do the care every day in the meeting with patients. Without the staff, we would not have the very good, well-functioning care that is available in many places, but which is not available to all patients. It often fails precisely because of the shortcomings that exist in structures. What often makes the staff choose to quit is that they feel that they do not have the space to do a good job. But instead of focusing on the quality of care, the content of care and how we can shorten queues, the current government has decided to put its gunpowder on profits in welfare and to stop different actors. Large investigative resources have been used to stop profits and limit the possibility for different performers. We know that in many parts of the country today there are health centres, precisely because the staff have had to take over health centres from the county council-run unit that has not worked. With their own competence, initiative and ability, it has been ensured that there are currently functioning activities that patients are happy to choose, because patients have the same trust in the practitioners of care as we in the Alliance. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson slips on the concepts when it comes to displacement effects. It has been investigated several times, and the point is that there is a risk of displacement effects. So far, no study has shown in a clearer way that there have been displacement effects. However, we must continue to develop the choice of care and queue billions and ensure that more people have access to care, not dismantle what has actually been effective and worked. Mr President, I would like to The question remains: why has the focus been on profits rather than quality?
i-WtQXgLQCsDgaKbq4yiZGLv	Before I give the floor to Anna-Lena Sörenson, I have a question. In her speech, Ms Sörenson called for reservation No 15. However, since it is Emma Henriksson's reservation, I guess that was wrong and that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson instead requests the approval of reservation No 23, in paragraph 15. Is that correct?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-388	Mr President, I would like to I apologize for this carelessness. Of course, it is reservation 23 that I am in favour of. Thank you for your comment, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson chooses to ignore the investigations that the government has set up and the investigations that the previous government set up and that the government has collected and is working on to get the change in structures and organisation in healthcare that must be made in order for the staff to develop their profession and commitment and be able to meet patients and their needs in a better way. As far as I know, there is still no proposal regarding the Ilmar Reepalus study on welfare gains. Emma Henriksson may have seen something, but I haven't. I would like to make the point that we are not against private carers. They provide alternatives to care and stimulate public-run care. One problem, however, is that they thrive very well in Stockholm and other cities but not in rural and sparsely populated areas. There is a certain over-establishment in Stockholm, which draws resources. Emma Henriksson asks about the initiatives announced by the Prime Minister. It is about pushing for a development in which primary care, the close care, takes over more of hospital care in order to be able to meet patients more closely and thereby change the structures of care. The addition is needed in order to start this work.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-393	Mr President, I would like to System failure. You heard me correctly; I said system collapse. Then you think that it is a traditional opposition politician who expresses this. But it is not, but it is the employees who stand on the nursing floor every day and with tears and sweat struggle to pain relieve, care and help individual patients. System collapses are the words of Sweden's nurses and the Health Care Association for what the weak red-green left-wing government is trying to implement in health care. System failure. It can't be anything else. It is about the government's questioning of the nearly 4.7 million patient visits that take place annually in Swedish healthcare based on the Health Care Act and according to healthcare needs but carried out by an alternative healthcare provider. The Health Care Association makes it clear that the proposals made by the government and the further investigation proposals put forward on the government table yesterday will become a reality. Even today, people feel that they do not get into close care. How will it be possible to handle an additional 4.7 million patient visits, i.e. the patient visits that the alternative health centres around Sweden manage annually? How will the left-wing government ensure that these patients receive healthcare in the future? Mr President, I would like to I agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 22. I agree with everything that has been said by Emma Henriksson from the Christian Democrats and note that the alliance parties have presented and will continue to put forward concrete proposals to improve Swedish health care. Mr President, I would like to In terms of medical results, Sweden has one of the world's best healthcare services. But we also have many challenges. The biggest and most important challenge is, of course, accessibility. People need to be able to trust that they get our d when they need it and that they don't have to wait. In order for people to return to work and school and realize their life dreams, we need more accessible health care. We must meet this challenge with concrete proposals and make proposals for improvements to remedy this. Today, therefore, the Swedish Parliament is debating 340 different proposals. Many of these proposals do not think the red-green left in this House is good. It is believed that there are a lot of investigations going on that will solve this challenge. Yes, the government has set up investigations. The government has also received many referrals from previous investigations. But to make a reality and change things, concrete action is needed. After the mid-term term of office, concrete health care reforms are still empty to allow for improvements. Mrs Sörenson, the Social Democrats, used much of her speaking time to talk about these necessary things. But words are not enough to improve health care, to shorten care queues and to overcome the staff flight we are seeing today. Words are not enough to help health care employees feel more confident, to get a better work environment and to feel that they come to their right when they want to realize and change something. Where is the local supervisor at the care unit where I work? How can I make my suggestions? How can I improve? It is not possible, in words, to allay this concern. Concrete action is needed. The Swedish parliament therefore expects the government to return with a full bill list with several clear healthcare reforms. Many wishes have been expressed in words, but we now call for concrete action. In the run-up to this debate, the alliance parties have chosen to make a number of proposals. This afternoon, Parliament is likely to make a few clear decisions in which we urge the government to do certain things. I would like to check today with the representatives of the Social Democrats, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, how this will be done. One of the decisions we are likely to make this afternoon, against the will of the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party, is to further strengthen the patient law. The patient code is pretty new. The legislation came into place in 2015. Of course it's been a tough start. However, for those patients who have suffered health injuries, who have had to wait too long or who are not satisfied with their treatment, the patient law should be part of the protection to which they are entitled. I would like to know from Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson: When will the government return to Parliament with proposals to strengthen the Patient Act, in accordance with what is likely to be Parliament's decision this afternoon? The second decision of the afternoon is about developing patients' ability to choose and to increase their freedom of choice throughout Sweden. The Health Act covers all patients in Sweden, and we are just over 10 million today. Of course, freedom of choice should also apply to everyone covered by the Health Act. Strengthening the choice of care and strengthening freedom of choice are fundamentally positive for the individual patient. But it is of course also positive for those who want to develop, who have innovations and who want to try to do something that we did not really do in health care yesterday. They want to do something else tomorrow to make it even better for the patient. This could be about improving things with digitalisation, for example. To unleash this power requires the government to come up with concrete proposals. How do Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson and the government intend to come back to the Riksdag to develop the choice of care? The government parties are voting this afternoon against the proposal in the report and against the will and proposals of the Moderates and Alliance parties.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-413	Mr President, I would like to In high voice, Cecilia Widegren claims that in two and a half years the red-green government has been able to break up the entire healthcare system. That is a completely unreasonable statement. I think that both health care and the debate as well as politics would benefit from a lower tone and more conciliatory approach to these serious issues. Cecilia Widegren talks about proposals that are not on the table with the government. On the other hand, she chooses to ignore the catalogue of actions that I outlined in my speech. It was about investments in cancer care and primary care. It is also a question of billions of dollars in urgent problems that exist in healthcare today. During the debate we had last autumn, I recall that Cecilia Widegren said that I used too much of my speaking time to criticise the Alliance's proposals and less to talk about the government's actions. I thought that this time I spoke very much about the government's actions, but Cecilia Widegren chooses not to listen to it at all. Perhaps we should take a look at what the Moderates themselves suggest. I think they have a lot of good suggestions for improving health care. However, if you look at the budget exercise available for the financial year 2017, it is proposed, for example, that cuts of SEK 435 918 000 in relation to the government's budget. In the spring budget exercise presented the other week, the Moderates propose tax cuts of 22 billion. How this can help the care and care staff to get better opportunities to perform the care for the patients and develop their professionalism does not go together for us Social Democrats.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-418	Mr President, I would like to I cannot see the Social Democrats and AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson in any other way than being quite satisfied, even though we currently have growing care queues in Sweden. We're on a staff flight. I don't know which news channel Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is turning on. But it doesn't matter which channel you choose on the radio or TV or which newspaper you read. Everywhere it is about staff flight ahead of the summer and how care employers work hard to ensure that the healthcare staff will be in place this summer to help patients. Then it is not possible, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, to stand here and just say that everything is rolling, that I do not have to worry and that we made good proposals. This is not good enough, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson. The Moderates and alliance parties are happy to take a match for resources to the welfare. For eight years in government, we contributed 57 billion to health care and welfare. The Moderates have presented a more succulent and ambitious budget option than the government has done, as we have added 20 billion more to municipalities and county councils. That's where the treatment takes place. It is therefore necessary to add category 9 and category 25 to the budget proposal in order to understand what is being invested in Swedish health care. The Moderates invest 20 billion more in Swedish health care than the government in the coming years. In my speech, I chose to put two clear questions to the Social Democrats. And in view of the decisions that are likely to be made here in Parliament in a few hours' time, I want to be clear about Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson: In what way do the Social Democrats intend to come back to Parliament to strengthen the patient's position and strengthen the choice of choice and care in Swedish healthcare?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-423	Mr President, I would like to I wish Cecilia Widegren could lower her tone a little and listen more to what I say. I presented a catalogue of measures that the government is taking and intends to take. However, she chooses not to listen. It is interesting that Cecilia Widegren addresses the summer problem. I recall that during the summers of 2006 – 2014 the same problem was often announced. How healthcare should work during holiday time is a problem, but one cannot claim that the previous alliance government did anything to resolve this. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates seem to ignore the major challenges that currently exist in Swedish healthcare and that the mass media very rightly describe every day. In the motion that the Moderates have written in connection with the spring change budget and the spring bill, there are no initiatives that meet the acute problems. The Red-Green Government chooses to invest 500 million in maternity care, which is in crisis. Swedish women in the big cities in particular experience great insecurity as to where they are going to feed and whether they can get the good care required in the sensitive situation they find themselves in. The government also invests 100 million to meet the mental health problems of children and young people. Instead, the Moderates choose to propose 22 billion in tax reductions. It is a recipe that has previously proved neither to bite unemployment nor to add more money to welfare.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-428	Mr President, I would like to I am amazed that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson did not use her reply to try to answer questions about how to deal with Parliament's decisions. Nevertheless, the Parliament is our highest decision-making body, and the government has to follow Parliament's decisions in the coming years. Then it is not about catalogues that you have worked with but about what you will do in the future. I still think that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson and the Social Democrats owe the answer. After all, they are aware of the decision that will be taken today. Ultimately, this is about strengthening for the individual patient the meeting with the health care staff of the welfare community. Of course, system changes are needed, as AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson also says. They have the government, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson and her colleagues, the responsibility to pick up. The Moderates have, as I said, presented initiatives in municipalities and county councils. We see the need for resources to be added to welfare, but concrete proposals are also needed to improve welfare. Such proposals continue to be made here in Parliament together with the alliance parties. I note that while the government has sat still and done nothing, the moderate-led Västra Götaland region just yesterday presented a broad agreement between all parties to implement two of the proposals on the table of the Government. It is about Stiernstedt and Rosén's investigation. One of our county councils, one of our principals, now chooses to go forward to strengthen the close care and continue to concentrate the highly specialised care. The government is therefore doing nothing while county councils and regions, moderate and alliance-led, will take precedence over and implement these proposals. They see the need to change, renew and improve for patients in health care. Where's the left-wing government?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-434	Mr President, I would like to Today's report contains two announcements, which we in the Swedish Democrats have supported. Although the purpose of the Patient Act, which was introduced in 2015, was to strengthen patients' position in health care, it has unfortunately not been so. This has been demonstrated in a report by the Agency's Health Analysis. That is why we have supported the announcement that the government must take the initiative to review the patient law. The second announcement is about developing the choice of care in specialised outpatient care. Cecilia Widegren from the Moderates has explained in an exemplary way the thoughts about it but unfortunately has not received an answer to how it is to be implemented. Mr President, I would like to I am only in favour of reservation 30, but of course I support all our reservations. We Swedish democrats believe that healthcare is a very important building block in society and well-being. A society without equal and accessible high-quality care cannot be called a welfare society. Therefore, we are very concerned about the reports from many localities around the country that the health care system is very strained. Operations are cancelled, and patients have to wait for care and treatment. In Helsingborg, Skåne, from which I come, cancer surgery has been cancelled on several occasions, which is totally unacceptable. This negative development is also evident in emergency medical care. An increasing number of emergency hospitals are failing to meet the maximum waiting time of four hours. On the contrary, alarmingly, waiting times are increasing throughout the country, as we have heard here today. Traditionally, Swedish healthcare has been an example to the outside world, but, unfortunately, because of the inability to deal with chronically long queues and waiting times, that is no longer the case today. This isn't good enough. Lack of action has led to Europe's longest healthcare queues. And it's even worse when it comes to waiting for surgery. Not least the youngest and most fragile are affected. For example, the lack of intensive care places for children is acute throughout the country. Every fourth place of those present today is closed. This means that sick children may be transported to other countries for treatment. It is even so bad that pediatricians go out and warn of a breakdown in paediatric care. They're proposing to set up an accident commission. This is not worthy of a country like Sweden. I agree with children's doctors' conclusion that it is a total medical accident. We Swedish democrats see the lack of accessibility and the lack of health care places as the most important issue to address. Of course, the lack of accessibility has several reasons, which is why, of course, we need a battery of measures, both resource-wise and organisationally. As far as organisational issues are concerned, we believe that national coordination is a prerequisite for meeting what you so nicely call the challenges in healthcare. We therefore propose that a national action plan be drawn up to ensure the quality and working environment of healthcare. Clear national strategies are needed to ensure that healthcare is equivalent throughout the country. One example of measures we would like to see is the development of a national mission for primary care, because that is where most of the need for care should be taken care of. Primary care should therefore be able to be responsible for the emergency care that does not have to be carried out in an emergency hospital. Perhaps this is precisely how we facilitate the pressure on emergency hospitals? We believe that the government should review this issue and take initiatives – not just talk. As has been said, there are shortcomings in the equality of care between county councils, with major differences in medical outcomes, accessibility, compliance with national guidelines, drug use, treatment and so on. An improvement could be achieved through changes in governance and a modernised replacement system. The quality of care can and must be improved. In order to further strengthen quality work and increase transparency in healthcare, more comparison models should be developed. We believe that the ambition to digitise healthcare in respect of medical records, registers, patient databases and biobanks must be increased. They should also be made more accessible. Of course, an integrity-proof national record system should be put in place to ensure faster, more efficient and, above all, easier management of records. Of course, improved monitoring and evaluation of the medical record system is also needed once it is in place to ensure the integrity, patient safety and quality of individual patients. The digital information should of course follow the patient throughout the care chain. We believe in Swedish healthcare. We believe in the people who work and do everything in their power to make healthcare work according to the current conditions. However, when one sees this crisis getting worse day after day, it is not good enough, as the government usually does, to renounce its own responsibilities and refer to the county councils, or in any case constantly answer that it is a matter for the county councils, and instead repeatedly repeat the mantra that healthcare faces challenges. Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that we call things by their proper names. It is time for the government to speak clearly on these issues. Swedish healthcare is in a crisis situation. To say otherwise is quite dishonest. I would like to call it a crisis when only one third of Swedes believe that healthcare works well. I'd like to call it a crisis when pediatricians go out and warn of a breakdown in paediatric care. I want to call it a crisis when the care queues grow, surgery is cancelled and people die. I want to call it a crisis when care places are missing and nurses run away from the profession. I'd like to call it a crisis when specialist doctors warn that they can't take responsibility for patient safety. Mr President, I would like to In a crisis situation where specialist doctors warn of the lack of patient safety and write letters to their hospital management that it is only a question of which patient dies first, the government instead seems more concerned about the Swedish people's sex habits and commissions the Swedish Public Health Agency to map the Swedes' sex lives. Then we have to call it a crisis situation on more than one level, Mr President. I'm in favour of reservation 30.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-451	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats and Carina Herrstedt say that they see the challenges of healthcare. You see the growing need to work more with accessibility and make sure that the healthcare staff are in place. Over half of the term of office has now passed. It is clear that with light and lantern we are looking for the proposals that the Swedish Democrats are presenting to address these challenges. I've been looking for lights and lanterns and counting carefully. Today's report deals with 340 proposals. It is about 20 of them who come from the Swedish Democrats. I think it's a little fuzzy, if I may say so. These are rather big words that the Swedish Democrats are now using. One claims to be the party that will solve the challenges of care. I find this highly unclear and therefore have three questions for Carina Herrstedt. My first question is: When will the proposals that answer the challenges be presented in the Swedish Parliament? I wonder if the term of office will pass before you choose to present party and committee movements that support your policy and correspond to all the words that you now choose to trump out, not least at press conferences. The important thing in the challenges of healthcare is to ensure that employees are present. Who's gonna do the job? Thirty per cent of healthcare workers are now born abroad. You should close the borders instead of making sure that more people can come to Sweden and contribute to developing welfare. So my second question is, who's going to do the job? We need more employees. We have a staff flight and a staff shortage and we need more hands. My third question is how this is to be financed. How are you gonna pay for the party? You chose to deduct 53 billion from municipalities and county councils in the previous budget. How will all the things you talk about be financed?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-456	Mr President, I would like to These are interesting questions. Here's the thing: It's not just about the motions you raise in Parliament, it's also about the budget documents you produce. From a budget document, there will be motions for resolutions. Of course, all the priorities are about money. We have tabled a draft budget. Obviously, Cecilia Widegren has seen the press conference and the proposals we presented there. They will, of course, generate motions that we will take a stand on. At that press conference we talked about that we want to invest almost SEK 6.5 billion more than the current government. Some suggestions are the right to full-time, more money for maternity care, end-of-life care, better working environment, skills upgrading for health professionals and so on. It also answers somewhere on question number two: Who will do the job? Today we have a staff flight. About 9,000 nurses have moved their profession and chosen to work in another area. First of all, in the short term, we must attract them back. They've fled for a reason. This is largely about a poor working environment, and then we must improve it. We do so through the proposals we have. It is about the right to full-time, the possibility of part-time work, to review the shared tours, the opportunity to train on working hours and so on. That answers those questions. It is clear that we need to increase the number of places on training courses and so on. But it's in the long term. In the short term, we must ensure that those who have already moved the profession are lured back and find out why they have done so.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-460	Mr President, I would like to After half the term of office, it is not the case that all the challenges of health care fell down yesterday. We have seen how they have grown during their term of office. The fact that the Swedish Democrats have not used that time to present more than a few concrete proposals, because there are still a few proposals, is quite odd. All of a sudden you come and have a huge press conference that's just about this and say: Then we're going to do this. We use the entire term of office to ensure that the policy is implemented. It's very amazing. We have not yet seen the proposals in Parliament. Of course we keep looking for them with lights and lanterns. In the second part, you choose to answer linked to the fact that there is a staff flight. I was more interested in how to refill. We need more employees in healthcare in the future. Sweden's municipalities and County Councils say that in the coming years there will be perhaps 200 000 more employees in the welfare sector. Today, 30% are born abroad. We believe there will be even more tomorrow. What do the Swedish Democrats think? Is it not time to open the boundaries to make it possible for some more hands to enter the care system? My third question is linked to funding. You can stand here and talk about billions of taxpayers' money, and you have to respect every penny of taxpayers' money. But it is not possible here in the Swedish Parliament not to talk about how to finance it. Plus and minus must go together. Then it is a proposal in the Swedish parliament. The previous proposal you put forward was a saving proposal for Sweden's municipalities and county councils of SEK 53 billion. It is Category 25, for those who are interested to go in and read it afterwards. That's not good enough, because that's where the hands in the care are supposed to work. You cannot talk in words about the right to full-time if you then do not have the economy enough to implement the proposals.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-465	Mr President, I would like to It is very dishonest to stand here and say that we have not had the proposals before. The vast majority of the proposals that we have presented at our press conference are proposals that we have made since we entered the Riksdag. These are proposals that we have put forward in the budget. I believe that Cecilia Widegren is fully aware that budgets are being set against each other. Our budgets have not been heard, and so there have been no proposals either. Many of the proposals are cost-driven, which means that they do not come up as motions in committees. That's it. When we talk about saving proposals and that the Swedish Democrats should have cut down, it is almost even more strange. Cecilia Widegren was earlier in this speaker's chair and pointed out that both areas of expenditure had to be looked at. I wonder if Cecilia Widegren really has. The savings that Cecilia Widegren is talking about are added to other areas. Overall, this is not about savings. If you are talking about a budget, you should have read it correctly. So you have to look at both places. We are talking about opening up borders. That is a rather interesting starting point. I do not know if Cecilia Widegren has looked at what the Swedish Democrats think about labour immigration. We have talked about the need to speed up validation and so on. Many of the discussions are on their own. We have had these proposals for a long time. We will also fund them. It will be presented in the budget that will be presented.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-471	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to note that Carina Herrstedt here talks about a crisis situation in healthcare. She mentions it many times and points out shortcomings in the Stockholm County Council, where they themselves sit and press the button and vote for all the proposals put forward by the alliance management in Stockholm County Council. That's where the crisis is big. They choose to consider this as an example in which they themselves could participate and influence. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Swedish Democrats are trying to broaden their policy to include health care. They want to populistically spend a lot of money on health care – we'll get back to it – and talk about it widely. The party leader Jimmie Åkesson says that they should turn to the health care professionals and do not hesitate to say that they should be capitalising on the possible trust of health care personnel. Which other party leader would speak in this way? It is about the fact that when they can no longer see a great interest in xenophobic policy among citizens, they must present populist unfunded proposals in order to capitalise on any confidence they may have in health professionals. Mr President, I would like to Nor is it good enough to come up with a bunch of bets and not tell them how to finance it. As I said, it is a loud tone about how to manage it. Last autumn, the Swedish Democrats proposed a cut to municipalities and county councils which during this year means a cut of 10 billion on health care.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-475	Mr President, I would like to I didn't hear any question but a lot of statements. First of all, I have not talked about Stockholm County Council. I haven't even mentioned it, but it may have happened. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson would very much like to talk about what proposals would be populist and what would be wrong with a party broadening its policy. That is exactly what politics is all about, seeing the problems in the outside world and trying to do something about them. If you just stick to your old politics, you wouldn't get anywhere, but you know everything about that. I cannot see what would be populist about talking about the right to full-time, the right to part-time and the removal of shared tours. Nor can I see what would be populist about improving the working environment for health professionals. I cannot see what would be populistic about trying to improve cancer care, improve child care and have care administrators around the country to relieve and pilot patients to the right place. I can't see what would be populistic about it at all. I'm having a really hard time understanding this line shift. Here we have a party that has entered the Riksdag fairly recently, which takes in all the information it can get and which makes proposals on it. Then it is all of a sudden populist despite the fact that many of the proposals are proposals that Social Democrats around the country themselves are pushing. But when we bring them, they're populist. I don't know which question to answer, but I think I've made some things clear.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-480	Mr President, I would like to I can start by asking the question I didn't have time for in the last line. The question is simply: how are the Swedish democrats to finance the promises they are now making in order to capitalise on the confidence they may have in the health care staff? That's my simple question. You can't give with one hand and bring the other. It is simply to note what Cecilia Widegren mentioned at the last turn of the line. In the autumn's budget, you proposed a reduction of EUR 53 billion in funding for municipalities and county councils. You have to be able to explain that somehow. When we take a closer look at it, it is an unfunded budget. It is, of course, populism to put forward proposals which cannot be implemented but which seem to be popular in order to capitalise on the confidence of health professionals. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the draft budget presented by Jimmie Åkesson this spring is of no interest. He has also said that every opportunity should be taken to vote for an alliance budget in order to get Anna Kinberg Batra as Prime Minister, and then we know that what will be prioritised is tax cuts instead of spending on welfare. How can the Swedish Democrats finance what they are proposing?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-484	Mr President, I would like to Of course, you can continue to call the proposals populist, but it seems very difficult to point out which proposals are populist when they are proposals you make yourself. How we are going to finance this, of course, we will come back to in the budget. It is not the case that proposals are put forward that cannot be financed; that would be totally unserious. I suggest we look at it. I cannot stand here today – I am honest about saying – and say exactly how it is to be financed. However, I do not fail to realise that much of the scope for reform we have had in the past has come from RUT's calculations when we have talked about reducing immigration. We have asked the RUT to calculate how it would burden the different areas. So part of the funding will probably come from there, but I cannot stand here and say that. Of course we'll have to look at that. When it comes to giving with one hand and taking with the other, it is somewhere that the budget is about – that you take from one place and put on another. In the same area, it may be directly inappropriate; I would agree with that. Many of the proposals we put forward are not new. Of course it's a crisis. No one can say otherwise. It's an emergency! We have 1 500 hospital beds that are empty in the country's largest hospital today – that's equal to 1 in 10 beds – because we don't have staff to take care of patients. We need a coordinator. If I can't get care in my own county council, we mean that one should be able to review the possibility of someone coordinating and directly see where in the country there is a vacancy, so that I get where there is capacity. For there is – believe it or not – an overcapacity in some places in the country, and we must make much better use of it.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-490	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working on a long-term and very purposeful development and strengthening of welfare policy. Any one of us in this House, you in the gallery or you who otherwise follow debates in this House may at any time suffer ill-health. No one can know with certainty in advance when their own need for health care arises. That is why we are all so concerned about the proper functioning of health care. Last week we debated public health, and now we are dealing with health issues. At that time, the debate focused primarily on various measures to prevent and avoid ill-health for citizens as far as possible, and now we have come to issues relating to the tasks of society when ill-health has hit so hard that health care is a reasonable alternative and perhaps even inevitable alternative. Healthcare also has a major role to play in terms of prevention, but that is not what today's debate is all about. This debate deals with issues such as the organisation and management of care, ethics and quality of care, the patient law, equality and equality in healthcare, permit requirements, compensation systems, fees, e-health, cross-border care and alternative treatments – to take just a few examples from the report's table of contents. The health sector is thus a very comprehensive policy area, but it is also an area in which – despite the high tone of the debate earlier – there is broad consensus on both the principles of care and the objectives of activities. However, the large amount of exercise reveals that, despite this, there are still some differences of opinion on how to achieve the goals and how to apply the basic principles. I am thinking, first and foremost, of the great common principle of insurance. No one really wants to have to use the common resources for care, yet everyone wants to be sure that all the possible resources are available if it ever happens. If you or your loved one, perhaps a child or a close friend, suffer ill health to an extent that requires extensive care, we all want to be sure that the best care available is actually at our disposal. I believe that there are, in principle, two ways for the individual to ensure that they have access to the best care on the day they may be needed. The method we have long chosen in Sweden is that all citizens contribute according to their ability to jointly fund healthcare and that everyone has the same rights to care when it is needed. In addition, we have added an old one to this and, as I understand it – I am quite new in this area – a well-established principle that the one with the greatest need for care should go first in cases where priorities are required of the resources available. The fact that resources in health care would be so well used that they would not need priorities is probably a wishful idea of a situation that might not even be very good from a quality point of view. The principle that the greatest need goes first I think can be repeated many times, because it is a bit alien in a market economy and yet seems to survive any attempt at attack. In almost all other areas, we rely on the basic market economy principle that supply and demand control both supply volume and price, which means that the size of the wallet is important. But when it comes to health care, and in fact almost all other jointly funded public activities, we are all equally worth. The individual's wallet should therefore not affect the distribution of health care resources. It's the greatest need that goes first. In extreme situations – for example, in the event of really big accidents or disasters – another principle may take over, I have also learned, namely that the people with the greatest chance of survival can go ahead of those who are deemed to have little chance of survival. But I have also understood that most people who work with healthcare do not want to end up in a situation where you have to make that kind of choice – and also that it is unusual that you have to make that kind of choice in Swedish care. This in itself may say that we are actually allocating enough resources to the health area. It is a matter of avoiding making the most difficult priorities but still not using enough resources for health care to put places at risk of being untapped at times. The second method for the individual to try to guard himself so that he has access to the best possible care is to buy into a different collective of possible care needs than the large public, which covers everyone. The idea of such a solution is to share the costs with people who are not expected to have such a need for care in the future or who are able to deposit significantly higher amounts into the group's joint health fund than the provision that it is possible to require citizens for the cashier to be at the common disposal of all. The second method is therefore private health insurance. These insurance policies can be designed in many different ways, for example, covering only certain types of care needs, since those who take out private health insurance actually retain the same rights as everyone else to the publicly funded joint care. Regardless of the scope or design of private health insurance, there is one thing that they have in common, namely the purpose and the very argument that they should provide to some extent more secure access to a faster, better, more accessible or in any other way for the individual's more valuable health service. So it is no longer the basic principle that the greatest need goes first, but here it is an agreement that determines how, when and what. So here the wallet matters, but of course only on condition that the individual has been very proactive. Those of us who see that common societal solutions have many advantages and fulfil important functions, but also that the market economy has a role to play, for example in the area of health care, often see the need for regulation to ensure that the decisions taken democratically are not put out of practice or rounded up by the market. Since healthcare interventions can be extremely costly, the basic idea of having a very large insurance collective is that most people do not have to burden the system but still pay. That is why those with great needs can actually have their needs satisfied. Although private health insurance has now grown to cover more than 600 000 insured persons, it is still a rather small collective with relatively small resources, which is also divided into sub-groups linked to different insurance companies and contract forms. Most so-called insurance patients do not have access, through their insurance policies, to any health institution other than the one financed mainly by public funds. Simplified, it can be said that it is normally a case of private health providers who have their activities mixed with insurance companies and mainly, in most cases, via the public sector. The question then under constant discussion is to what extent public resources could possibly benefit the insurance patient through a different priority rule from the one dealing with the greatest need to go first. The healthcare provider shall not take resources from the publicly funded part of its activities to treat an insurance patient on any grounds other than the fact that the insurance patient has a greater need for care than other patients in the healthcare provider. To ensure that the resources allocated jointly and severally by all citizens for health care continue to be allocated as far as possible under this principle of need, I believe, is one of the most important issues in the health debate. Here, perhaps, the ethical platform Well-being perception, which is one of the many measures set out in this report, can play a major role. Mixed funding from sources based on conflicting principles always creates difficulties. I think everyone understands that and even has experience of that. The easiest way would therefore be to completely separate the delivery of care financed from these two different directions. But perhaps the IT platform Well-being approach, which is now being developed through increased transparency, can solve the problem of ambiguities in mixed funding. With regard to the motions and other proposals dealt with in the report, I can only say that, as usual, the government is ahead of the motionaries and is working on all the issues raised by the exercisers. Therefore, as usual, regardless of which government is in power, the motions are dismissed with reference to the ongoing work on the issues. Of course, I support our two reservations in the report, but for time to come I am abstaining from calling for their approval. In other respects, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-511	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor very much because of what Jan Lindholm touched on at the end of his speech on health insurance solutions. This is something that is not really to a great extent or even touched upon in the report, but is nevertheless a relevant part of the health system that we have. It is true, as Jan Lindholm points out, that the number of insurance patients has increased. This is linked to what I highlighted in my speech: that confidence in Swedish health care under the current government is falling. It is not trusted that the solidarity-funded system we have is sufficient for when care is required. We're getting increased queues. We get a decrease in trust that is because the care is not actually there when you need it. We share what does not seem at all to be an idea of what the insurance options mean in healthcare. The displacement effects indicated here do not exist. Of course, patients come to an establishment where on the one hand they carry out care paid by the county council and on the other hand they carry out care that is paid out of private wallets, but the care that is paid in private would not otherwise exist. Many of these care providers say that they can receive patients from the county council because they have insurance patients. It is possible to have an operating room open because they can fill it all the time, so that the queues are actually shortened also for those who do not have insurance. But it is still a problem that trust in Swedish health care is decreasing.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-515	Mr President, I would like to When you describe care from the opposition, it is just as if there was no reality before this government took office. I think it's strange. You must know that people left the care even during your eight years in power. You must know that. And you must also know that people are actually coming back to medical care today. People are streaming out of medical care, and they're streaming back to medical care. You describe it as being tremendously drastic changes. You were in power for eight years. You had to take over a government budget of 70 billion in surplus. When you left the government, you had about 70 billion in deficit. So you spent the accumulated money and you borrowed money, and it is clear that a lot can be done then, but the net result was not so much to boast about. The loss of confidence in health care is nothing that has arisen now. These developments have been going on for a long time, certainly for many different reasons. The fact that the number of insurance solutions has increased has not only to do with it. There are many other reasons why insurance solutions are considered good. Changes are taking place all the time, and I find it strange that you describe it as empty and not containing any proposals. This report is over 120 pages, and most of it is actually reports of measures taken by this government. A lot is happening in health care when it comes to taking care of these problems that you describe. It is not ours but yours to describe the problems in the first place, but I think we are taking care of them in a very good way.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-519	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether the question I asked was answered at all. However, in order to respond to any of the points raised by Jan Lindholm, I would like to say that we are fully aware that things have happened during our time in government. In fact, it was then that things happened with regard to health care. We started by finding out how Swedish healthcare works. We started measuring queues and results. Until then, that knowledge did not exist. The problems were hidden by not highlighting where they were. By putting the spotlight on the areas where Swedish health care did not work, we were told where we needed to deploy the resources. And we put in the resources. Never before has so much been invested, not only in real money, but also per person in welfare, as in our time as an alliance government. It was also during that time that the world, including Sweden, went through a huge economic crisis. Yet we managed to devote more resources to what is our most important welfare activity, namely health care and care. We have a problem in Swedish healthcare today. The report says a lot about what is being done. Most of this is the completion of what we started. We started a development work and continued it. We took steps, and then we evaluated, looked at what did not work well enough and continued. Some of this you carry out, but no results are delivered. So the question is: What is the Green Party's answer to the fact that today we have a reduced confidence in Swedish health care and a policy that means that it should be free to stand even further in line in a society where the queues for care are growing? What is the Green Party's policy for Swedish health care?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-523	Mr President, I would like to I still think it is important that we have a correct statement of reality. The alliance parties hide very much behind the global economic crisis and claim that it would have been a huge problem for Sweden. In reality, it was during a very short period that the Swedish economy was hit; Sweden went very well through the crisis compared to virtually all other countries. So this is not a reason that can be used to try to explain away that you actually deteriorated the Swedish economy tremendously – from 70 billion plus to 70 million minus. It wasn't a good result. This must be in the pot when talking about your term of office. It was good that you started a lot to get a better national picture of healthcare. I have not been involved in healthcare before, but I know that we had a good picture of what the care looked like in my county council, where I come from. This has certainly contributed. We have also noted, as Anna-Lena Sörenson mentioned earlier, that some of the measures you took did not have the effects you claim. We have found that there are other problems. It does not help to produce a lot of documents with a lot of promises, but you have to do something hands-on. That's what we've done. I don't know-- maybe this comes from the investigations and the processes that you started. However, we can see that the problem is that there is a lack of competence. We have focused on this instead: making sure that care is provided with staff. It'll take some time. During your time, this was not done, but then people left the business. Now, on the other hand, we make sure to actually further educate and further develop so that those who work in healthcare can gain higher skills. We think this is really the most important piece of the puzzle to add now. Earlier, when you ruled, perhaps there were more important puzzle pieces to add, but now it is the skills supply that is the great and important action.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-529	Mr President, I would like to I always start the health-care debates by stating that Sweden has an absolutely amazing health care. No matter what disease you suffer, Sweden is the right country to be in. Having said that, however, it is important to note that healthcare today faces enormous challenges. It doesn't matter if we take part of what is said on television, radio or newspapers, or by neighbors or relatives: The problems in health care are huge. Last night at Coins Square I met a bunch of repentant people from Sollefteå. They were devastated that the Social Democrats have shut down BB there. This is a clear sign that healthcare is very different depending on where in Sweden you live. At this point it is particularly serious that we have a government that seems to have completely surrendered. The proposals and proposals for changes that we have received so far during our term of office have come, above all, from investigations set up during the time of the alliance government. Now the government has launched two new investigations. One is about supplementing the quacksalverislagen by including mental diagnoses. The second one is about including alternative medicine. This is happening in a situation where healthcare has huge problems. In particular, I would like to highlight two areas. It is first of all about primary care, which is the hub of Swedish health care and yet one of our absolutely weakest points. This can be seen when you meet people but also in a number of international evaluations. The latest evaluation came from the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis, the expert authority that the Alliance Government formed and whose only task is to follow changes in Swedish healthcare. They could point to a number of shortcomings in Swedish primary care. Many of these are linked to the fact that we have few doctors and a very large proportion of relay doctors in primary care. Stafel doctors are getting more and more; today the figure is up to 1,500. Only 50% of Swedish patients, who are close to 10 million, have a permanent doctor in primary care. No wonder we're having problems with primary care! This compares with other countries. In Norway, 97 - 98% actually have a fixed doctor's contact in primary care. We in the Center Party have said that this is not difficult to remedy. Look at what they did in Norway! They had exactly the same problem as us in the '90s. But there it was an active Arbeider Party government that said that this was totally unacceptable. Action must be taken here. Norwegian primary care was reformed so that today it is largely run by private practitioners. At the same time, there is virtually complete coverage – almost all Norwegians have a permanent medical contact in primary care. There is a great deal you could do here. But what does the government do? I wish I could say nothing, but it doesn't even. The first proposal was to abolish the free choice of care. That proposal was so poorly prepared that it had to be withdrawn. The second measure was to set up a primary care coordinator. Yes, you heard correctly: a person who will coordinate the Swedish primary care and ensure that we get order and order. These are 10 million patients. The third and perhaps worst is the proposal that came the other day, when Mr Reepalu presented his final report. It is about basically pulling the carpet away for 50 per cent of the Swedish primary care. Today, half of all medical visits to primary care are carried out by private carers. At the government's request, it is proposed that the carpet should in principle be removed and these units should be closed. Of course, from the left side you say that they can continue with these rules. But if you visit these private health centres – Söderhamn Health Centre, Nya Närvården i Hoting – they explain that with these rules it is completely impossible to conduct private activities. The consequence will be that they will be forced to close. As previous speakers have said, the Health Care Association describes this as a medical collapse. Environmental Party representative Anders Åkesson, who is on the party board, I think, and is regional councillor in Skåne, says this: On the contrary, there are great risks. Many regions have a strained economy and accessibility problems. If a profit cap is introduced, it can hit accessibility, and that is not good. Yet the Green Party in this House is competing with the Left Party to close down the private part of primary care as soon as possible. I wish, Mr President, that at this point we had a government that could reach out and say that we have major challenges in Swedish welfare and health care and that we need to find cross-block solutions in order to be able to set tough quality requirements, instead of pulling away the carpet for well-functioning units. The second major challenge is accessibility. We are seeing an increase in queues, and this is linked to the cue billion that was abolished – one of the first proposals of the left-wing government. Now it has been realised that this was probably not very good. Clearly, the strategy is to introduce a solar tax and then go to elections to abolish it. One removes the Alliance's cue billion; then one suddenly sees the consequences of this and goes to the elections to introduce it. It would be better if you did the right thing in the first place. But perhaps the most serious thing in this is the attack by attacking private health insurance. People, and especially employers, cannot stand there and see how the queues are growing. If you have an employee who needs to have a hip surgery, you cannot wait two or three four months, but then you try to find a solution. This is now on the left side and wants to put an end to it. It is extremely serious! I also do not want very much private health insurance, simply so that you do not have to pay twice for the same thing. If you have paid taxes, you should get medical care that way. But what we are now doing is instead of fixing the queues that we have in Swedish healthcare to attack those who are actually trying to find their own solutions to escape the chaos that has been created in Swedish healthcare. This is extremely serious, as I see it. As far as the Centre Party is concerned, we obviously support the reservations we have in this report, but for time to come, I choose to vote in favour only of reservation 22.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-548	Mr President, I would like to Anders W Jonsson, like his alliance colleagues who have spoken earlier in this House today, chooses to try to paint a picture of the government doing absolutely nothing. He highlights some peripheral investigations, and in some way devalues the coordinator who has a very good reputation and great confidence in the Swedish medical system and who has been given the task of coordinating primary care. But I am pleased that the Center Party has appointed a very competent and talented politician from Kalmar in the reference group. I hope that Anders W Jonsson will support this work in due course. Anders W Jonsson chose not to talk about strengthening the patient's position. Several others have spoken about this today, and as you know, we have a reservation on this. We have legislation in which the Alliance Government very well chose to bring the patient's rights into a single piece of legislation. I think that was very good. However, in the evaluations submitted by the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis, we have seen that this legislation is not implemented in healthcare. It's having trouble getting an impact. I have been asked several times today what we are going to do about it. I will gladly come back to that, but the question remains: what does the Alliance think about this legislation? Are you prepared to go further? I haven't heard any suggestions on how to tighten it up. Are you thinking of a law of rights in which the questions are to be decided in court? Does it not lead to even more rules and more squareness that limit the ability of healthcare professionals and care to create the conditions to provide better care and to put the patient in focus and in reality strengthen the patient's position?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-553	Mr President, I would like to I am glad Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson asked the question. The patient law is very good, but it needs to be tightened up and it needs to be better known in healthcare. The obligation to provide information to children in a way that they understand is not something that is done in the short term. It takes a lot of training. But what do we want to do to tighten up the legislation? Above all, we want to extend the rights of the patient. If I suffer from an illness where I can get help in outpatient care, i.e. go to a clinic, then I have the right to seek care just anywhere in the country. However, if I suffer from a more serious illness – for example, cancer or a severe rheumatic disease – where I may need help in an outpatient clinic while I may need to spend the night, i.e. inpatient care, then the patient law stops. When it comes to inpatient care, I don't have the right to choose. It is the most obvious sign and the most serious sign of what should be done to strengthen the patient's right. As a patient, you should not have to consider whether the illness you have requires outpatient care or inpatient care before choosing to apply to another county council. The patient should have a clear message there. Regardless of the disease you suffer if you live in Gävle, you can choose whether you want to go to Falun, Uppsala or Sundsvall to receive treatment for your illness. That is the clearest example. I do not underestimate the fact that we have a primary care coordinator, but the problem is so much bigger than a person at the Ministry of Social Affairs being able to solve it. Only 50 per cent of the Swedish people have a permanent medical contact in primary care. There are 1,500 relay doctors who travel around offering inadequate medical care. It is now believed that these problems can be solved through a primary care coordinator. Instead, we should do just as the Norwegian Social Democracy during Jens Stoltenberg did. Strong reforms were implemented that made a difference to patients. That is what we are asking for, and that is what we are proposing.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-558	Mr President, I would like to I was told that Anders W Jonsson would come with increased freedom of choice with free right of establishment in order to strengthen the patient's position. It places even more responsibility on the patient to be able to carry out his or her own care, and that means voting with his or her feet. This means in practice that there will be more private health centres in Stockholm and concentration in the metropolitan areas, which would be a universal solution. Anders W Jonsson calls for strong reforms. There's a deal. Let's hook our arm and make sure this is done. But the proposal that has come from Göran Stiernstedt requires more investigation and coordination. Now we have taken a first step by appointing coordinator Anna Nergårdh. What is needed to strengthen the patient's position must now be implemented in the care. The existing legislation needs to be implemented, and this requires more continuity in healthcare contacts and IT solutions that enable you to carry your own documentation and communicate with healthcare. There is a need for overall responsibility for the patient's needs and better collaboration. Professional-neutral care guarantee is needed – this is the first proposal that Anna Nergårdh will leave this summer – more open forms of care and close care. There is a need for more care at home, where you are hosting the health care professionals yourself. This can be made possible by implementing the strong structural reforms in health care. Let us arm it instead of investing in tax cuts and privatisations in health care!
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-562	Mr President, I would like to I think this is a very good line change. It shows how big a difference there is between the Center Party and the Social Democrats. I say: Increase the right for patients to choose where in the country they want their care, regardless of whether you need inpatient care! Then the Social Democrats interpret it so that it must be stopped. What if the patient in Gävle chooses a private performer in Uppsala! But cancer affects you, there are not many private practitioners who offer inpatient care. The Social Democrats see this as a threat because it may mean that the patient chooses a private alternative. I from the Center Party say: The important thing here is that the patient should have the right to choose where in the country they want their care. The patient should not have to consider whether it is an outpatient or inpatient care. The patient should know that if you suffer from a disease and do not want care at home in Gävle, you should be able to choose to go to Sundsvall or Falun. But it sees the Social Democrats as a threat, and their terrible thought is: Imagine if the patient from Gävle would go to Sundsvall and choose a private performer! This also applies to primary care. There we say from the Center Party that the situation is urgent. Only 50 per cent of the Swedish population have a permanent medical contact at all. There are hordes of relay doctors going around the country. They offer less health care and make a lot of money. Then we say from the Center Party: Look at Norway! The Arbeider Party government under Jens Stoltenberg pushed through the permanent reform at the turn of the millennium, and this has solved the problem. The Social Democrats say: Typical, now they are there and are proposing privatisation again. After all, the social democratic reform in Norway led to primary care there being largely private – 98% or something like that. Mr President, I would like to There you can see extremely clearly on which side you stand in the health care debate. Is it about the patient's right to receive good care, or is it about dogmatically fighting private solutions?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-567	Mr President, I would like to Resources are not everything in healthcare, but it is certainly good with the 10 billion that also benefits healthcare! And what a benefit the 5 billion had done in the entire welfare of 2014 – in healthcare, school and care – if the profits had instead been reinvested in welfare! You can think about that. The Left has been involved in negotiating money for maternity care, mental health, free mammography and resources for targeted interventions in economically vulnerable areas. Welfare and care must be strengthened. You don't do that through reduced taxes. It doesn't open a single hospital. It is interesting that the Moderates want to reduce the tax by SEK 22 billion per year. That would be the biggest tax cut in ten years, and the money they want to take as usual from the poor, the sick and the unemployed. Will it not be difficult to stand here and talk about how the healthcare system will develop? It's a little foggy. How many nurses will that be? And the Swedish Democrats want to be the new Health Party with your incomprehensible budget. You always want to make savings on refugees. This is not in keeping with the fact that, due to retirement and increased needs, 225 000 new employees will be needed in health and social care up to the year 2023. Nearly one third of all doctors, carers and personal assistants were born abroad, as well as nearly one in four nurses. Suck it, the Swedish Democrats! The former Alliance and the Swedish Democrats trumpet out that the health care problems appeared approximately in September 2014. To be honest, this is a development that we have seen for a long time. I really wonder whether the tax cuts of 140 billion in 2006–2014 strengthened health care. What evidence do you have for that? I wonder. Is it better working conditions for health workers and the whole of health care if tax is reduced? I'm very skeptical, I must say. The only way to meet the healthcare needs of the future is to safeguard tax-funded care. Freedom of choice, yes, we are in favour of it, but as far as freedom of establishment is concerned, we have gone completely wrong. The resources will be directed to where they are most needed. Otherwise, they'll end up with the greatest need at the back of the line. We can see that in various investigations. In addition, your fiddless for winnings in the host generates a prize hunt in which detours also appear, specifically in Stockholm, where 35 per cent of all healthcare is privatised. Many care places are empty due to staff shortages throughout Sweden. We have been able to follow this trend for a very long time. Closed care places have been part of a strategy with wrong priorities throughout healthcare. Between 2007 and 2011, for example, the number of care places decreased by nearly 600, and it was purely strategic. So it was not because there were no staff, but because they simply chose to do so. Here in Stockholm, right-wing politics, supported by the Swedish Democrats during the last parliamentary term, has prevailed for eleven years. This is your experimental workshop. It's interesting to dive down there, I must say. Here 15 percent of all care places are closed. This is an increase of 4 percent since last year. It's like a hospital. The reason is the lack of staff, especially nurses. Is this the fault of the present government? I really wonder. At Nya Karolinska in Solna, one in ten planned surgery for children has been cancelled. It's about seriously ill children. One third of the care places are closed, and severely ill children are forced to wait a very long time for vital surgery. Children's doctors at the hospital call the situation an accident. But it is you who have been in Stockholm for eleven years. That should be brilliant results! But rather, it is your policy in practice that has had a complete impact. It's called bad business. The key in health care is to provide staff with good wages, reduced working hours, good working environment and that the staff can also be involved in developing their departments, as well as paying for the training when nurses train as specialist nurses. It's for the benefit of patients. I intend to highlight gender equality and focus on it in health care. Sweden has, as we have said before, great health differences, and they have increased in recent years. Differences in power and influence, the economy and the working environment as well as access to health care and stimulating habitats are the main reasons for the increase in health gaps. The differences in health among the population also reflect the care received. Women's health has in many ways been neglected and not as high a priority as men's. It is therefore fantastic that the government, together with the Left Party, has presented a series of initiatives on women and women's health. But I am most proud that the government has together with us implemented an investment in reinforced maternity care of SEK 200 million in 2015 and thereafter SEK 400 million per year during the current term and SEK 500 million in the spring budget. Sweden is a country that is high in terms of birth defects within the OECD. 11% of women who give birth vaginally in Sweden have various birth injuries. I am very pleased that this effort is being made. I know the Center Party didn't exactly cheer. I'm sure you didn't support this. We're really talking gender equality here. Mr President, I would like to We see that there is also a need to work more long-term with gender equality issues and to continue to challenge the gender power system we can see throughout society and which affects what care we receive or do not receive and which medicine is prescribed to men and women respectively. The Government should set up an investigation into a national governance document for health care, with particular emphasis on gender and the importance of gender equality in health care. Programs for screening, so-called cell samples, have had an important part in reducing uterine cancer. Cell sampling allows early cell changes to be detected and treated even before they develop into cervical cancer. It is also documented that women who regularly participate in the screening program for gynecological cell sampling reduce their risk of cervical cancer by about 90 percent. Currently, four of Sweden's 21 county councils offer women cell sampling free of charge. Against this background, the government should investigate the link of fees to the tendency to go and test for gynecological screening for the group of women up to the age of 60. We think it is an important issue. Mr President, I would like to Today, child health care lacks national policy documents, while there are large differences in health care between different activities around the country. Parents' income, education and country of birth have an impact on access to healthcare, and there are clear trends that health gaps are increasing rapidly. There are very large health differences between different parts of Sweden, and despite multiple higher ill health rates, health care resources in vulnerable areas are often worse. Child health care has good coverage but reaches different groups to different degrees. There is a great need to develop interventions into vulnerable groups. This applies in particular to the prevention of mental illness and support for socially vulnerable families. The inequality of care is serious, especially when it comes to children. The Left wants the Government to instruct the appropriate authority to develop a national strategy to ensure that all children in Sweden have access to equivalent healthcare on equal terms. Another care is possible, but it will never be through tax cuts and profit hunting. Strengthen your welfare! Of course, we support all our reservations, but for the sake of time, I am only in favour of reservation 12.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-588	Mr President, I would like to I would like to respond to three points raised by Karin Rågsjö. First, she draws the parade example and says that we widowed taxes for 140 billion. That money would have been needed more in health care, indeed! Yes, but when we look at resources for health care and county councils we can see that in 2014 they had 200 billion more in revenue than they had in 2006. If you look at the number of doctors in 2014 compared to 2006, you can see that there were 3,500 more. The number of nurses was 5 200 more. It is thus these massive increases in both financial resources and staff that Karin Rågsjö describes as terrible cuts in health care in Sweden during the year of the Alliance. Karin Rågsjö's favourite subject is Stockholm. She does not see the rest of the country, but the problems are concentrated in Stockholm. Then I would like to ask Karin Rågsjö to take note of the comparisons made between Stockholm County Council and the rest of the country. There are major problems in Stockholm County Council, but on a number of parameters the situation here is much better than especially in the left-hand county councils north. In terms of waiting times, overcrowding, relocation and patient and staff satisfaction, the Stockholm County Council beats both the national index and, above all, the left-wing county councils. But my question to Karin Rågsjö concerns the 500 million, which the Left Party has got loose to invest in childbirth. When you ask heads of delivery units in the country what they're using this temporary money for, you're told it's not to raise wages – you can't do that with temporary state grants – and not to hire more. What you do is above all to buy new technical equipment. My question is this: was this what you, the Left Party, intended when the Social Democrats gave you a gift in the form of SEK 500 million?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-592	Mr President, I would like to We can start with maternity care. The fact that we wanted to invest in it is primarily about that we looked at what it looked like with childbirth care in Sweden. It looked so damn bad, excuse the swearing or half-worshiping! That is why we wanted to invest this money, which is annual. Anders Jonsson was one of those who did not want to support this, although there were clear indications that maternity care needed resources. Then I can agree with you. I wish that this 500 million could be in line next year too – we do not know that. But this is important, because we have also received signals about, for example, the summer. What are we gonna do? You have to develop. Care must be taken to ensure that midwives can re-enter the premises in order to strengthen health care and to strengthen childbirth. The issue of maternity care is a gender equality issue. It is very important to have new resources for this. We've been looking at the reports we received from SKL. I have to say that what you're telling me is not what we see in the reports about how things are around the country. Then we return to Stockholm. That I like to look at Stockholm is no wonder, because this is where your policy has been held for eleven years. Then you can follow this, and then you can think: Wow, it must be a fantastic access to health centres and so on. Now they have looked at what it looks like, in a specific survey that the county council has produced. I got numbers on it yesterday. It looks pretty bad. It is not very easy to get to primary care in Stockholm. Stockholm has extreme problems with governance, and it is because politicians have handed over healthcare to the market and lost track.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-596	Mr President, I would like to What fascinates is the Left Party's view of how Swedish healthcare should be managed. They sit here in the Riksdag, in the Left Party office, and say: Childbirth is probably the big problem around Sweden. We're negotiating 500 million to go to childbirth. Yes, but in Norrbotten you might say that the problem is cancer care. In Jämtland, you may think that the problem is how to take care of disabled children and young people. But then the Left Party has decided that it is 500 million kronor to go to childbirth and nothing else. That's the first objection I have. Instead, the Center Party proposed a general increase in state subsidies, permanently, to municipalities and county councils. Then they would have been able to make the priorities themselves. Then I have a second objection. In a situation where the Left Party, via the government, donates SEK 500 million during one or two years to the Swedish maternity units, the birth managers stand hands-on and say: What should we do with that money? We cannot increase wages, as we would like, because it is temporary money. They can smoke in 2019. Even if there are unemployed midwives, we cannot hire more midwives, because suddenly the temporary state allowance disappears. Then the Left Party or any other party in the Riksdag has found that it is not in childbirth that the major problems exist, but perhaps they are in psychiatry. You thank and receive the gift from the wise state, but what you end up in is: Yes, we must buy new machines. We did that three years ago, but we have to cut the money. And some who have a pretty good staff situation can send some staff to training. So that's how it will be in Medical Sweden in a situation where the Left Party rules. Not least the Swedish National Audit Office has said: Don't be targeted state subsidies! Let county councils make their own priorities! That's where my objection is. It is not about that it would be problem-free in childbirth care in Sweden.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-599	Mr President, I would like to Now it's not the only thing we've invested in. I started by talking about the 10 billion. I am one of those who would like to strengthen health care much more in all areas. But you can look at what bets have been made. There have been major investments in cancer care, mental illness and other areas. It's obvious. When it comes to childbirth, it's not like we're sitting in our office looking out the window. Let's go around and watch and talk to people. It is strange that the birth injuries – it is about 11% of all women who give birth vaginally – were not taken more seriously when you were in power. I'm surprised. I was very surprised when I saw the numbers and understood how bad it was. The sad thing in the history of childbirth is that it looked the worst in Stockholm County Council. Perhaps it was also about the enormous pressure that arose when BB Sophia was shut down, when the whole BB business in this region shook. In fact, the responsibility for the whole birth would have been transferred to the private operator, who left. That's what happens, Anders W Jonsson, when you put power in that way. Then I agree with you. Of course, we need to strengthen health care throughout Sweden in different ways. It is about cancer care, child health care, mental illness and specifically primary care. But then you also have to make sure that people who work in health care have the nicest conditions and want to work. You can get people back. What we are seeing today is that people are leaving health care because they are not allowed to do what they want to do, because they have poor wages and because they have working hours that do not work. There we want to go in and reinforce – of course.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-603	Mr President, I would like to The picture we get of Swedish health care depends very much on what data we start from and what purpose we have in the debate. In Parliament we have just to discuss problems and how they can be solved and, of course, to look at each other's efforts in this area. But you can look at what international assessors do for assessments of Swedish healthcare in comparison with other countries. Based on statistics and our quality comparisons, etc., you get a different picture than that we see in this House today. Internationally – Anders W Jonsson said so too – we stand very well. But good can get much better. What I want to highlight here is that it is positive that we have two announcements. One is about strengthening the patient law. 35 years ago we received the Health Act, which was spectacular internationally. The patient would be involved in the decisions and be involved in the decision. That would be informed consent. This was also sensational in Swedish healthcare. Many doctors, nurses and others were not trained to communicate, discuss treatment options, offer second opinion and so on. The working method is deep in the spinal cord of many who have worked on the basis of a more paternalistic way of working. You could say that it was like turning an atlanteer in Sandhamnsgatet, the Sandhamn hole. During the time of the alliance government, we found that we had to change this. The team we had was too unclear. It worked on this, and so we got today's patient law. We can all say that it has not had an impact. It hasn't had much time, but we can't wait any longer. It must be strengthened. It must then be made clear that every health-care meeting should have a dialogue with the patient. What treatment options are available? Would you like some time to think about it? You want second opinion? There must be time for this in the health conference. It is not possible to achieve this in a few minutes. It is part of the change that we need to get in health care. It's about time for the patient meeting. There is ongoing work within the framework of Göran Stiernstedt's investigation and Anna Nergårdh's continuation. Then there was no support for maintaining the choice of care. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 22. Of course, I support the other liberal reservations. This is a very important part of the development of our health care. Several have been inside Norway. I would also like to highlight the Netherlands, where primary care is privately organised. Doctors and nurses all have an interest in the patients being satisfied and coming back. There will be continuity there which unfortunately we do not have in today's health care. The second announcement is about developing specialist care in primary care. This is good, because there has been a vision for too long that it is the specialists in general medicine who should be out there. However, if we are now to move the health care sector out of hospitals to a large extent, because today we have treatment methods that make it possible to treat outpatient care, the specialists must also be there for people with chronic diseases. We in the Liberals are very positive about the development of the care center tank, next to the BVC and MVC. It has also proved to be very positive for the years-rich people who are seeking an AVC and get a first call with a nurse for an hour. In that hour you have time to say a lot, and you also have time to build trust and relationship. After that, you get an equivalent amount of time with a doctor. Then you can handle a lot on the phone, because you know each other and know what it is all about. The fact that specialist knowledge can be taken out into primary care will also mean a lot to people with more rare diseases. However, this does not happen everywhere, because diseases are too rare. Among the 340 requests that we have to deal with today are the claim n for endometriosis and also for the lymphatic diseases. Through this development of primary care, people with these diseases have much better opportunities to receive care. Of course, there must also be a knowledge base that is not only developed but also communicated. Those who work in primary care must also take the knowledge to heart. I would also like to raise another issue, and it is about the laws that clash with each other. There are many laws in the area of health care, ranging from municipal legislation with municipal self-determination to data security legislation, social services law, LSS and so on. There is a clear example that affects patient safety in a very negative way, and that is that the Patient Safety Act and the Drug Act clash with the Data Act so that we cannot get to a national prescription database. It is a very important issue that the government must address. Anders W Jonsson mentioned a number of investigations, and many requests for exercise have been made here because referral is ongoing or the questions are being prepared in the Government Office. I would like to see a timetable for this. These include organ transplantation and assisted fertilization, as well as tobacco, addiction and so on. Finally, Mr President, I am pleased that we have received that comitology directive which Anders W Jonsson was not so very appreciative of, Increased patient influence and patient safety in healthcare and treatment other than that carried out in established care, and which is to be led by Kjell Asplund. Now mental illness may be included in the list of diseases that you are not allowed to treat if you are not licensed. Maybe the Kvacksalveri Act can be buried.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-616	Mr President, I would like to Barbro Westerholm is very wise and knows a lot, and we have great respect for her. I think Mr Westerholm speaks well of the position of the patient. It's just that I wonder how she is reasoning, because she mentions exactly what the patient law includes, including the right to second opinion, the right to good information and the right to participation in her own care. On the other hand, I do not hear how this law would be tightened up in order to have a greater impact. I think it sounds like Barbro Westerholm agrees with me in my argument that it is health care and the prerequisites for care that need to be changed through structural reforms in order for us to have better time in the patient meeting, more specialists in primary care and more IT solutions, because that is what is needed, and then we also need to have legislation that does not conflict with the Data Act. That's what's missing. It is not really the technology that is lacking to introduce these IT solutions, but it is legislation and standardisation of the conceptual apparatus in order for us to implement this. So in order to turn this ship around in Sandhamnsgatet, I wonder whether it is not in the healthcare structures that we would have to find arrangements to make changes to make this a reality by putting the patient in focus and making the patient's position stronger?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-621	Mr President, I would like to After all, we in Sweden have moved to framework legislation, from the detailed legislation we had until the 70s, about. This makes it easier for a government to come up with regulations, regulations and what it is called and for the authorities to come up with guidelines. The Health Act would not really have had to be replaced by the Patient Act, because the Patient Act states the same thing with more words. The question then is whether this strengthening of the patient law must be very clear about the need for resources. There is a need for training and resources that county councils and municipalities must provide for this purpose. Here we have a problem with municipal self-determination. It sort of stops in this interface, and it must be made clear that this is something for which we have a responsibility. There must be time, there must be those who train, there must be follow-up and there must also be follow-up on how patients experience all of this. Communication is difficult. You can describe a dog in many different ways without showing pictures of the dog. When you compare the perceptions, it may be that a small dog has been equated with a large dog. I have pictures from lectures on how difficult communication can be. But this is what needs to be made clear. Anders W Jonsson was involved in patient mobility in Sweden, which also comes into the picture. But for me it is about patients and caregivers talking about the same thing and having understood the same thing. Sometimes it goes both ways, that the caregiver has not understood.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-626	Mr President, I would like to I do not really hear anything but what I can agree with and which fits in with my reasoning: that the conditions of care must be changed so that the staff can work in the way that they have actually entered into this professional role to do. You want to work with patients. You have a strong commitment. You want to develop your professionalism. But with the structures of health care today, this is not working, and that is why we do not get an impact on the Patient Act or the Health and Medical Act if we want to. I have not heard from Mr Westerholm how this could be translated into more stringent legislation. We cannot by law force the principals to reserve money and so on. It is about creating conditions in other ways, not least through the dissemination of knowledge. It is ultimately about what Barbro Westerholm ends up in, namely more privatisation and greater freedom of choice. Hand to heart, Barbro Westerholm! Old, fragile patients are forced to travel from Gävle to Sundsvall because the close care does not work in Gävle and because the staff are not given the opportunity to take care of patients with a need for composite care interventions to be given from the municipality and county councils. Should it really be on the old fragile patient to go to Sundsvall?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-629	Mr President, I would like to Liberals' vision of healthcare is that it should be interesting for caregivers to be in places where patients are located or to get to patients. I believe a lot that caregivers make home visits. There are different ways to communicate with the fragile patient. It is well 7 percent of those in the older generation of years who are fragile. Most of them do well on their own. The 7% could be reduced by more effective prevention. There must be interest on the part of health care providers to establish themselves where the patients are. Today there are fences. Let's look at the patient law. It is there that the responsibility of the principals for the existence of resources can be expressed more clearly. I realise that there will then be a discussion between the Government Office and the SKL about what money is being sent with. I believe that this can be more clearly defined in the legislation. But then we distance ourselves from the idea of framework laws, which I considered to be positive. It now turns out that framework law is not enough.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-632	Mr President, I would like to Let's look at what has happened in healthcare, Barbro Westerholm, with the different care choices and so on. Care analysis has written that what is striking in healthcare is that those with the greatest need are furthest away from care. Those with addiction problems, mental ill health, those who are multisick, those who have cancer, come the farthest away in the gender. They'd need the care first. Then I begin to think about how the health choices and freedom of establishment have worked in the county council where Barbro Westerholm and I live and work. It is preferable to establish itself in areas where people already have good health. These issues are about political governance. It does not teem with large health centers that can embrace more. A good example is the publicly operated Gustavsberg health centre. For example, there are many psychologists. There has also been a psychiatrist. The mental illness is ticking. Many other health centres in Stockholm and elsewhere are small. I believe that the freedom of establishment and the possibility for healthcare operators to place themselves a little anywhere would need governance. The problem is that there will not be a variety of health centres, but it will be a little Sami-same. How are we going to develop health centres in, for example, the extremities and other places that are more specialized for elderly people with great needs? How are we gonna get there? I do not believe that the choice of care and the right of establishment is the right way.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-636	Mr President, I would like to We have different visions based on the knowledge we have. I look forward to both small and large health centres in view of the needs that exist and the care providers. There was a hearing in the Riksdag where eight doctors from a health centre from the north participated. It was not income that drove these doctors, but it was satisfied patients. Look at Norway and the Netherlands, or look at the dental clinics. The development of dental care in Sweden has been completely different. Half the dentists have private clinics. They want satisfied patients. They also specialize. Gustavsberg is the example of satisfied patients, and the staff enjoy working there. Then more people are eager to do the same form of establishment. I believe very much in highlighting the good examples. How did they do it? The same is true of nursing homes. They do not incur higher costs than the other retirement homes, but they have different ways of working and other management. They are also investing more in continuing training. I want to show you the good examples and work with carrots instead of detailed regulation and whip.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-642	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that many county councils, specifically Stockholm, also Västra Götaland and Skåne, lose these issues along the way. Politicians think only that they will free a number of private actors. I have nothing against freedom of choice. That's very good. But it is a major failure, specifically in this region, with bourgeois rule for eleven years, that there have not been a few different care centres with specialization. Instead, it has become health centers that look about the same. In Västra Götaland it is a better spread. I believe that somewhere political responsibility must be taken for the type of activity to be carried out. The actors themselves will not do that. When it comes to the issue of profits in welfare, when you open this doctor's office you also want to casha home some profit. Then it is up to politicians to rule and ask a little when it comes to freedom of establishment. Then there would be a different range of health centres and primary care. No one has had any thought of opening geriatric health clinics either. Now this issue has been raised in a good way in Göran Stiernstedt's investigation. I believe in it a lot. Stockholm has had good economics, but they no longer have it because of Karolinska Hospital. It has not been possible for eleven years to find a system for the establishment of better health centres. This shows that freedom of establishment does not work. Here there must be some kind of political control system that states that a reception should be opened in Tensta instead of in Äppelviken.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-648	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you have to look in the rear-view mirror. The mirror for primary care in Sweden was general medicine. The doctor could do anything. This remains in Stockholm and in many other places. This afternoon we clubs a decision that specialists should go out into primary care. That's exactly what I understand Karin Rågsjö is after. She wants to get drug specialists out and so on in primary care. When that signal goes out this afternoon to interested doctors and nurses in these different areas, I am convinced that development will move in that direction. There is also patient pressure. Patient organizations – rheumatists, in psychiatry and so on – will push for this to become a reality. I should be able to go to my health centre; I should not have to make an appointment at the large hospital. When it comes to the image of Stockholm, it sounds like this is a big problem. But look at Stockholm's numbers! We can do this with visits to the health centre in five days while in other county councils it is seven. There are a number of figures that give a different picture of Stockholm County Council than what is portrayed. Sure, there's trouble here. Let's not turn a blind eye to that. But I think the picture of Stockholm County Council is distorted. We have taken note of the figures for waiting times and so on. The compensations have also been changed so that the buds do not control.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-653	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the tax committee's report 21 Data at individual level in the employers' declaration. In bill 2016/ 17:58, the Government proposes that data on the compensation paid for labour and tax deductions at individual level, i.e. per payee, should be provided to the Swedish Tax Agency on an ongoing basis. The data shall normally be provided monthly in an employer's declaration instead of annually in a control task, which is the practice today. The reason is to ensure that the correct data is submitted and thus to reduce tax evasion and tax evasion. The fact that the Swedish Tax Agency is given increased opportunities to check the accuracy of the data submitted is fundamentally good. It is important to reduce both tax evasion and tax evasion. It is also important to check the accuracy of the data submitted. These changes strengthen the legitimacy of the tax system. This leads to increased tax revenues and fairer competition. Last but not least, it increases the transparency of the taxes we pay. The Center Party has also proposed a system of monthly reporting at individual level, including in the framework of the parliamentary social security inquiry. However, it is essential that such a system is designed in a way that simplifies, does not make it difficult, for companies to report to the relevant authority. There must be an opportunity for all companies to manage monthly reporting effectively. A prerequisite for this is that data submission can be done by means of a simple and educational e-service. Examples from other countries, including Denmark, show that this kind of development work is time-consuming and complex. The Government proposes that monthly reporting be made from 1 July 2018 or 1 January 2019. At the same time, it is written in the bill that a tax authority's objective is that such an alternative is to be made available – i.e. electronic data submission directly from the debtor's salary system – in 2019. There is therefore a risk that companies will be required to start reporting data to the Swedish Tax Agency before a data submission system is fully developed. For the Swedish Tax Agency, the proposal will result in increased costs for, among other things, the development of IT systems, IT management, the handling and auditing of declarations, the production of information material and other information activities, and the training of staff. But it will be necessary to make these changes to the systems applied by the Tax Agency. Mr President, I would like to Estimates of time spent and the increased number of occasions per year that data per payee should be provided to the Tax Agency are particularly difficult to make. In view of these factors, the Government considers it appropriate to adjust the estimated cost of the Tax Agency with an uncertainty factor of 1, 5. The Government estimates that the annual administrative costs of the proposals will in any case initially increase by approximately SEK 67 million. Today, 20%, in the order of 80 000 companies, submit control data via paper. For these approximately 80 000 companies, there is a high risk that the government's proposal will unduly affect the administrative burden. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government chooses to implement a system of monthly reporting before satisfying reasonable conditions to handle monthly reporting. When introducing a monthly reporting system at individual level, it is essential that it is implemented in a way that provides a smooth and simple data submission for companies. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to express my support for the Centre Party reservation, which has been backed up by the Liberals.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-665	Mr President, I would like to The main objective of this proposal is to reduce tax evasion and unfair competition by providing employers with monthly reporting of employees' wages and taxes. Today this is done in the control task once a year. Transparency and legitimacy of the staff member is also an important aspect when the monthly data come into force. It is therefore remarkable that the government parties reject our proposal to make the amount of the social security contribution visible on the pay slips. The regulatory changes should also include the obligation to account for the amount of the employer's contribution per employee in the employer's declaration. I therefore ask for reservation 2, i.e. the amount of the social security contribution to be shown for each payee. The Swedish Tax Agency is proposed to be able to take measures to make available the information collected to certain other authorities such as Försäkringskassan and the unemployment funds. It may only be for certain purposes. Anyone who exploits our systems of cheating and abuse takes the right to live at the expense of others. That can never be accepted. Not to pay taxes that you should or receive grants that you are not entitled to is to use the system we have built together and also to care for together. It is essential to create legitimacy for the tax system. The Tax Procedure Act includes provisions on the obligation to provide control data and tax returns and to keep a so-called human resources register in certain sectors. The Government proposes certain amendments to the Tax Procedure Act. For example, it is proposed that employers should continuously provide information to the Swedish Tax Agency about compensation for which tax deductions are to be made and the amount of the tax deduction at individual level. Mr President, I would like to The data shall normally be provided monthly in an employer's declaration instead of annually in the control data. It is also proposed that the employer who is required to provide such information on a given payee in an employer's declaration should inform the person to whom the information relates about the same each calendar month. However, the proposal is not to provide information on the amount of the social security contribution at individual level. As monthly reporting will increase the administrative costs of businesses, it is important that it is used as efficiently as possible. Reporting should therefore be designed in a way that allows for use, and to reduce subsidy fraud and increase transparency. The employer will not be required to present at the same time the total amount, i.e. for all payees, at the same time. The current administrative obligation will therefore be abolished. Thus, once a month, it will not be necessary to provide the total total amount for all employees, for example, in a company. It is also of the utmost importance that the system, not least the way in which the data are provided to the Swedish Tax Agency, should be designed in such a way as to minimise the administrative burden on companies. This must be the guiding principle all the time. The government should therefore follow the implementation closely and, if necessary, promptly return with proposals to mitigate the negative effects on the smallest companies. The government's calculations of both administrative costs and public financial revenues are very uncertain, as the Government's proposal also shows. They have also been questioned by a number of consultation bodies. In order to strengthen the ability of Swedish companies to grow and employ, it is important that measures that increase the costs of companies are usually compensated by cost-reducing reforms. Here you have to be able to balance. What will be a cost to businesses must in some way be compensated at the other end. Any revenue increases resulting from the proposal should therefore be used to a large extent to strengthen the ability of Swedish companies to grow and employ. Mr President, I would like to High confidence in the tax system is essential if taxes are to finance our common welfare. Strengthening the legitimacy of the rules requires measures to combat tax evasion and evasion. It becomes insufficient when jobs, workers and businesses are more mobile than before; we have a completely new labour market. It is therefore good that it is now proposed to provide data on a monthly basis. It is important that not only control authorities but also private individuals are given access to information that concerns themselves – transparency in all situations. However, the proposed amendments are insufficient. The employee needs and has the right to be informed of the total cost to the employee of the employer. Sweden also has a very high employer's contribution, compared to the OECD average, for example. Visibility and transparency are important concepts for creating legitimacy for the tax system and have an important democratic aspect. At a stage where changes, as in this proposal, are made, the regulatory changes should therefore include what is included in our reservation, i.e. transparency for the employee. The Swedish Parliament should therefore announce to the Government that it is urgent to submit additional proposals for amendment to the Tax Procedure Act that the employer's declaration for each payee should also include an indication of the amount of the employer's contribution. Mr President, I would like to The process of arriving at the proposal we have in hand today began in 2009, when the Alliance Government set up a special investigation to investigate the possibility of introducing so-called monthly tasks. It was submitted in 2011 in the Monthly Report – quickly and easily. We can compare with our Nordic neighbours. In Denmark, a similar system was introduced already in 2008, and in Norway it was introduced in 2015. In its report, the social security inquiry also suggested that e-income should be introduced in order to create predictability for the insured and to improve the efficiency of the authorities' handling of cases based on income data at individual level. The social security inquiry also found that there was a discrepancy between monthly data provided by the employer in the employer's declaration and data provided annually at individual level in the control data. That's where you come from. This is going to be more legal. With monthly data at individual level, the burden will be considerably reduced for employers who will sit and figure out, for example, the basis for unemployment funds. I believe that monthly data will be much better than the system we have today. There will be greater transparency for the individual. But with our reservation, it would be even better for the individual to see and understand how much the employer pays for his employee.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-684	Mr President, I would like to The first time I get the chance to enter the speaker's chair in this fantastic hall I get the opportunity to talk about something I really have experience of. As a self-employed person for almost 30 years, I have completed my tax data every month. Likewise, I have faithfully completed my control tasks at the end of each year. 28 years ago I did it using sheets of paper, calculators and a considerable amount of coffee. A few years ago, the digital tools began to make the work more bearable. Because it's not the administration that makes me a good sommelier- believe me! It is not the control tasks that give me the desire to develop new sausage recipes for wild goose or to inspire better food in elderly care – believe me! The purpose of the change is good. Reducing the presence of both conscious and unconscious false tax data promotes fair competition and a level playing field. However, the proposal also shows that there are currently insufficient digital tools to facilitate the individual entrepreneur. The administration must always be as simple as possible for small businesses. They're the ones that make the wheels spin. It must be our task, we who sit in this room, to simplify and improve. The regulatory change will also affect associations and organisations, which in many cases run large parts of their activities through voluntary forces, and electronic accounting services are perhaps the least developed here. Extra work for small entrepreneurs must ultimately have a greater impact than the outcome of this proposal. The administrative burden and regulatory burden will be high before technology has caught up with policy. Therefore, the Liberals say no to monthly reporting of salaries at individual level. The aim of the proposal is not bad. But our authorities haven't had time to do their homework. Small entrepreneurs and associations are expected to fill in where the Swedish Government is failing. It is a work that will cost, both money and time. It is time that can be used to create growth and generate jobs. It should be easy and easy to do the right thing, even for the entrepreneurs in Sweden. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-690	Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes that companies should not submit an employer's tax return for the company as a whole, but that this should be done on an individual basis on a monthly basis. It's a pretty big change for all of our companies. One might wonder whether this will increase the administrative burden on businesses. Of course it will! The government should therefore closely monitor implementation and, if necessary, return promptly with proposals to mitigate adverse effects on the smallest enterprises. Administrative costs are burdensome for small businesses, and we should not create rules that add to the burden. The government's calculation of the increased administrative costs is questionable, as many do. So do I. If this leads to an excessive burden, we should be able to make changes. Increased pressure on companies is hitting jobs and welfare. It is companies that pay for our welfare. We must make it easier for them as much as possible. We're making it harder and harder to run a business. The hard-working entrepreneur who wants to bring everyday life together sees the pile of needs growing and the costs of running businesses slowly but surely increasing, due to political decisions. Some changes are necessary. However, we should take more account of the administrative costs for businesses. These are costs that are constantly increasing, in order to satisfy our need for control, follow-up and to get the tax that we believe it should be. Is this change necessary in view of the purpose stated for the change? The main aim is to reduce tax evasion and tax evasion. My view is that this will only help marginally, based on how the system works today. The vast majority who want to avoid tax on their work will not enter it, either on a report submitted annually or on a monthly basis. We also have a preference in politics for creating rules that squeeze the percentage that tries to get away but which affects the large number of people who are actually trying to do the right thing. Consequences should be seen in the light of the whole of companies and not in the light of who they want to access. In that light, I believe that this is an ineffective way of getting to grips with this. However, we Christian Democrats can see that this should open the door to other changes that are actually desirable, that is to say, to report the tax burden to the company on the pay slips to the employees. There will be two purposes. It will have the employee informed of the full cost of having an employee, while at the same time assessing the total tax paid against what is actually received in his own pay envelope. It will also be clearer and easier to discuss the tax burden on employees and on individuals when everyone has the same image. Do we have too much tax pressure on labour in Sweden today? Yes, my firm opinion is that this is the case. With a tax relief, I think we can create more jobs. Companies can then hire one more and strengthen welfare in this way. This is, in itself, a different discussion from the one we are having here today. But I think you have to see the overall picture in some way. And at some point we have to pull the handbrake and not increase the administrative costs for businesses all the time to satisfy our own needs. Our own need is always control, follow-up and getting the tax that we think we should have. Therefore, we suggest that the Riksdag should make it known to the Government that it should urgently submit additional proposals for amendment to the Tax Procedure Act that the employer's declaration for each payee should also include details of the amount of the employer's contribution. This therefore serves another purpose. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-WWqPMaYdje4NC9ghP4BDbH	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal contained in the report and reject the motions and, therefore, the reservations. Mr President, I would like to A welfare society creates freedom. One day in our community begins at a preschool in Trelleborg, where the little boy or girl comes with his parents. One day, a kid rides to elementary school in Hallsberg. One day begins with curious gymnasists at the Space Upper Secondary School in Kiruna. One day begins with an elderly person receiving home help or staying in a retirement home. It is the joint activity that creates freedom for many people. Equally important are the social insurance policies that we jointly own. If each one were to pay for them out of his own wallet, a few and others would be missing. A welfare society is fundamentally based on equal value for all people, and the goal is equal living conditions. Mr President, I would like to The construction of a welfare society needs strong mortar. It's taken from solidarity. Solidarity means that we are more important than I am – basically that we benefit according to needs and contribute according to sustainability. Solidarity is practically borne by the tax system. Mr President, I would like to For the will to contribute to the common will to remain, two things must be fulfilled. First of all, it is a question of welfare being there when we need it. Secondly, it is a question of knowing that everyone is involved in paying solidarity. Mr President, I would like to Tax fraud, fiffles and quills are serious. It is a source of solidarity. It is a question of tax havens and large companies which are battling their profits between the countries. However, it is also about what is perceived as less, about people who are tampering with things in an unjust way. Tax evasion is now estimated to cost us 133 billion in the right old age. In the study that Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén presented last week about subsidy fraud, it is about billions of dollars and direct leagues that shamelessly slip on the common and actually steal money from the needy, among other disabled people. Mr President, I would like to In April 2016, the Social Democratic led government presented a programme – ten measures to combat tax evasion, tax evasion and money laundering. It was an important document. Today we are debating a report dealing with the proposal Data at individual level in the employers' declaration. It's a parliamentary prose. What it is about is that employers should provide monthly information to the Tax Agency about each employee, about benefits for work and tax deductions, and that other authorities – for example the Swedish Social Insurance Agency – should be able to have access to data to reduce cheating on the withdrawal of grants while working and, of course, for employers to do the right thing. This provides a significant opportunity to control and suppress cheating. From referrals, it appears that Almega, the Swedish Taxi Association, the Swedish Furniture Transport Association, the Frisörföretagarna, the Swedish Laundry Association and the Swedish Åkeri Company think that this will be a good order. They want to eliminate the unhealthy competition. They also want to eliminate the exploitation of those whom we call undocumented and which exist alongside the systems. There we are now introducing a better opportunity to control. I would also say that the proposed legislation makes a contribution to the fight against the terrible terrorism that has also landed in our country. Mr President, I would like to A little more bureaucracy is a little more bureaucracy. I would have liked to discuss this with Per Åsling, but I respect that he had another mission. But we will have to discuss this in another context. The costs of the proposed system are very small in relation to the benefits for society. This is because significant social benefits are being made. The fact that we are helping to prevent wage dumping, cheating and unfair competition that undermines the solidarity of society is extremely important. Mr President, I would like to This is not the step, but it is one of many steps to knock out cheating and unfair competition. One day it will be ours when we face the bright and warm sun of righteousness.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-716	Mr President, I would like to I thank Peter Persson for his ideological speech. I have a few questions. There is some uncertainty in this. How many additional administrative burdens will this provide for businesses? It is often the smaller companies, those who behave and who do what they should in the employers' declaration and so on, who get the charge. We want to get to those who cheat and who are not serious. I think it is important to follow this change in the Tax Procedure Act. How does the government intend to do that? It will not be introduced sharply, if you say so, until 2018. Digital systems need to be put in place first, and this will hopefully make it easier for businesses. This is my question: how will the government follow the changes in the Tax Procedure Act on the basis of the supposed increase in the administrative burden on smaller companies?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-720	Mr President, I would like to I respect what you're saying, Lotta Finstorp. Of course, when it comes to filling opportunities for fraud through controls and administrative measures, there is always an economic or practical burden. The study shows that the total administrative cost is estimated to increase by 66.6 million. Put this against the expected public financial impact of SEK 2 billion in income to society by preventing tax evasion! All in all, it is a significant profit. I am convinced that the government and the work responsible for the activities in its follow-up of ongoing activities will make sure to ring the bell if there is something that does not work and if there is something that needs to be adjusted. That is what we are doing with all the legislation in progress. I have faith in the IRS.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-722	Mr President, I would like to I think that we in this House are rather bad at having an evaluation date or similar in addition to different legislations or, as in this case, in a change in a law. Now it is not included in the proposal, but it is to be hoped that the authorities themselves will evaluate after perhaps two years. We have a reservation from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates that it should be visible what the employer's contribution looks like, what level it is at and so on. That's what you're calling for. My question is, why do you do it? Peter Persson mentioned an interesting connection that I had to make before and that I would like to have developed. It's about how monthly data can prevent terrorism.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-725	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry I started answering too quickly! I am also fertile from Skåne and hastily in the speech from time to time. The answer to the question is: the fact that there is responsibility for human resources and the system of monthly payments allows authorities to carry out checks in different activities to see who has stayed on the spot. Unfortunately, we know that there have been people who have worked alongside the economy, directly black, and acquired resources that have since been transformed. It is well known that this is the way it is. Preventing people from staying illegally and operating in our country is an urgent political mission. We must have control of those who are in different workplaces, that you are doing the right thing and that these are the nicest conditions. It's important. It is in the dark worlds alongside society that alternative and sometimes horrifying thoughts are being built up. With regard to the motion by the Moderates and Christian Democrats that we should make social security contributions visible, this is already common ground. Everyone can learn about the size of these fees, and they also vary and are adjusted from time to time. If we are to have as little administrative burdens as possible, we should not put on another layer. That is our position.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-729	Mr President, I would like to The Tax Committee's report on data at individual level in the employers' declaration is an important part of the work to eliminate opportunities to cheat with the tax authorities' accounts and thus evade tax and various fees. It is also part of the process of creating competition neutrality and removing rogue operators from the market. This is a work that is well in line with Swedish democratic policy. In order to understand the problem that causes this change in law, you need to know a little about how the handling of reporting of salary data and tax data to the Swedish Tax Agency is done today. When employers pay their employees wages, an obligation arises to pay the employee's provisional withholding tax and statutory social security contributions to the Tax Agency. Before taxes and contributions are paid, employers must also report how much gross salary, deducted tax and social security contributions the employer has handled each month. A number of other allowances and data may also exist. There are no data related to individual employees in the reporting. Only in January of the year following the payment of wages and salaries does the employer draw up a control report summarising each employee's gross salary, benefits and other benefits and deducted tax. On the basis of this information, the Tax Agency can calculate the amount to be paid in the form of social security contributions. The information can be provided on a paper form or by registering in an e-service on the Swedish Tax Agency's website. They can also be produced using a file in a payroll system, which is sent to the Swedish Tax Agency. Each employee must also receive a copy of the information directly linked to the person concerned and sent to the Swedish Tax Agency. This is today's work. Mr President, I would like to The method of providing aggregated data each month and personal control data in January of the following year have proved to be an opportunity to cheat with the submission of data and the payment of taxes and charges. The individual employee cannot check whether the employer has reported correct salary data and deducted tax to the Tax Agency until January of the following year. The Swedish Tax Agency cannot control the total reporting against the individual's net salaries, nor can it control the reported employer's contributions. This creates a vacuum that can be used for tax evasion. This shortcoming will mainly be remedied by changing the rules, which is the important thing about this legislative proposal. This does not mean, of course, that all possible fraud involving wages, taxes and social security contributions or special wage taxes are eliminated. However, it closes several major gaps in legislation, which is likely to make cheating in this area much more difficult. We think that's a good thing. Another aspect of the problem is that the increased risk of detection of fraud in taxes and charges means that employers who are honest and fair will have a better competitive position with those who cheat and thus have a lower cost. We therefore welcome this change, which we believe benefits both Sweden and Sweden's entrepreneurs well. Mr President, I would like to Part of the Alliance has agreed that employers' contributions are not mentioned in the bill's text on what should be presented individually on the employer's declarations. We share this criticism in substance, but we believe that this problem can be solved directly by employers, without legislation. The system is set up to make it easy for employers who provide the information to also print out the amount of the employer's contribution on the form sent to the individual employees. We believe that no legislation is needed to resolve this particular detail. Just start by presenting the current information on the employers' declarations or, if you like, on the pay slips. I believe that this issue falls to the social partners and individual employers. Many wage systems on the market already have this possibility. Instead of legislating that employers' contributions have to be recorded on, for example, pay slips, I would urge employers to get started and do so. I have done it myself for almost all the 25 years I have been an employer. The strange thing is that not everyone is doing it today. It is quite simple and costs almost nothing. We therefore share the view of the Moderates and Christian Democrats that there is a need to further increase transparency regarding, for example, employers' contributions but also regarding the other parts of the different fees and costs associated with different forms of employment. It is important that we build a strong culture of transparency in the tax system, with the aim of enabling everyone to understand what tax they pay and what these funds are used for. This is an important objective, which is at least partly stated in the government's budget document. From this point of view, it could very well be legislated that the employer's costs of social security contributions, special wage tax, pension provision, occupational pension, reimbursement of expenses and other similar tasks should be accounted for in a standardised manner. We would be happy to support that. However, it will be a bigger issue than simply printing out employers' contributions on pay slips or in employers' declarations. Here, unfortunately, the Moderates and Christian Democrats have lost many tasks that should be included in such an area if you take it all at once. Mr President, I would like to We think that the approach of the government proposal is fundamentally good. However, the proposal is not a comprehensive solution to the problem. For example, it will continue to be necessary for some employers to submit certain data in an annual control task in some cases. However, we have chosen to support the current proposal, albeit with some hesitation, for this very reason. It is undoubtedly better than with the current system, but it could be made even more sharp. The government should therefore propose a uniform system covering all information provided to the Tax Agency regarding salary, remuneration, pension, etc., which is tax- and contribution-based, so that the annual control data can be fully rationalised. An important basis for our position is that the proposal provides a good opportunity to access much of the fraud opportunities built into the current system. From that point of view, we do not want to contribute to delaying the issue. Mr President, I would like to We will follow closely the introduction of the new routine to see if expectations of the effects are met. We will also very likely come back with a supplementary proposal for a more thought-out overall solution, which will better address the overall problem of reporting. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-747	Mr President, I would like to The fight against the black economy is one of the crucial issues for us to strengthen security, level the conditions for growing up and break the segregation that exists in Sweden. The proposal we are considering today is precisely that. It also means that serious companies are favoured at the expense of misleading, which is more than essential. We are strengthening the white economy and taking a strong stand against the black economy. Too many people are growing up in vulnerable areas where there is insecurity. People live too crowded, unemployment is too widespread, there are too few positive models, and the school cannot compensate enough for these things. Over time, we have seen an increasing inequality between schools, and we have seen that the police have performed worse. Teachers and police are some of the real heroes of society, who do their utmost to improve society every day. The political responsibility lies in providing the right conditions, deciding on the right tools and laws, allocating sufficient funds and simply directing society in a healthy direction. Anyone growing up in Kroksbäck, Bergsjön or Vivalla should have the same opportunity to become the person you want to be as an adult, and to take advantage of the potential that you have, such as the one growing up in Vaxholm, Lomma or Kungsbacka. This requires political action at all levels. In the neighbourhood, it can be about physically building in a sustainable way – building barriers and providing space for playgrounds for children, for meeting places and for living environments. We need to invest and invest in areas that are lagging behind. At national level, it is a question of putting away the bones of organised crime. It is crucial for us to be able to reverse developments. This is a crime that takes many different forms. The same people who sell weapons, drugs, illegal alcohol, cigarettes and black apartment contracts also sell vulnerable people. The proposal we are considering today is that employers are required to report employers' contributions to the Swedish Tax Agency on a monthly basis rather than, as is the case today, on a yearly basis. It may seem that what I was just talking about is not connected with this, but it actually does. This enables authorities to quickly detect cheating or error. It's an important piece of the puzzle in the pursuit of the black economy. This is something that makes it difficult for rogue companies to have a different labour force, at a different salary than the one they actually have. In the past, reforms have taken place in the human rights system, which has also helped to improve the situation. So did the previous bourgeois government, for which one should have been crowned. Mr President, I would like to In fact, I was a little surprised, and somewhat disappointed, that the Liberals and the Center Party wish to reject this proposal. It shows that the issue of the black economy, with all its implications, is not taken seriously enough. There is a consensus between the parties in the Riksdag to strengthen the police and to allocate more money to it. It's a good thing– it's necessary– but only more money can't solve the situation. More authorities need to work together, and they must also be better placed to work together in the pursuit of black crime. This proposal is nothing unique to Sweden. In the bill you can read about what applies in Denmark and Norway, which has similar systems. It also shows that this is needed. It is important that we can work together on these kinds of issues, not least between the Nordic countries, as both rogue companies and criminals easily move across our borders. The public financial impact of the proposal is estimated by the Government at 2 billion a year. It is a more conservative estimate than the 2.9 billion previously estimated in the investigation. I think it is important to emphasise that this is a bigger problem than the fact that every tax chandelier does not come in. Although this is important, this difference – every penny in tax loss – represents an illegal advantage for those companies that are not doing well compared to those that actually do. We should agree in here that it should be exactly the opposite: it is those who do not behave who should be punished. Finally, Mr President, I noted that two parties – the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – said in their speeches that they are concerned about the increased administrative burden. I find it a little strange that they will then have a motion to increase this particular burden by proposing that additional information should be given to the workers. Today, there is nothing to prevent any employer from reporting this, but if we decide in here, we increase the burden that the Moderates and Christian Democrats say they do not want to increase. Mr President, I would like to I call for the proposal and the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-767	Mr President, I would like to Today, we will examine the Swedish National Audit Office's report on managing a complicated tax system. The opposition is good in opposition but was not so good in the majority. Why do I think that? Well, this revision is about seven years, five years of bourgeois rule and two years of S-MP government. Based on this seven-year audit, an announcement has been made that the government will return to the Riksdag. I think that is a good work of opposition. It creates a drama. The bad thing about the majority work, we all know in this House, is that in modern history bourgeois governments have three times out of three left disasters in the state budget with large deficits. They even borrowed for tax cuts. We have fought and gradually gone from deficit to surplus. We have also had to cover with provisions for the bourgeois government's affair with Vattenfall. Taxes have a natural role to play in getting the state's finances in order. What is meant, Mr President, by a complicated tax system? Well, the tax system is complicated by different specific rules, exemptions, deductions and tax deductions. The tax system, which was introduced in the early 1990s and is now 25 years old, has been enormously simplified. Since then, special rules have been laid down in the system according to specific rules. Our country now needs a new tax reform to make the tax system less complicated. One might also wonder why we have a complicated tax system. It is, of course, the state's way of trying to create fair taxes and limiting the possibility of moving one income to another income category in order to get reduced tax. Another reason, of course, as Peter Persson mentioned, is tax evasion and tax evasion, which unfortunately is now also organised by the financial world and tax consultants. We have all seen in the media about this with Panama Leaks and Lux Leaks, where tax havens were used for advanced tax evasion schemes. Unfortunately, there are famous people in Sweden and banks who have been involved in this. These are the reasons for having a complicated tax system. The debate must, of course, address both aspects, regulatory simplification versus control needs. I believe that the state has succeeded in the taxation of individuals. It is easy to declare today with pre-filled data in the declaration, and digital services can be used. It is not as far as corporate taxation is concerned. That's because it's much more complicated. In the work of the Corporate Tax Committee, it turned out that something that suited one industry meant deterioration in another sector, so it is much more difficult to design such systems. Mr President, I would like to The majority of the Swedish National Audit Office's report is about the work of the Swedish Tax Agency. The Government is following the Swedish Tax Agency's work in the government dialogue and is discussing the increased use of digital services to make it easier for companies to fulfil their obligations as a company in our country. As I said, it is extremely important to develop the Swedish Tax Agency's digital services. The Swedish National Audit Office's report covers the period 2009– 2015, five years of bourgeois rule and two years of S-MP rule. During this time, there have been 203 tax changes and 40 EU harmonisations, which may be regulatory simplifications, because it may be companies that work across borders. In this way, European harmonisation for some can become a regulatory simplification. During these years there have been 27 regulatory simplifications and 16 partial simplifications. In principle, 20% of all tax changes have been simplifications. After having gone through year by year, I can see that in 2015, with a central government, the proportion of regulatory simplifications was 25 per cent, and in 2012, with bourgeois government, the proportion of regulatory simplifications was 10 per cent. That a competitive and dynamic business sector is the basis for jobs in Sweden can surely many parties in this House sign on. Then it must be good conditions for companies across the country to work, and the regulations must be properly designed. This is where the administrative systems are central. We share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the work on simplifications, such as providing better information, finding smoother ways of providing data and changing difficult-to-understand rules, maintains confidence in the tax system. We Social Democrats assume that the government strives to draw up rules that are easier to apply for companies, and the government works for this in relation to the Swedish Tax Agency. The Government has appointed an investigator to review the VAT Act. In addition, work is under way to develop revised rules on interest deduction restrictions based on the alternative proposals of the Business Tax Committee. Against this background, we do not see it as necessary for the Riksdag to announce to the Government the need for further measures to speed up work on regulatory simplification for companies. The claim that the government would choose higher taxes than the employment effect is unfounded and unserious. After all, this term of office is that 200 000 more people can go to work. Youth unemployment is record low, the lowest in 13 years. Employment is the highest in the EU. So it is an unserious argument. Of course, we will not settle down but will continue to push employment issues, despite the fine statistics, because it is extremely important to get more people into employment in order to have more resources for the public sector and be able to do what Peter Persson described as the core of the public sector. To conclude, Mr President, we propose that the Parliament add the letter to the file. We reject the motion for a resolution and call for the reservation to be approved.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-787	Mr President, I would like to When I meet young people who are curious about politics and we talk about how it works in Parliament, I usually say that anyone who becomes a Member of Parliament will try to end up in the tax committee. We deal with issues in many different areas, and that is often very ideological. But there is also a technical aspect. These are often complicated issues, and they are details that should be right and correct. Our tax system is not entirely straightforward. On the contrary, it is sometimes both delicate and complex. There is a balance between what is simple and easy to understand and what is optimal and can counteract behaviour that we do not want to see. Our task is to balance things, to find a balance between the simple and the optimal. In theory, it is easy to advocate a simple tax model. The last time we did a major tax reform, in the early 1990s, it was also a fundamental thought. Then there have been hundreds of departures from it, for a long time and by various governments. Exemptions, deductions and additions have been introduced and VAT rates have been reduced and increased. This has never been done with the idea of making things more difficult. The idea has always been to improve. Sometimes it's about controlling behavior. Sometimes they have wanted to promote the emergence of new businesses and jobs. Sometimes it has been done for environmental reasons. Sometimes the aim has been to make serious organised crime more difficult. Sometimes it has been about promoting equality. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Tax Agency's management has during the past year been in windstorm, and the Swedish Tax Agency has therefore been given a clear mandate by the Government to strengthen its confidence. The importance of the Swedish Tax Agency enjoying great confidence cannot be stressed enough. It is one of our most central authorities when you take in the tax money that we have decided to take in to pay for the welfare. It should also be said that the Swedish Tax Agency has been at the forefront of customer service, not least digitally. And those who call in for advice and help generally receive professional treatment. Since the regulations are complicated, it is even more important that the Swedish Tax Agency works well. Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-795	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's report Managing a complicated tax system is a stinging criticism of the government's too passive regulatory simplification work. The government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's observations is surprisingly thin. It is clear that the government's regulatory simplification work for entrepreneurship is low-priority, as the changes proposed are often of limited scope. I therefore support the committee's proposal because it is clear that the government's actions so far are insufficient to meet the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government to do more to speed up the simplification work. Labour market and industrial policy must go hand in hand. It is not good enough to talk hotly about employment issues and at the same time allow companies to crouch under administrative burdens and anti-growth taxes. Since SMEs create four out of five jobs in Sweden, policies must facilitate their growth and employment. But the proposals announced by the government, such as the 3:12 rules, become counterproductive for a country that so badly needs more jobs. In 2008, the Alliance Government established the Rule Council. This was done as part of the work on regulatory simplification for companies. An examination of such a third party has proved to be a successful model in both Sweden and other countries. During the time of the alliance government, administrative costs for companies also decreased by SEK 7 billion, and nearly 600 simplification proposals were implemented. One of the Regulatory Council's tasks is to give an opinion on the quality of the impact assessments contained in the Government's proposals and letters, which have a major impact on companies. There is another problem here because impact assessments are not often poor. More ambitious regulatory simplification would make it easier for SMEs, in particular, which do not have the same resources to deal with a complex tax administration as large companies. The Swedish National Audit Office is clear in its letter that simplification work is taking place at too low a pace. Mr President, I would like to In December 2016, the Business Board conducted a Skop survey on companies' views on regulatory improvement. It shows, among other things, that the confidence of companies in the government's regulatory work is very weak. The study also shows that if different regulations concerning the activities of companies were to significantly reduce costs and risks, almost every two, 44 per cent of the companies surveyed would probably increase sales as well as the number of employees. The slow regulatory simplification process is one of many growth-repressive measures in our elongated country. When I meet administrators at Arbetsförmedlingen, they always raise the problem of regulatory issues for both companies and job seekers. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the proportion of simplification proposals is low and that simplification proposals often take place to a limited extent. In addition, impact assessments are often rejected by the Rule Council. The report also shows that conflicts between objectives seem to hinder simplification. What this conflict of objectives consists of can only be answered by the government parties. Eight out of ten of Sweden's entrepreneurs say that they fail the government's work on regulatory simplification. One in three says that only the last year has become more complicated due to government rules. 2 percent think it has become easier. Mr President, I would like to A balance must always be struck between what rules are needed and what can be a burden on businesses. As business-related proposals may come from different ministries, the impact assessment must be carried out in a cross-sectoral manner. The government receives a lot of criticism for the lack of impact assessments. Bridges must be bridged between departments so that proposals do not become counterproductive for companies. The Industry Board has many excellent proposals for a better regulatory system. One of these is that governments and authorities should continuously evaluate the effectiveness of legislation and the impact of the whole regulatory complex. It is simply a question of ex post evaluation of the effects of different rules. Today, this is happening more or less ad hoc. This was also the subject of the previous debate. When we present a legislative proposal and take decisions, we should perhaps think more often about having an evaluation clause in the proposal as well. I am thinking, for example, of the Cash Register Act in force for us in the Tax Committee and the revision of it which the Alliance believes must be carried out. In the Entrepreneur newspaper I read an in tervju with an entrepreneur with 26 employees. He notes that, despite the government's promises to reduce it, the regulatory burden continues to increase. This means that companies are forced to spend even more resources on administration rather than on growth and strengthening competitiveness. He says: It is almost impossible to keep up with the rule. It just hangs up all the time. Moreover, there are rules that have nothing to do with production or efficiency, but which still take an enormous amount of time and energy. Reading and engaging in all new and amended regulations is a full - time occupation, he points out, given the number of them. Instead, the company hires consultants to provide information on what needs to be done to avoid fines at the next inspection. So this company does not want to make mistakes, and it must be easy to do the right thing. Let me mention some of the proposals and changes that increase the regulatory burden. A variety of measures to get more people into the labour market make it difficult for employers to keep track of what is available and when it suits them. In addition, the constant changes in employers' contributions make it difficult," says many entrepreneurs. From 2017 onwards, rules are introduced for Swedish companies to draw up an annual sustainability report. The new rules are estimated to cover around 2 000 companies. If, instead, the EU directive had been adopted, around 100 companies would have been included. It is the government's responsibility to put it on many more companies and to extend the rules further. The annual salary surveys, which the Alliance government removed, are back. Written reports are now required for companies with at least ten employees. The government is likely to come forward with a new proposal regarding the 3:12 rules. We get a complicated chemical tax that entrepreneurs who handle certain products have to understand. Mr President, I would like to More Swedish companies will do energy mapping because Sweden has chosen a definition that makes it more complicated for companies to determine whether they are subject to new requirements to map energy use. In addition, more companies are included than required by the EU Directive, as the size of the company counts at global level. Therefore, SMEs with a large parent company in other countries can also be included. This is another charge of which you, who represent the government parties, are certainly aware of. Mr President, I would like to This was just a sample of the new or proposed changes that require increased administration by companies. There is, of course, a risk that innovative people will choose to refrain from setting up a business because the regulatory burden has become an obstacle. Surveys by EY and Novus show that attitudes towards entrepreneurship are alarming. In a report from 2017, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise does not aim for individual rules, but makes a proposal with twelve recommendations: For each new rule for companies that come in, one should be out – i.e. a kind of feng shui model. This sounds very interesting, and it is something you should look at further. There is much to be said about the regulatory issue for entrepreneurs, and this is always met when you are out on study visits and when you meet entrepreneurs in other contexts. Since the Swedish National Audit Office's report so clearly shows that the government must speed up the simplification of the rules, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-828	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp often talks about evaluating the Government's proposals. If you evaluate Lotta Finstorp's speech, you can note that she said that the previous government made 600 regulatory simplifications. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report, however, we see that during its years the bourgeois government made 19 regulatory simplifications – not 600 – regarding the issue we are now debating. It is quite clear that the government is working on regulatory simplifications, but the opposition wants more. I think today's debate is really topical. One of the news headlines today was................................................................................................................................................................................ You think it's about a movie, but it doesn't. Instead, it is about money that Swedish pension savers have put into a PPM fund. Of course, rules and controls are needed in every way. You made zero regulatory simplifications in 2010 and cannot claim that you pushed the issue then. You say, however, that you are doing it now. I want to know what kind of regulatory simplifications you're running now compared to when you were in government. Do the Moderates want more people through the banks to hide money in tax havens?
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-832	Mr President, I would like to The last question was difficult to understand. I didn't quite get what was said. Would the Moderates want the banks to hide money? It's not about that. We have received a report from the Swedish National Audit Office where stinging criticisms are presented to the current government. At some point in this House, you must understand that you are no longer in opposition. It is you who have responsibility and who receive criticism. What is most alarming in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is the government's response. We should debate this. The answer doesn't say anything. My concern relates to what the committee says and which we support: far more pressure needs to be put on the issues. The big question is about the attitude towards entrepreneurship and why you give so little priority to the issues. This is remarkable. We have great challenges in the labour market with many who have come to Sweden and who have to enter the labour market and get their first job. You're making it harder for companies to hire. The attitude you have in all contexts is very worrying. It is not about the banks putting away money, as Jörgen Hellman says, but about four out of five jobs being created in smaller companies, and it is these that get the burden. It should, of course, be orderly, as we raised in a previous debate. For example, we introduced human resources. For many, this is surely seen as a burden, but many others rejoice that they came in. Of course it has to be orderly. However, I mentioned some examples of gold plating. Sweden and the government always want significantly stricter requirements for companies, want more companies to be covered and want more prevention rules. All of this causes me to be concerned about the government's entrepreneurial policy.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-838	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have sat in the corner when it comes to making regulatory simplifications. Simplification opens up tax evasion. This is the reverse of removing rules. Where do you set the limit for the rules? What measures do you think are reasonable if you are to work against tax evasion and undeclared work? Is there a problem with staff officials, unannounced inspection visits and certified cash registers? Is there order in the taxi business with emptying centres and so on to this? Now that you say that you do not stand for the policy that you stood for when you were in the majority of government and want simpler rules, I wonder what things you would like to remove.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-841	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. What Jörgen Hellman says is incredibly important. First of all, I would like to comment on what he said about regulatory simplification leading to undeclared work. If you have the attitude that undeclared work immediately occurs as soon as you make it easier for companies, you should of course not do anything but be passive. Then it's time to sit still in the boat. But I guess there's no one to say that. Look at the proposal of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise! When making a new rule for companies, you should also make sure to remove another one. That would be excellent. Let me take an example that I did not have time to mention in the speaker's chair earlier. It concerns the proposal concerning amendments to the Annual Accounts Act. It will affect more companies than necessary. The requirement to draw up a report on payments to public authorities now covers several thousand more companies. It is the definition of what is meant by larger companies that leads to this. Sweden has broadened the definition and goes beyond the EU. The government certainly has a thought of doing a gold-plating in this way. It would be interesting to hear about that idea. But this is almost the way it is with everything. This is exactly what makes the difference to when the Alliance ruled. We see this in almost all the new rules; you always want to be the best, the best, the best in the class. At the same time, however, you will remove the bones for entrepreneurship in Sweden.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-846	Mr President, I would like to There has already been some debate in this House today about the conditions for companies. This was done both in the previous debate with the Committee on Taxation and in today's very first debate on regional growth policy. This debate showed that the Swedish Democrats prioritise the conditions of small businesses, as I myself and many other Swedish democrats have pointed out earlier from the pulpit. During our time in Parliament, we have put forward a number of proposals aimed at promoting the survival and growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it is not just a question of tax rates and rates, but also of the ability of companies to act in their respective areas and to carry out their activities without being overly burdened by complicated rules. The IRS has a slogan – I don't know if it's official or unofficial – and it's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. For small companies that lack the administrative capacity of larger companies, it can sometimes be very difficult and cumbersome to do the right thing. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in its report Managing a complex tax system – The work to simplify for companies that the Swedish tax system today in many ways is complicated. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the simplification work is slow and that it should be given higher priority. Many small businesses, especially those who have a few years on their back, bear witness to the fact that for a long time they have experienced it as very burdensome to deal with the administrative burden and to get involved in complicated regulations. They are judged in their actions by officials who sometimes lack experience in entrepreneurship and the difficult conditions under which entrepreneurs sometimes operate. Both companies and jobs are in danger of ceasing to exist or never ever being created in this respect. In the preparation of this matter, the Swedish Democrats have chosen to support the motion advocating that the Government should follow the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to intensify work on regulatory simplifications for companies and return to the Riksdag with a detailed account of these. I therefore support the proposal in the report of the Committee on Taxation.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-851	Mr President, I would like to It is a rather interesting debate. When I was preparing for the debate, I wondered whether one could be against regulatory simplification. The debate has shown that one can be against it a little bit, and what has happened over the years well shows that we are not so good at regulatory simplifications as politicians. Jörgen Hellman from the Social Democrats thinks the opposition is good at being in opposition. It is in some way a credit for which we are grateful, but I believe that we have a common responsibility to make it as simple as possible for companies, regardless of whether they are in a government position or whether they are in opposition. I think that both David Lång from the Swedish Democrats and Lotta Finstorp from the Moderates put it quite well: It should be easy to do the right thing. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. As an entrepreneur, you have a thicket forest to try to get through to do the right thing. I sat this morning at a seminar on the 3:12 rules and the new changes that the government has sent out for a referral. One can say there that simplifications shine with their absence. Then there may be improvements in this, but there are no simplifications. We must realise that there are an enormous number of rules, laws and regulations that companies should relate to and that any simplification that can be made helps them. I am very pleased that the Swedish Parliament is supposed to support what the committee says about the fact that the government should take further steps to speed up the simplification work for companies in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and return to the Riksdag with a detailed account of these and announce this to the Government. We're not very good at regulatory simplifications in Parliament. We need to help each other, and I think that both the government and the opposition need to do this. I cannot see that we need to have different views on this, but this debate shows that. I have also been thinking about what an announcement really means to our government. How much does an announcement in which the Riksdag speaks of what it believes the government should do? On some issues, we can see that it means nothing at all. On a matter of representative responsibility, the government received an announcement in April 2015, which we all know about. It can be said that nothing has happened in this area in the Government Office. I cannot understand why we can simply ignore what Parliament says in this way. We can see that it was the same on the noise issue of housing. The Government ignored the announcement of the Riksdag. When you had to do something during the gallows, you did it, but not before. Then you can ask yourself: If the Riksdag now speaks of working according to what the National Audit Office says, can it be a long bench of it at the Government Office? Yeah, that's probably the way it could be. Of course, we may feel that this is a priority. But it is a question to ask those who are representatives of the government today: Is it a priority for the government parties to take on board what is in the report and deal with it according to what the Riksdag says? Since the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party only propose to add the letter to the file, the answer is no. It is not a priority for the government today to make regulatory simplifications. It'll be a long bench. Hopefully, next year after the elections, we will have a new government that sees the benefits of a simpler and more legitimate tax system. The legitimacy of the tax system is a basis for us to maintain the tax morality that prevails in Sweden. I would say that we have a fairly high tax standard in Sweden. We want to do the right thing. We want to pay in the tax that we are entitled to pay. Of course, there are some who use the system, and we're going to find ways to squeeze them. But we must also dare to simplify the rules for the ordinary entrepreneur. I cannot believe that we have different opinions in this part. I think that everyone could have had the same opinion, and I cannot understand why we need an announcement in order to be able to express this. I am in favour of the committee's proposal and look forward to the regulatory simplifications that are coming.
i-46b2c0c6e75acda0-861	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp and Larry Söder have very well developed the position of the Alliance on this very important issue. Sweden's well-being is largely due to a strong and competitive business sector that can cope with growing international competition. Sweden has among the world's highest taxes, and companies have extensive regulations and bureaucracy around them. As is well known, the Center Party believes that efforts must be made to increase the capacity of companies – both small and large – to develop and grow. Parliament, government and authorities must turn all the stones around in that work. The Swedish National Audit Office's report deals with an important such stone: the government's and the authorities' regulatory simplification work or a lack of it. It is therefore serious when the Swedish National Audit Office considers that this is happening at a low rate and that the changes proposed are often of limited scope. The Swedish National Audit Office urges the Government to step up efforts to simplify tax rules for companies. This is clear language from the Swedish National Audit Office that a responsible government should take very seriously. I do not understand why the government's letter to the Riksdag could not mean that one should support the Swedish National Audit Office's opinion. Then we would have avoided that part of the debate. Unfortunately, the government does not do that. You are very passive, and the reservation is if possible even more passive. In a remarkable sense, the government says that the regulatory framework should not lead to excessive administrative costs for those who apply the rules. The government therefore believes and writes in this very remarkable sense that the regulatory framework can certainly lead to large costs for companies. The only limitation is that they should not be too large. This is the wrong entrance and shows the government's inaction on these issues. Sweden's tax system is perceived by many as complicated. The Swedish Agency for Growth estimates that administration of regulations and taxes costs companies SEK 80 million per year. From the administration that companies carry out, it is felt that the administration of taxes is the most time-consuming. It is also clear that in countries such as Norway and Finland much less time is spent on administering taxes than in Sweden. There is a great deal of room for improvement. It is precisely simple and fair rules that create legitimacy for a tax system. With simple and easy-to-understand rules, incentives to do the right thing increase. What Jörgen Hellman said was completely wrong. I don't understand it. The vast majority want to do the right thing, but there is a need for rules that aim to create a level playing field and not to complicate things unnecessarily. Therefore, Mr President, it is gratifying that the majority of the committee supports the alliance motion by Per Åsling and others and calls on the government to take further steps to speed up the simplification work... and to return to Parliament with a detailed account of these. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
