i-c2a289862c70c3dc-0	Madam President, I would like Almost two weeks ago, the European Council met for an informal meeting in Malta. The main issue on the agenda was external migration in the Central Mediterranean and in particular Libya. I am pleased to be able to report back to you that we agreed on new and important steps to deal with the refugee situation. It is about breaking human trafficking and saving lives, and we are doing so by working with Libya to support them in strengthening the border and by improving the living conditions of people in Libya and along the migration routes further down in Africa. There were more than me who highlighted the importance of all solutions based on international law, and it was also clearly stated in the declaration that we adopted. Observing international law is, of course, a challenge in a country such as Libya, where the political process is extremely fragile, and so it is both urgent to continue efforts to put an end to the conflict there and to strengthen the democratic process as well as to work closely with the United Nations Refugee and Migration Organisations (UNHCR and IOM). At the same time, of course, the important cooperation with selected African countries continues within the EU's so-called partnership framework. This work involves, among other things, an increased commitment to more effective common return policies but also to countering the root causes of people fleeing through poverty reduction and development policies. We also welcome Italy's new cooperation with Libya. It is based on the same principles of EU cooperation: practical support to Libya in the form of training, training and reception conditions for migrants – all within the framework of international law. Madam President, I would like During the meeting, we also discussed the global challenges that we see. Undeniably, we are living in a troubled time. Europe needs to have a strong and united voice and take a greater role in the global work. The actions of the new US administration have raised both uncertainty and concern, and we in the European Union will clearly stand up for our values. Nevertheless, we had a good discussion on the basis that the EU needs the US and the US need the EU. We will therefore continue to seek close cooperation, and we will try to do so together with a united voice. Madam President, I would like We concluded the meeting by discussing the future of Europe. The British Prime Minister, Theresa May, did not take part in that discussion. It was also a good discussion, several of which pointed out that the forthcoming Rome Declaration should not only look back at the progress made in European cooperation but also look forward. In this discussion, areas such as the fight against terrorism and our common security and increased cooperation in the field of defence will be central, but also climate and a common and sustainable asylum system. I mentioned the importance of also discussing social issues, which are about fair jobs and inclusive growth. Young people, in particular, must be given a chance to get to work. At the same time, many stressed that we should, of course, strive for consensus in the forthcoming discussions and that the Rome text should preferably be negotiated before the meeting. This, Madam President, was the report back from the meeting in Malta.
i-5tFHzihJNKo28gBBfNsA9o	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! On behalf of the Christian Democrats, we have followed with great interest the European Council meeting in Malta. We have taken note of the Council's conclusions which are the result of the same meeting, and there are, of course, several things to comment on again this time. The Christian Democrats are fundamentally in favour of initiatives aimed at preventing more deaths on the Mediterranean and hitting the gangs that are enriching themselves with human trafficking and also providing support for building stability in very unstable countries such as Libya. At the same time, we think there are several significant questions about this approach. The general situation in Libya is one such situation. Li village is a country that is close to being outlawed. While there is a UN-supported government, there are also more who claim power, and at least along the coast there are several military groups acting. We also think that there are questions about the so-called reception centres which are part of the bilateral Italian-Libyan agreement, which was signed just before the European Council and which was backed up by European leaders. What I want to ask the Prime Minister is Tunisia's role in the future. Tunisia is also a country under severe pressure. It is a rather small country where many migrants have made their way. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to develop how the reasoning has gone about Tunisia's role and how it can be thought forward.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-14	Madam President, I would like That is exactly right: what we are getting into now is to ensure that all these deaths are prevented and to crack the traffickers and their business model. That's what's in focus here. The general situation in Libya is fragile, as I said at the outset, and I think that is a good enough reason to see how we can strengthen Libya. How can we strengthen the democratic process and the government's ability to effectively control borders? Then, of course, this cooperation is much better than saying that we are doing nothing about it. It is a very important cooperation. This, of course, also includes the view of the surrounding countries. It is not just a question of Libya. Now Libya was treated specifically, because it is so important. So many migrants come from there, and Libya must be supported and helped to keep the borders, support for the coastguard and all that is to be done. When it comes to the surrounding countries – those which lie just around, including Tunisia, but also other countries further down in Africa, such as Niger – we need cooperation that will enable us to prevent people from needing to flee. Tunisia undoubtedly has a role there, like other countries – we shall state that, because this is broader than Libya. Right now it is focusing on Libya, so this discussion focuses most on Libya, but we have also said, of course, that it is important that we cooperate with neighbouring countries, including Tunisia.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-19	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer and reasoning. What I am thinking about precisely about the issue of Tunisia is that Tunisia is on the coast. If people smuggling across the Mediterranean from Libya is brought into order, the question is how the reasoning goes about Tunisia in the future, as so many have already chosen to go to Tunisia. Is there a discussion as to whether it is a future crossing?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-20	Madam President, I would like This also includes keeping watch on others, because of course there may be other routes. If you succeed in one place, another place may be subject to similar activities, so yes, it is that we must keep track so that we do not get other and similar tragic events. There may be several countries. It is a general matter here to ensure that when we do something in Libya to put an end to the misery – trafficking in human beings – it must not pop up elsewhere. That alert must be in place.
i-C6t6e9o2zvJjWzJmQ37Mvo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the presentation of the informal meeting of the European Council. Prior to the meeting of the EU Board, the Prime Minister was clear that the EU's support to Libya was aimed at training and strengthening the Libyan coastguard and border control. Any agreement between the EU and Libya similar to what the EU has with Turkey, for example, was not at all a matter of question. However, as the Prime Minister rightly mentioned in his introduction, the communiqué states that the European Council supports initiatives between individual Member States and Libya. The agreement that Italy has now apparently signed with Libya raises my concerns that the EU is supporting measures that the EU as a whole would not be able to support. What is the Prime Minister's view of the Italian agreement with Libya? So I am concerned that the agreement will lead to tent camps, that refugees will end up in a limbo in an impossible situation in a divided country, difficult to get to and from and so on.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-25	Madam President, I would like In the run-up to the meeting of the EU Board, we were able to see that the EU is not concluding an agreement with Libya, as has been concluded with Turkey. That's it. But we have said that individual countries that make such agreements – there may be more of that product – will also comply with international law. Italy's agreement with Libya also states that account should be taken of Italy's membership of the European Union and international law. The agreement is based on the same premise. The EU has taken a decision covering all countries. The agreements with which individual countries conclude, in this case, Libya should of course be based on exactly the same premises. It includes support for education and assistance to the people of Libya. They will also have the best access to medical assistance, which many will need, and other assistance and humanitarian assistance. The agreement is based on the same premises as EU support.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-27	Madam President, I would like The question then remains as to how the Prime Minister intends to ensure and follow up that individuals, people who end up in these camps do not stay there permanently, are trapped in a system that is not under control at all. Thus, if they so wish, they cannot return to their countries of origin.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-28	Madam President, I would like It says in the agreement between Italy and Libya that it is a matter of temporal camps and while awaiting repatriation or voluntary return, and so on. It's supposed to be temporary. You do something temporary to help the people who are there. I personally cannot guarantee – I also said this at the meeting of the European Council – that everything will happen exactly according to the school book, so to speak. No one can do that. However, the agreements we are concluding now are incredibly important in order to put an end to this trafficking in human beings and to help Libya build up its country and provide support in the democratic process. We are strengthening Libya's ability to have cross-border control, which is an international obligation. Italy has concluded a bilateral agreement which also aims to help with humanitarian aid. It's supposed to be a temporary camp under the agreement.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Prior to the informal summit in Valletta, the Prime Minister was asked about how enhanced cooperation with Libya will succeed on the ground. As we know, there is a very unstable situation in the country. It worsens rather than improves. There are already a number of parallel actions under way which will be evaluated. How do these ongoing efforts work in a country where lawlessness prevails? How were these aspects of the summit discussed – with regard to future action? I have a question relating to the meeting of the European Council ahead of the summit. The Prime Minister talked about taking that project for projects. I thought it was taking a project at a time. At the same time, a number of parallel efforts are under way or will continue. Did the meeting in any way discuss how these actions will work?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-35	Madam President, I would like No, it was not discussed in detail that these projects should be precise. The declaration concludes on the direction, the objective and the main strategy to be pursued. I repeat that it is incredibly important to know that Libya is fragile politically. The question is whether something humanitarian can be done for refugees while strengthening Libya's democratic process. We believe that this is a way to do both. In these activities, the EU is constantly in contact with both UNHCR and IOM. High Representative Federica Mogherini reported that she had had talks with representatives of both organisations on the previous days. They're following the work. We shall have that cooperation in mind to regularly monitor that the work is done in a good way. The entire document is based on international law, with cooperation with both the Libyan Government and UN agencies to ensure that it is correct.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-39	Madam President, I would like I also have a question about the financing of operations in Libya. Does the Prime Minister think that the funding for the various actions planned is solid? Is there a risk that a re-priority will have to be made in the EU budget? What is EUR 152 million from the Member States? It is said that they should be a contribution from the Member States.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-42	Madam President, I would like Article 7 of the Declaration examines the funding already available. It's the one that's being invoked. It is the Official Development Assistance for Africa and the EU Trust Fund for Africa. The money's there. It is the money that is claimed in the declaration. It is not said that there will be any other charge to be paid by the Member States. There is funding, and that is what is referred to in the declaration.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-43	Madam President, I would like The agreement with Libya is a shameful agreement. It aims to keep people in concentration camplike conditions. We already know that there are somewhere between 700 000 and 1 million people in camps in Libya. Human rights groups such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch etcetera have strongly criticised the agreement. It is believed that what the EU will do is send people back to a life of torture, human trafficking, rape – in short, to a country that is on the verge of a civil war. Stefan Löfven and EU leaders consistently say that these thousands of people who try to escape from this inferno are economic refugees. I have read a report from Amnesty International which shows that women fleeing take condoms and take birth control pills because they know that they are likely to be raped along the way. Yet they run. Stefan Löfven! Do you really think these women are economic refugees? Could it not be that they want to do everything they can to escape these terrible circumstances? This agreement will only lead people to resort to increasingly desperate methods of escape across the Mediterranean. Last year was the worst year ever. More people than ever drowned in the Mediterranean. You consistently refuse to call this an agreement, but it is just as Eskil Erlandsson says: there is an agreement in essence. That is the end of Italy and Libya, and you say in your conclusions that the European Union is behind that agreement. Why don't you tell me the truth, Stefan Löfven?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-49	Madam President, I would like I think we share the view that the situation that we have now, when millions of people are forced to flee their homes and thousands of people are dying in the Mediterranean, must be brought to an end. That is why we are primarily helping Libya, which is a fragile country that needs to have control over its borders. There are totally unscrupulous people who certainly do both one and the other of the things Jens Holm listed but who also send out people into craft that they know will most likely sink. Is this a good situation? No, it's horrible. That is why we must help Libya, help people in Libya and help the countries from which they come so that they can have a decent life. That is why this is both support in Libya for the democratic government of Libya and support for other countries in Africa so that people do not have to flee at all. I do not see the positive side of this situation. It must be broken, and then the business model of the traffickers must be broken. They make huge money from this, from people's misfortune. We must stop this, and I believe that this is a way forward for it. But it is not just the activities in Libya that should count. See the big picture! See the support that we are now developing within the partnership framework! Just over a year ago, we sat with the African countries and agreed that we should have development work that means fewer people need to flee. But we must put an end to the misery that is going on around the Mediterranean.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-54	Madam President, I would like I think Stefan Löfven and I agree on the importance of eradicating the cause of people fleeing. It is poverty, war, political and religious persecution, sexual discrimination and so on. But, Stefan Löfven, that is what this EUR 200 million and all the other money you are pumping in are going to go to – not to build a major military operation on the Mediterranean, not to build assembly camps and not to invest more in surveillance resources, but, on the contrary, to eradicate the reasons why people are fleeing. We could invest much more in quota refugees. We could invest more in legal ways. We could spend more money saving lives in the Mediterranean. It's done far too little. I would like to ask again about the women who are so desperate when they run away that they even eat the pill or bring condoms. Stefan Löfven! Are they economic refugees?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-58	Madam President, I would like There is no mention of economic refugees in the declaration. We must put an end to the situation that is, and we do not have such a name for these refugees at all. This is not just a major military operation. We need to see the breadth of it. This misery must end, because people die in the Mediterranean. Only this year have hundreds died. This must be stopped, and these methods must be used. But this also includes Libya being able to secure its borders and that people should have better conditions in Libya as well. Italy's agreement with Libya includes, among other things, medical assistance. A lot of medical help is needed, and it's included. The work involves cooperation with other African countries so that people do not have to flee at all. We must see the breadth but also that this must stop. I think it's really important.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-62	Madam President, I would like It was an exciting order of speech, I must say. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your report. Anyone who is politically involved in these issues has probably had a difficult situation in recent years. As the Prime Minister also says, this is a question of balancing. Therefore, I am pleased to hear that the focus is on saving lives, stopping human trafficking, strengthening orderly asylum procedures, improving life chances and strengthening borders. It is good that Sweden stands for good and good values – just like all other values that you should stand for not only at home but no matter where you are in the world. It feels safe, at least on this issue. But I get a little worried when I hear TT quote Stefan Löfven. If that is true, even though it is only February, it should be the biggest understatement of the year. Stefan Löfven says Libya is not a fully functioning state. It is not a fully functioning state. I would like to hear Stefan Löfven tell us how he views Libya. Is Libya not a fully functioning state, or is it the case that Libya has serious problems with, for example, all the things that my colleague from the Left Party listed? The Prime Minister said on the EU Board that he cannot guarantee that this will go right. But it's still our voice we send out into the world. The Prime Minister must then be able to guarantee in some way that what we are talking about when it comes to upholding international law is actually being observed. Although Stefan Löfven believes that he cannot promise anything, I would like to hear how he will act in this.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-69	Madam President, I would like In the last part, as I said before, there is a government in Libya. It has the support of the UN Security Council, and it has a special UN representative. We think it is important that it is supported throughout the democratic process. This includes the country's ability to control its own borders. You can have different descriptions of Libya. Of course it doesn't work. It's not a functioning state. We all agree on that. The question is how we get there. I think that's so important to think about. This work, this process, is part of this. That is why, among other things, I called the Head of the UNHCR Grandi the week before to hear how the UNHCR views this work. It is clear that the UNHCR sees every opportunity for improvement. Nothing's perfect. But you think it's basically right to do this. So does the IOM. The Swedish Government has had contact with both UNHCR and IOM, as well as with High Representative Federica Mogherini. In order for it to work properly, they are included. As I said in the European Council, I cannot personally guarantee that everything will go perfectly right. I don't think anyone can do that. But we have to choose between doing this experiment, based on international law and law and human rights – that is the starting point – in cooperation with the UN agencies, and doing nothing and allowing thousands of people to die on the Mediterranean. I think the latter is the wrong way to go. That is why we are doing this, and that is why the starting point, as we write in the Declaration, is human rights and international law. That is the basis, and that is what we shall proceed with in cooperation with, for example, UNHCR and IOM.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I think there is a lot on which we agree. It was particularly nice to hear that the Prime Minister is not saying that Libya is not a fully functioning state. That was supposed to be the biggest understatement of the year so far. In previous discussions on this, the budget discussion has always come up, i.e. whip or carrot. Were there any such discussions at this meeting, that is to say, in the run-up to the budget negotiations in 2020, setting parameters that would make it impossible for a country to accept the quota that it has the responsibility and the obligation to do so, for example, will it not receive agricultural aid? We know that Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic have so far refused to accept some of the 160 000 refugees from Greece and Italy that we had previously to allocate and that Slovakia has even taken the refugee decision to the European Court of Justice. Was that discussion at all on the agenda?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-76	Madam President, I would like No, it wasn't up at the meeting that way. That issue was not discussed. We will have to return to our common internal migration system. It wasn't up for discussion. But we stand by our view, as I explained earlier. It is time to raise this issue for real, because you cannot choose à la carte just what is fun and easy to do. It must be seen if you choose not to play your part in joint responsibility. Let's get back to that.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-78	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for reporting back from the last informal meeting of the European Council. The meeting mainly revolved around Libya and the new migration route that we have seen since the EU's agreement with Turkey came into place. We see large migratory flows, not least from Libya and other African countries as well. It is very important to get action precisely in Libya to combat the root causes of people choosing to go towards Europe. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we welcome the efforts in Libya. We would like to see an expansion in other African countries as well and a constant monitoring by the EU of the development of migration routes. We have long advocated help on the ground. It is important to ensure that countries are built up so that people do not have to go towards Europe. The main focus must be to reduce the pressure on asylum, not least on countries such as Sweden, Germany and other countries that have taken a huge responsibility, as it is called. My question to the Prime Minister in this context is about what the financing looks like. It's been asking questions about it before. I would like to hear an assurance from the Prime Minister that the efforts in Libya and other African countries will not further burden the EU budget and that it will not burden the Swedish taxpayer, who is already among the largest net donors in the Union. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that it will not lead to further expansion of the EU budget and that it will not burden the Swedish taxpayer? I have another question. We have been able to take note of media reporting that at the summit there was a suggestion from Austria that people should no longer be able to apply for asylum within the EU but only be able to do so outside the Union. I would like to hear the Prime Minister comment on how that proposal was received and commented on.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-83	Madam President, I would like With regard to the latter part, we did not have any discussion on additional asylum examination mechanisms. There was no such discussion on this. With regard to financing, I can again refer to Section 7 of the declaration. It examines what funding is meant. As I said in a previous answer, it is, among other things, about Official Development Assistance for Africa. There is the EU Trust Fund for Africa. Then the Commission also intends to mobilise an additional EUR 200 million for northern Africa from a fund located there. It's the means that's there. There has been no discussion about us bringing any additional funds to the EU budget or about Sweden spending additional money. The finance ring referred to in Section 7 was the one we discussed and agreed on.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-85	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. However, I can once again note that in media reporting – perhaps not in Sweden, but in other European countries – and not least from Reuters, it has nevertheless emerged from the summit that Austria would make such a proposal. Do I interpret the Prime Minister correctly that Austria did not make such a proposal that people should no longer be able to apply for asylum within the EU, but that there should only be opportunities for it outside the Union? I would like a concrete and clear answer on whether the proposal was discussed at all. With regard to the commitment that it will not burden the EU budget further, this is obviously a positive thing. We hope that there will be something that will remain and that, at a later date, we will not try to increase the budget, as is common in these contexts when we have different efforts. Finally, I would also like to point out that Sweden has again resumed the redistribution mechanism, which we regret, and that Sweden, together with Germany, is pressing for a permanent system in this area. That is something that is deeply regrettable.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-89	Madam President, I would like It was not such a discussion whether we should adopt such a proposal or not to adopt such a proposal, which is reproduced here by Pavel Gamov. There was simply no such discussion. If at some point they mentioned that they think it's good, I should leave it unsaid. But it was not a concrete proposal up there that was discussed and dealt with in this way. What we have discussed, discussed and agreed on is what is stated in the declaration.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-90	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank the Prime Minister for the reporting back from the European Council. As in many European Councils, the meeting was dominated by migration. It's no wonder what it looks like. In the best of worlds, we wouldn't have had to discuss it. But the world is not so good. I am pleased that the Prime Minister stresses the need to ensure the origin of people fleeing. It is about poverty reduction, development policy, solving wars, and so on. At the same time, we are facing a situation right now with a great many refugees. In addition, the weather is beginning to improve, causing many smugglers to start their activities. It is clear then that something must be done on the part of the European Union and also in the talks you have with Libya. It is very important that the Prime Minister stresses that it must be in accordance with international law and that it must be cooperation with UNHCR and IOM. At the same time, we must continue discussions in the European Union on solidarity-based reception of refugees. It would dissolve a lot of knots. I would like the Prime Minister, although I know that this was not the main point of the meeting, to say something about the situation of the solidarity-based reception of refugees within the European Union. It is a shame that there is not a good distribution within the European Union. At the same time, it is very good, because asylum law is something very important, that we agree on a return policy. Of course, those who are not refugees should return. Otherwise, we can never gain acceptance and never protect the right of asylum.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-95	Madam President, I would like First of all, I fully share the view of attacking the reasons why people need to flee. What we are doing now is to be done in accordance with international law. That is the whole point of departure and the basic conditions themselves. As far as our joint reception of refugees and the EU system are concerned, this was not discussed here. But it is clear that it was also mentioned that it is important that we deal with such a thing. The Maltese Presidency is doing a very good job, in my opinion, in getting a compromise. Everyone understands that somehow we have to try to reach each other. Right now it's a little bit away. At least it sounds like that. That job has to go on. If we cannot do this – and I have said this several times to the countries that are most reluctant – we are all weakening Europe. That can't be the point here. The seven pieces of legislation that exist as proposals that we ourselves are discussing here at home are there. I would think that the Maltese Presidency is working on some kind of compromise. I don't have any information on what it could look like. We know that the countries that are most reluctant talk about flexible solidarity, as they say. They should be free to choose what they want to do in this context in that perspective. We believe that the reception itself should be a shared responsibility for all countries. We agree on this, not least, with Germany. Angela Merkel confirmed it when she was here a few weeks ago. That is also what several other countries have expressed. We will simply have to be active ourselves in order for it to become something together with like-mind countries and to support the Maltese Presidency, which has a very difficult task. It also does a very good job with it.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-101	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. The second part of the Valletta meeting is about the future of Europe. As a social democrat, I think it is very good that the Prime Minister also raises the social issues. The gap has increased dramatically in Europe since the financial crisis. If people feel that they are not involved, that they do not have the resources of society, it creates great uncertainty, and we can see that in many countries. Of course, highlighting social issues is not about starting to decide on them at European level; it is about the fact that – for example, in the area of free trade, which can knock out a lot of jobs – there are different ways of catching up with people so that they do not feel that they are constantly being sidelined. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he feels that there is acceptance in the European circle to discuss social issues.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-103	Madam President, I would like Yes, I do, and I am glad that this also seems clear across the political groups in this House. That makes me happy. There are several people who see the need for this, and I am not really so surprised. There are an increasing number of people around the world who are saying that there is a desire for a social dimension based on fair conditions if we are to have real sustainable growth and development. That is the perseverance, and I think many people see it. So there is. It's not like everyone stands up and says, "This is exactly what we're going to have! 中, but I would say that most people probably see the need for some kind of social dimension– without us extending the EU's decision-making powers further, which has never been the idea. Much of this is national decision-making, but we must have a common ambition that there should also be order and proper conditions in the European labour market.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-105	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for reporting back from the EU summit. Working on this type of action in Libya today – under international law, which includes international asylum law – is, of course, as the Prime Minister said, a challenge. I think that all of us in this Chamber can understand and clearly see the problems in this. Since the Swedish Government was among the strongest in pressing for the EU to now emphasise the importance of the interaction between the International Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and the IOM, I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the possibility of ensuring that refugees can safely be protected in European countries. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister also had discussions with EU colleagues about the fact that the EU countries must now be prepared and prepared to receive refugees in a safer way than to get into unseaworthy boats and travel across the Mediterranean.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-108	Madam President, I would like I start at the end: we did not have such a thorough discussion about what each country should do, but it is included, as it were, in this package. You have an obligation. We must comply with international law and international law, and that is the right to seek asylum. On the other hand, we agree that we must stop this situation by forcing people to flee in this way and die on the Mediterranean. It is about thousands of people, and it is something we must stop. There, cooperation with Libya is important. The conversation I had with UNHCR's chief Grandi and the conversation Morgan Johansson has had with the IOM manager, as well as the talks Federica Mogherini had with both of them, took place precisely with a view to strengthening this. We wanted to hear directly from the organisations how they assess the situation and whether it is possible to implement it in a good way. They say yes. Of course, things need to be improved and strengthened– nothing is perfect– but they make the assessment that this can be done in a good way. I think it is important that we have that dialogue. It is important both that the European Union has it and that we, as Member States, have direct contact with them and hear their assessment. These are very difficult questions. It is, of course, very complex, and there is much to fall into place. However, we must start with this in order to put an end to this misery – this terrible situation. Then what we have done now is the right step to take.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-111	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I think we all agree that people fleeing Europe in unworthy boats across the Mediterranean are coming from a situation that is very, very serious and difficult. At the same time, it is clear that several countries in the EU are today in a process where it is clear, at least from parts of the leadership, that all kinds of measures are about preventing migration and refugees from coming to Europe at all. I believe that this is problematic for the future picture and cooperation that we want to see in Europe. There are strong drivers for migration worldwide, and the EU's basic foundations have been openness to both trade and migration – both in the case of refugees and in the case of other types of migration. This is therefore a point to make. Although it is a difficult debate to hold in the EU now, I hope that the Prime Minister will carry that message with him in future discussions.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-114	Madam President, I would like That is absolutely the case. We stand up for the right of asylum; it is international law. But when millions of people are in this situation, we must prevent the disaster. It is a disaster for many of these people. That is why I want us to see the breadth of this. We are also making a good start on development work on the African continent. For example, we have good cooperation with Niger, as often a transit country. There people are given relevant information about the possibility of going back instead of exposing themselves to this. Many believe it will be a trip to paradise, but for many it has become a journey right into death. We must work towards this, quite simply. Then we have an important refugee discussion globally, which the UNHCR is now leading. What will future global standards look like? What are we going to do in Europe? This includes, of course, the right to apply for asylum.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-117	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. During the second part of the meeting, the global challenges were discussed, and the Prime Minister briefly described the content of the letter and the geopolitical challenges. The Prime Minister also highlighted social issues. Nevertheless, I would like the Prime Minister to develop this slightly. This is an extremely urgent debate, because, as I have said, we are facing both external pressures and internal pressures. Europe and its future are, if not at a crossroads, under very high pressure. What was the Prime Minister's contribution to the discussion, apart from the social dimension? What was the Swedish starting point in nailing not only what the challenges are, but also how the EU countries together will tackle them in order to move forward?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-120	Madam President, I would like This is an important discussion that has been initiated. We cannot just look back in Rome, but we must look forward and show what the European Union is going to do – and stand by. One such question is security. We believe that cooperation in combating and combating terrorism is one of those issues where we can become much better and create more security for people. Another issue is defence cooperation, which I myself raised as an opportunity. There too, we will not transfer the decision-making power – it is national – but we would like to contribute to reinforced defence cooperation. It's needed in this time. Another issue is the climate issue, where we can definitely see that the EU can play a very important role in living up to the Paris Agreement – that it is implemented and that we have good contact with India, China and other major players. We will continue to influence the United States. This is important for all of us. It is good for the United States, and it is good for the European Union. On the issue of jobs, I have always firmly believed that cooperation in the European Union is absolutely essential if we are to create sufficient conditions, including here in Sweden. Europe is a completely different market where standards can be developed and where investment, training and all that we need to do can be invested. It's going to continue. This is particularly true of youth unemployment. We must show young people that they will also have a job in the future, and there we can do more together. Finally, we have the social conditions. I think it is connected: if you are to have a good development for the labour market and employment, the social conditions must keep up. Then people also feel safe in a change, and there will be a change. The future will be different. However, the future should not mean anxiety and fear, but the future should also mean security. These are some examples of what has been discussed and what we ourselves have put forward.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-126	Madam President, I would like This discussion does not end with this being discussed in the European Council; it will continue. I would therefore like to join in what the Prime Minister said linked to the United States. It was also something the State Ministries said was discussed at the meeting: M an noted that the EU needs the US but that the US also needs the EU. It is extremely important now that the transatlantic link – both the economic and security aspects – can be maintained. Can the Prime Minister say anything more about what concrete measures were discussed, without revealing any kind of negotiating tactics? It is about how the EU, both jointly and each Member State separately, is approaching the US to ensure that the transatlantic link can remain strong. For we are benefiting from it both in the United States and in the European Union.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-128	Madam President, I would like The High Representative, Frederica Mogherini, has been in Washington discussing and explaining the EU's position, exactly in line with what Karin Enström is talking about and what we stand for. Now it is the American administration that has to develop its policy. We do not yet really know what is happening in the various areas. We can see a few directions, but we do not know quite yet, for example, about free trade. We know that the TTIP negotiations will not resume. I'm afraid it's probably dead for quite some time. But in other matters we do not yet know. In fact, when Theresa May was there, she also stressed the importance of a strong Europe for Washington. The US administration therefore hears from the United Kingdom, which is about to leave the EU, that a strong Europe is still important to the United States as well. I said in my speech that it is now important for us that we are united but also that, when we meet the United States bilaterally, we should do so in such a way as to strengthen our relationship.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-151	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me how the government intends to proceed with the proposals from the inquiry into the revision of the 3:12 rules and how these will affect jobs and public finances. It is more than taxes that affect companies' conditions and competitiveness. According to the latest report by the World Economic Forum, Sweden has improved its competitiveness and climbed from a ninth place to a sixth place on the ranking of 138 countries. The Government's industrial policy aims to make it easier for companies to develop and operate. There should remain good fiscal conditions for running businesses, contributing to growth, jobs and stable public finances. The purpose of the study's proposal is not primarily to make work more expensive, but rather to reduce incentives for income transformation. The proposal also aims to improve the tax environment for generational shifts. The investigation's proposals are currently being consulted. The complexity of the regulations means that the government wants to wait for referrals before making further comments.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-155	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. It is people at work who build Sweden strong. Thanks to them, we can have good teachers at school, good food at the nursing home and safe care at the emergency department. The more people who work and develop at work, the safer our welfare will be, because more people can pay and fewer people need subsidies. Four out of five jobs are created in SMEs. The conditions are crucial if the companies are to continue to be Sweden's job engine. Taxes are an important part of that. Recently, the report on the so-called 3:12 rules, which relate precisely to the taxation of shareholders in smaller companies, was submitted. The investigation was set up by the Alliance Government to facilitate the transfer of ownership of these companies, and in these parts the investigation has also presented important proposals. But when the present government came to power, it changed the directives substantially, with the sole aim of raising the tax. This has now resulted in proposals for tax increases of nearly SEK 5 billion, which risk hitting companies and jobs in Sweden hard. The study itself shows that the proposals can lead to precisely reduced entrepreneurship and fewer jobs. The tax increases are clearly contrary to the government's target of having the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. In addition, it testifies to short-term perspectives. To believe that tax increases always mean long-term increases in revenue is to turn a blind eye to how taxes actually affect people's and companies' willingness to invest and to develop. When fewer people think it pays to work, fewer people do. This is the background to my interpellation with the Minister of Finance. How does the government intend to proceed with the investigation's proposals? How does the Minister of Finance view the risk of fewer jobs when it becomes less profitable to run a business? And how does the Minister of Finance view the risk of public finances being affected when it pays less to work, to hire and to run businesses? The Minister of Finance answers that it is not just the tax that matters. That, of course, is true. But the tax is an extremely important part, because it affects profitability, the willingness to invest and the willingness to take risks. The Entrepreneurship Investigation, which is another government investigation, writes that taxes are probably the most important and powerful framework that political power has to create a dynamic and entrepreneurial environment. That is why, Madam President, caution should be exercised when taxing taxes. I find it interesting that the Minister of Finance is addressing precisely the World Economic Forum. These successes are largely due to the alliance government's reforms in order to reduce taxes on labour – it is most important for those who earn the least – and also because A Lliansen took Sweden exemplaryly well out of the economic crisis. That is why today there are conditions for good growth and falling unemployment. However, it has very little to do with the government's industrial policy, as the Minister for Finance says in his reply. On the contrary, government policy reinforces the concerns raised by the World Economic Forum regarding Sweden. When it comes to the effect of taxes on the driving force to work, Sweden rages from place 94 to 120. The tax burden on labour is even considered to be a greater risk than the housing market, which we all know is dysfunctional. Nevertheless, the government chooses to increase taxes on labour – contrary to all recommendations. This is being done despite the fact that the Finance Minister himself is telling me today that there should be still good fiscal conditions for running businesses, which contributes to growth, jobs and stable public finances. Why has the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship been increased by 40 billion? And why is it planned to raise it by another SEK 20 billion, of which 5 on Sweden's job engine – the entrepreneurs?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-165	Madam President, I would like If the World Economic Forum's ranking was due to the Moderates, one might wonder exactly what Maria Malmer Stenergard is doing. We have fallen precisely in terms of tax cuts. The fact that we have fallen in the tax ranking compared with the previous one is precisely due to the policy that this government has pursued. But what the World Economic Forum shows is that not only can you look at taxes, but you also have to look at the other indicators. The World Economic Forum brings together the tax increases that this government has implemented, what we have spent the money for and the biggest change, namely that we have taken responsibility for public finances and are making a big leap up in that league. The World Economic Forum makes the assessment that this is all about the tax increases, how we use the money and how we strengthen public finances – strengthening Sweden's competitiveness. Therefore, as Moderates would be happy to do, one cannot simply look at the taxes. You also have to look at what the tax money is used for. We can see how growth is rising, how employment is increasing and how unemployment is falling with the tax changes that the government has made so far during its term of office. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years, despite the fact that Maria Malmer Stenergard has often stood in this pulpit wondering how the government's tax promotion policy can lead to more people in work. This is done by spending money on education, infrastructure investments, housing and much more. 3:12- the investigation is out for a referral. This legislation is complex, and it is therefore important that we listen carefully to the consultation bodies. We will not decide how to proceed with this investigation until we have received the views of all the referral bodies. However, it is important to see how the 3:12 rules work today. If you compare a doctor with someone who has a 3:12 company, the 3:12 entrepreneur pays 100 000 less tax on the same income each year. Perhaps somewhere there we should reflect on whether this is quite right. That is my question to Maria Stenergard.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-170	Madam President, I would like I and the Minister of Finance can talk about how to interpret the World Economic Forum – at least I dare not think about what they should say if the government implements the 3:12 investigation's proposals as they look today. In his reply, the Minister of Finance refers to the fact that the investigation is being referred and that she wants to wait for the referral. On 10 February, the consultation period expired, and the referee has recently arrived. I'm going to read you a little sample. The proposals as a whole mean a serious deterioration that can hit hard on entrepreneurship and employment in Sweden, says the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Entrepreneurs say that the proposals risk hitting entrepreneurship, investment and growth hard. The proposals can be harmful, as they risk breaking Entrepreneurship Sweden's confidence in stable framework conditions when the rules are not perceived as legitimate. The Swedish Association of Small Enterprises believes that the proposals create an unreasonable tax burden for member companies in the short term and that in the long term they limit opportunities for companies to develop. Madam President, I would like As many as 300 000 companies and 400 000 shareholders of companies are affected by these changes. Of these, 150 000 entrepreneurs will suffer from increased taxes. Indirectly, the 800 000 employed in these companies are also affected. The tax increases proposed in the study are very large for some. Unfortunately, the impact assessment is limited, but we have allowed Parliament's investigation service to count on the proposals. The calculations show, for example, that a plumber with his own company can get a tax increase of up to SEK 20 000 per year. The organisation Entrepreneurs points out that some entrepreneurs would have tax increases of between 74 and 114 per cent. The Minister of Finance compares this with an employee. I am quite sure that no one would accept such a tax increase for a wage earner, nor should we do that for the entrepreneurs. There seems to be an underlying idea that you can squeeze out of the country's business without losing interest. There seems to be a notion that every entrepreneur is cutting gold. But this is not true. Those affected by the new rules are not faceless capital in a tax haven. Instead, it is the neighbour who runs a cleaning company, the self-employed in it across the street and the café owner in the suburbs. It is about entrepreneurs who are not just investing their money, which is a significant difference from the one who is employed. That's a risk. Entrepreneurs also invest weekends, evenings and nights for the company to go around. The government usually says that it wants to protect these entrepreneurs, but it must also be demonstrated in practical action. Can the Minister of Finance answer yes or no to this question: does the Minister of Finance think that increased taxation for small businesses can lead to fewer jobs, as a number of experts and the investigation itself mean? If the answer is yes, I must, of course, ask the supplementary question why the government wants to risk jobs.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-181	Madam President, I would like I note that Maria Stenergard did not answer my question. Of course, if you are self-employed and take a risk, you should be able to get a return on that risk. At the same time, it is important that the rules are legitimate, as Maria Stenergard points out. She talks about self-employed people working weekends, nights and nights. I mentioned the example of a doctor, and Maria Malmer Stenergard did not want to answer my question in this connection. A doctor also works weekends, nights and nights. Nevertheless, with the tax system that we have today, the 3:12 entrepreneur pays 100 000 less tax than the doctor every year. I also think it is reasonable that those who have invested in their own company should be able to get a higher discharge and therefore a little lower tax for this. But is $100,000 a reasonable difference in taxation between a 3:12 entrepreneur and a doctor when both work evenings, weekends and nights? Yes or no? Now I will answer your question: is it the case that increased taxation for small businesses can provide fewer jobs? It is not possible to answer this question if you do not answer what the money is used for. It could have a negative impact if you just increased the tax and put the money in your pocket – we know that taxes affect behaviour. However, it is different if you use tax revenues for something that improves companies' ability to operate and expand. When I meet small businessmen, they say that one of the biggest problems is that they find it difficult to recruit workers with the right skills. If we raise taxes but ensure that people are educated so that they can take the jobs that are emerging, this can create more jobs than if we did not make this tax change.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-186	Madam President, I would like Actually, I thought I answered the question. I think it is reasonable to have an increased return when you take a greater risk. It is important for people who run businesses, who succeed and who hire. Instead, I think that the Minister for Finance can answer if she thinks it is reasonable that the plumber should receive SEK 20 000 more in tax. The Red Green Government has since it took office lined up measures that hit entrepreneurs and businesses. For example, the limits on RUT deductions, a substandard proposal on employee stock options, a profit ban that would mean closures in the welfare sector, increased marginal tax, financial tax that affects as many as 300 000 companies outside the financial sector and a kilometre tax. These are just a few examples. Increased entrepreneurial tax would be another one in a series of proposals that are detrimental to entrepreneurs. The government has already increased taxes by SEK 40 billion on jobs and growth, and plans are being made for an additional SEK 20 billion, of which SEK 5 billion will hit entrepreneurs – Sweden's job creator. A safe school, a safe preschool, safe care, safe old age, security from violence and other crimes: all of this, Madam President, requires safe businesses, because it is they who pay for welfare. Unfortunately, since it took office, the government has created insecurity for them. We can't afford that. We cannot afford those who create four out of five new jobs to lose their spark. In a globalised and digitised world, where goods and services move across borders, Swedish companies must have good conditions. Taxes are an important part of this – it must pay off to work, and it must pay off to run a business. That is why we reject unilateral tax increases for small and medium-sized enterprises. This should also be done by the government if jobs are genuinely safeguarded.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-191	Madam President, I would like Attention, doctor of Sweden! It's good that the Moderates speak plain language. The Moderates therefore believe that a doctor should pay 100 000 SEK more in tax than anyone who runs a 3:12 company. This is what the Moderates think is right and fair. I believe, however, that there are many doctors who do not agree with that. But this policy has a consequence, namely that it becomes very profitable to run your own company rather than to be employed. There is a risk that many people who have this opportunity choose to create a fictitious company and take in revenue in this way instead of being employees. This is exactly the development that we have seen in not least a lot of industries here in Stockholm. You get into a company, you take wages to a certain level, and then you take the rest out of capital income. What happens then? Then the gaps increase. When people collect high income and do not pay income tax, but pay a low income tax on income, the gap increases. It is no wonder that the Moderates think this is a good policy, for the Moderates are and remain a party that wants to increase the divides and ensure that those who earn a lot should have low taxes while ordinary people should pay. Then we'll see how we proceed with the investigation. However, the fact that the system we have today is not entirely optimal is probably something that I and Maria Malmer Stenergard have different views on. I think it is important that high-income people are also involved in contributing to our children's school.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-196	Madam President, I would like Ann-Britt Ann-Britt has asked me what measures I and the government are prepared to take to ensure that the whole country is given the opportunity to contribute and to increase the state presence, for example in the form of Apoteket AB, in smaller towns. The government sees the question of the location of the state authorities as very important. People, towns and entire areas should not be abandoned by the state. The state presence should increase throughout the country, and the state should assume its responsibility for a Sweden that holds together. Several initiatives have been taken to achieve this. Among other things, Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi is tasked with ensuring that every citizen has access to a basic state service regardless of where in the country they live. Effective government must be able to respond to the needs of citizens in the best possible way. The Government has initiated a parliamentary rural committee that has been tasked with proposing what a coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas should look like. The Rural Committee has handed over its final report. One of the proposals is that jobs in government agencies should be relocated from the Stockholm FA region. The final report has now been referred to a large number of stakeholders. I look forward to hearing comments on, among other things, a strengthened state presence in rural areas. Ann-Britt Ann-Britt asks specifically about Apoteket AB's location of its remote pharmacy facilities. However, the decision to reorganise distance selling is an operational company matter to decide for Apoteket AB, which operates in a fully competitive market, which is a consequence of the previous government's decision to liberalise the pharmacy monopoly. The Government does not decide on the location of individual business components in state-owned companies. The pharmacy market has developed rapidly since the reregulation. New, fast and efficient delivery solutions are a prerequisite for meeting the expectations and wishes of customers as well as fierce competition in e-commerce in the pharmacy market. It is of great importance that distance selling can be run in the best possible way, so that women and men in all parts of the country can get the most efficient, fast and safe delivery of medicines possible. I would like to point out that Apoteket AB continues to have a very extensive business outside the big cities even after the reorganisation.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-202	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Rural Affairs. June 30, 2000 was a sad day in the history of the Dal Regiment. A unit dating back to the 1600s was closed, and many jobs disappeared from the small town of Falun. The Social Democratic Government would then ensure that jobs were created on the ground. Among other things, Falun received a dosapotek and a distance pharmacy with about a hundred employees. It was a compensation for the closure of I13. The dosapotek was closed in 2011, and now it is the turn of the distance pharmacy to disappear from the locality. Some fifty people are affected by the relocation of the business from Falun to the Stockholm area, where the wholesale company Tamro takes over the business. At the same time, the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development has presented its final report with many proposals for the whole of Sweden to live. The report contains, among other things, a proposal to relocate 10 000 government jobs from the Stockholm area, and that sounds good. But, Madam President, now I, who have been involved in politics for a long time, am somewhat refined. During the 1970s, a number of government works were relocated to the province, including the Domänverket, to my home town. Some ten years later, the Domänverket moved back to the Stockholm area, leaving an elaborate office complex to its fate. For many years, fine premises were gaping empty. Unfortunately, I am not too optimistic that replacement jobs will come about in the nice, newly built premises where Apoteket AB has had its business.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-207	Madam President, I would like I think it's great that Ann-Britt Ann-Britt engages in the state presence in the countryside. I welcome everyone who is involved in it and for Swedish rural areas. The Swedish countryside has been neglected for a long time, and that is something that this government actually wants to change and has begun to take hold of. We also set up a parliamentary rural committee to develop a coherent policy for Swedish rural areas. I am pleased that the Committee has made 75 proposals and that 74 of the seven parliamentary parties fully agree on what concerns Swedish rural areas and developments there, including the state presence. We have also worked with a food strategy that in many cases concerns Swedish rural areas. I am also pleased that seven parliamentary parties have agreed on the overall objectives and strategic areas of Swedish food strategy by 2030. It is good that a consensus has been found on this. I would like to remind you that this government has begun the relocation of government jobs from Stockholm to the country. The Tax Agency was closing nine tax offices around the country when we took office. They were never shut down. The E-Health Agency has been relocated to Kalmar. The Property Inspection Board has been relocated to Värmland. The relocation is therefore started but far from complete. Ann-Britt Ann-Britt works in the Moderates, a party that usually says that the market has the best solutions – I have heard that very many times. Perhaps it was this analysis that was the basis for the bourgeois government's decision to liberalise the pharmacy market. That is when the decision was taken to liberalise the pharmacy market. In any case, I have realised that ideologically motivated liberalisation has not saved the countryside. The consequences of liberalisation are that Apoteket AB will itself take the necessary decisions to adapt to current market conditions. The bourgeois government was very well aware of this when these decisions were made. I have a supplementary question for you, Ann-Britt Ann-Britt: Have the Moderates reconsidered their position with your interpellation? Do you no longer think it was a good idea to liberalise the pharmacy monopoly? I look forward to hearing your answer to this.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-214	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for the questions. I am pleased, also living in a sparsely populated landscape, that we have a rural minister who seems to be tackling these issues and doing something about them. I will return to the rural minister's question, but first let me tell you a little about the distance pharmacy in Falun, from where it will now be moved 55 jobs to the Greater Stockholm area. A distance pharmacy is a pharmacy that deals with e-commerce and has many customers. They put medicines in cartons and send them out to the clients. For many of those who work at the distance pharmacy in Falun, this is their first job. Young people who have these jobs learn what it's like to be in a workplace. They have to come up with a certain amount of time and do the expenses they're supposed to do. The most important thing is the personal prerequisites: that you can fit times and want to learn how to get into Swedish working life. There is also a large group with foreign background. They get a nice introduction to how the Swedish labour market works. They learn the job at work, so to speak. Most of the jobs here are taught at work. The closure also concerns a number of pharmacists. But we in Dalarna can be pleased that they stay, because as things stand there are plenty of jobs for them. The farmers are a small group, and most jobs are so-called simple jobs – if a job can be simple, but I think that's the term the Social Democratic Government uses. You want a lot of simple jobs. Then I don't understand this when you have the opportunity to manage through owner directives or in other ways so that Falun can retain this business. Here, as I said, it is personal qualities and conditions, not grades and long education, that apply. Madam President, the Minister for Rural Development. I believe in liberalisation. The best thing we've done is the pharmacy liberalisation. But since we have the state-owned company Apoteket AB, the government has a responsibility to ensure that these jobs can be found around Sweden.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-223	Madam President, I would like In 2008 and 2009, decisions were taken to liberalise the pharmacy market. There were consequences. As I said in my previous speech, the bourgeois government was fully aware that Apoteket AB was thus given a completely different way of handling decision-making, which means that a government cannot go in and make decisions on this type of localisation issues. Apoteken is now working in a fully competitive market. That was the consequence of the liberalisation decision that was taken. Today there are 1,392 pharmacies in Sweden. Before the decision, there were fewer. It was 929 pharmacies in July 2009 when the market was liberalised. Yes, there have been more pharmacies, but the new pharmacies do not exist in the Swedish countryside but where there were already many pharmacies. Ann-Britt Ann-Britt still believes in liberalisation and the market, so there is an ideological difference between our parties and our views. I believe that the market will always be where the many people are. But in other parts of our country there may not be many people, and there is not the market in the same way. A clear example of this is the broadband expansion in sparsely populated rural areas. Where the market does not enter, the policy goes in and ensures that there will be resources so that people in Swedish rural areas will also get broadband. This is exactly what they did when they once electrified Sweden. Where the market didn't go in, the community went in and helped. I hear you, Ann-Britt Ann-Britt. You believe in deregulation. Do you also believe in the liberalisation of broadband? Do you think we can get broadband in Swedish rural areas if we leave it to the market? I definitely don't think so. Liberalisation has to be very careful. The liberalisation that has taken place has in many respects reinforced the gap between city and country. Sweden is far too good to be torn apart. We must keep Sweden together.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-230	Madam President, the Minister for Rural Development. I don't like to say someone's wrong. But the Minister for Rural Development is actually wrong. Insjön is a small town south of Rättvik and Leksand. Before liberalisation, there was no pharmacy, but there is now. It is even open on Sundays, which one is grateful for not only in Insjön but in Leksand and Rättvik because it means that these places have also been better served through this pharmacy. So quite correctly, the intervention from the Minister for Rural Affairs was not that it does not open pharmacies in small towns. It was not really the liberalisation that we were going to discuss, but the jobs that I am protecting in my home town. It is about 55 people, most of whom find it difficult to get a job because there are not many easy jobs in the Falun labour market. It is people who are not easy to place on the general labour market; they simply find it difficult to get a job. Now they're worried about what's going to happen. They are established in the resort with families, houses and expenses. They must make everyday life work. I believe that the state must go in and help through its company now that you have one. But the Minister for Rural Development says it's not possible. Okay, but I'm protecting these 55 people who are going to be thrown out into unemployment in a year's time.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-233	Madam President, I would like There has also been a dramatic decrease in the number of pharmacists. The only ones who have left pharmacists are actually Apoteket AB. The new private pharmacies don't. This is also a negative consequence between city and country. The government will never accept that the gap between city and country is further strengthened. This is why, in June 2015, we appointed the Parliamentary Rural Committee – to develop a coherent policy for Swedish rural areas. This countryside has been neglected for a long time by many different governments, by different colours. The period of referral expires on 22 March and I hope that we will receive proposals and comments on the Committee's report. Part of the report where there are concrete proposals concerns state presence. It will be very interesting to hear the referral. There are 75 different proposals for Swedish rural areas that affect almost all policy areas. The Prime Minister has given a special assignment to Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi, who will look at and ensure basic service in our country regardless of where you live. That's important, too. The budget proposal for 2017 shows that the government intends to continue to work to increase the spread of government agencies across the country. It is important that we can work across party boundaries, as we have done within the Parliamentary Rural Committee and also in relation to the national food strategy, to reverse developments so that we can hold Sweden together, not tear it apart.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-238	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked the Minister for the Interior what measures the Government intends to take to ensure that Sweden's residents do not stand without food in a situation where our food imports from the outside were cut off or when domestic transport suffers severe disruption. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that, in the event of a crisis, in the event of increased preparedness and ultimately in the event of war, the civilian population can have access to food and water. Our capabilities in this area will be built on an analysis of today's needs, risks and vulnerabilities, which are not necessarily the same as before. In the event of a crisis or increased preparedness, we shall cooperate as much as possible with our neighbours and other trading partners in order to exchange goods. The government took a major step towards improved preparedness through the bill Defence Policy Focus – Sweden's Defence 2016– 2020( 2014/15:109). It states that planning to build a civil defence adapted to modern conditions will be resumed. It also shows that it is necessary to analyse and plan how the security of supply and the preparedness of food security can be improved in the light of, for example, increased preparedness in the changing world that we have today. The government followed up on the bill by deciding on instructions for civil defence. In accordance with the instructions, an initial report was submitted last June describing ongoing work by the relevant authorities. The next reporting time will shortly be in connection with the submission of the annual report by the authorities. After a special government mission, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency have developed a basic vision for coherent planning of the total defence, and there is a process going on with a large number of activities and projects. The results will gradually provide the government with the basis for further decisions and measures to be taken to strengthen preparedness for increased preparedness. Both private and public actors play important roles in this work. Among the public actors, the Swedish Food Safety Agency has a particularly important role to play, as the Authority has an overall responsibility for coordinating food security emergency and contingency planning and, among other things, leads a private-public consultation group. In order to ensure good food security, increased national production brings benefits. Increasing food production in Sweden is part of the long-term goals of the food strategy agreed by the government together with the bourgeois parties and the Left Party. By increasing Sweden's domestic production of food, vulnerability will also decrease. However, it is not relevant to consider food security only as an isolated phenomenon. Effective food supply depends on inputs such as automotive fuel and fertilisers, processing industry, storage, distribution routes, grocery trade, electricity and the possibility of buying goods with cash or cards. It is therefore not only the availability of food that is important for food security. First of all, we need to look at crisis preparedness from a holistic perspective. With regard to the Government's ambition for Swedish security of supply in the event of a situation where imports of food and supplies are at risk of being restricted, the goal is to ensure the essential functions of society and protect the civilian population.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-247	Madam President, I would like My interpellation I have made to Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman, but the Minister of the Interior has passed on the interpellation to the Minister for Rural Affairs. It is we who are to have this debate here today. At the Central Association of People and Defence Conference in Sälen, the Minister for the Interior was invited to present the government's overall strategy to re-establish civilian preparedness. The Minister for the Interior said, among other things, that the level of self-sufficiency may not be the most important thing and that we are likely to be able to exchange goods with countries in our vicinity. Of course, this reasoning raises serious questions. Is food stocks such a structure that should not exist in future emergency preparedness? Does the government not think that Sweden should plan for a crisis in which we cannot have an extensive trade with the outside world? Madam President, I would like We know from experience that crisis situations often involve difficulties in importing food. Especially difficult can it be to transport food over water. In such a situation, it is only Norway with which we have a significant land connection. Is it neighbouring Norway that will support us in Sweden? That's my question. Is it Norway that the government believes will support the Swedes? Is self-sufficiency a priority for the government – to have a plan for how to support our citizens in a crisis situation?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-252	Madam President, I would like I have to admit that I am somewhat surprised that the alliance politicians have become so extremely involved in crisis preparedness. This is the third time since April that I stand here in Parliament and answer an interpellation on the subject. A few weeks ago, the Minister for the Interior also stood here and answered similar questions. I'm getting a little perplexed. Was there nothing at all on these matters during those eight years? Now the interest has suddenly arisen. How was it, Magnus Oscarsson? We'll prepare for different situations. We should start from realistic scenarios. I trust that our authorities will provide the government and Parliament with relevant factual information on this matter. Expertise makes the assessment that a complete blockade is more unlikely. First of all, we must ensure that we are not cut off from the outside world, including by looking at trade agreements and transport routes from, for example, Norway and Finland, before we start discussing the storage of goods in large warehouses. What the government has done on this issue is that we took a lot of steps forward when we put forward the bill for a defence policy, where we said that we should re-establish civil defence. That is a very big step forward. We have also taken the initiative to start work on the national food strategy. It is another step forward in increasing our level of self-sufficiency. I am pleased that the bourgeois parties were involved in developing the overall objectives and strategic areas. We are also part of a global network, not least with the EU, where we have a lot of cooperation and cooperation agreements. It is also part of our food supply. Whether there is a crisis or not, there are agreements on this. We also have a reinforced Nordic declaration of solidarity that is important in this type of situation. Thus far, we have not experienced any crisis in food security. But there is something to come, and we must, of course, prepare for this. But we also need to have confidence in our authorities and the relevant facts that they deliver to us over time.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-258	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for that. The intervention was addressed to Minister Anders Ygeman because of his reasoning on Folk och Försvar. Our security of supply is good. The food side in particular is under control. Emergency stocks ensure that domestic production can continue even in a crisis situation. Food production security is the basis for society's resilience to crisis. I think these are fantastic words. Unfortunately, these are not words from any government work in Sweden, but from the Finnish Emergency Response Centre. Finland is a very good example. Finland, like Sweden, is a member of the EU, and we are in many ways a brother. Yet we are so different when we think about self-sufficiency. In fact, Finland has a self-sufficiency rate of 80 to 85 per cent. Sweden is down to 40 – 50 percent. I have sometimes thought about how things can be in such different ways in Sweden and Finland. Perhaps an answer was given a few years ago at a gathering. I met an older lady. She told me that she was born in Finland but came to Sweden as a so-called war child during World War II. When she returned to Finland after the war, there was no food. It was completely empty. She told me how troubling the situation was. She was able to tell us what it was like with a crystal clear tone. Unfortunately, in Sweden we seem to have forgotten how it can be. Thankfully, we have lived in peace for over 200 years. Sometimes it feels like we think it's gonna be okay. Unfortunately, no one can tell us what it's like when there's no food to get. Finland is a shining example of a country that knows how to deal with the issue of self-sufficiency. I have a question for the Minister. Sweden's self-sufficiency is down to a bottom level of 40 – 50 percent. What does the Minister think is a reasonable level of self-sufficiency within ten years?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-266	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson brings up Finland. Finland has a significantly higher self-sufficiency rate than Sweden. In fact, Sweden has dramatically reduced its food production over 20 years. Not too long ago, we had an 80% self-sufficiency rate in our country. Today we have a trade deficit on the lives of – listen and be amazed – minus 47 billion. It is clear that this has impaired our ability to provide food in times of crisis. This has meant that many jobs have disappeared, not least in rural Sweden. That is why this government took the initiative to start the discussion on a national food strategy. It is a question of significantly increasing our production of food. I have not set a percentage for this. Nevertheless, I think we should tackle this, and we have agreed that we should substantially increase our self-sufficiency and food production by 2030. If we succeed in this, it will create jobs. The government has recently launched the first part of its action plan for this. As far as possible threats to Sweden are concerned, they are not entirely clear. They're not just territorial. It can be both open and hidden pressure that can affect us. It may be by political, psychological and economic means that pressure is being exerted on our country. That is why we need to carry out thorough analyses. We can't rush straight into World War II models. We can learn from history, but we don't have the answers in history. The answers for the future must be based on the current situation. The solutions may look completely different than they once did. These are new threats. That is why this civil preparedness is extremely important. It is also important that we make a proper analysis of this and have confidence in the authorities responsible for developing these elements. This government is very clear that it should work on this before the defence policy bill. It is clear when we make the national food strategy that we are taking these issues seriously and are going to change the situation in the right direction.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-270	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the discussion we have had. For me and for many around Sweden, this is a big and important issue. When you travel around the country, people say: How could this happen so quickly? Contingencies and so on just disappeared. This was also discussed in the Agenda on Sunday. It disappeared so quickly, and for what good? And what do we have today? So there are many questions to come. I think we need to discuss how this can be improved. I think that sometimes there is a mentality in society that this will probably work out. It's fine, as we say at home in Östergötland. But I think this is much more important than that. Various calculations have been made, and they show that in large cities such as Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö the shelves are empty in the grocery stores after two days. I find that extremely alarming. In smaller cities, it may be a week or ten days before it is empty. Last night I was in Örkelljunga. Then I got a question: How will Sweden's citizens get food in the event of a crisis? This is a big question, I see. The minister wouldn't say a percentage. He just wanted to make a big increase. However, I think, as I said, that we should aim for a higher level of preparedness in ten years' time. A percentage would be interesting to get.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-276	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that Magnus Oscarsson asks the question how this could have happened so quickly. It happened for 20 years. During that time, our food production deteriorated considerably. There is another issue that is directly linked to this, namely our defence, which was much quicker to change. The Reinfeldt 1 government was sitting in this House, I think it was in 2009, and decided to phase out military service, with one vote being overweight. Then it went very quickly, and it obviously has consequences for our preparedness. There's also one thing we're looking at. Food production is very important, and it is important not only from a safety perspective but also from a rural perspective. It is also about jobs and biodiversity. We need a better level of self-sufficiency. We need to produce much more food to make it, not just in the present but in crisis time. If we have a trade deficit of 47 billion, it is clear that increased production would also improve our economy overall and increase the number of jobs in Sweden. This is very important. There are many different activities that need to be done to solve these problems. The authorities have been given clear mandates by this government to come up with proposals that should be based on facts – not alternative facts but real facts – so that we can get to grips with this.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-280	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I have carried out an analysis of how future trade agreements will affect the objectives of the food strategy and what measures I intend to take to ensure that the objectives of the food strategy are not jeopardised. I would like to begin by emphasising that increased trade is an important instrument for economic growth and job creation throughout the country. It is important to recall that trade is the basis for Sweden's successful economic development. The government therefore supports the EU's extensive efforts to negotiate broad and ambitious FTAs while safeguarding the climate, environment, workers' interests and human and animal health. Jens Holm refers to a report prepared by the European Commission on the impact of FTAs on the EU agricultural sector. The report shows a relatively balanced result in which the EU continues to be a major net exporter of food, which benefits employment and farmers' incomes in the EU. Some sectors, such as the dairy and pig sectors, are expected to benefit from more open trade. Other sectors, particularly beef and rice, are expected to face increased import competition. The report shows the impact at EU level. There has been no similar report looking at effects in Sweden alone. Jens Holm has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the objectives of the food strategy are not jeopardised. There is much that can be done to strengthen the competitiveness of the food chain, and we have now taken the first steps in the implementation of the objectives agreed by the government, together with the Left Party and the bourgeois opposition. On 7 February, the Government launched its Food Strategy Action Plan. In this, the Government presents measures for the whole food chain in order to achieve the objectives of the Food Strategy. We point out areas such as regulatory simplification for companies in the food chain, increased exports of food, equivalent control and licensing activities throughout the country, increased organic production and consumption, and research and innovation efforts. I am pleased that Swedish consumers are increasingly appreciating the added value that characterises our food. Swedish added value, such as good animal welfare, low antibiotic use and relatively little environmental and climate impact, makes our food sustainable and safe. These added values are also increasingly being demanded by consumers around the world. This is positive and something we intend to take advantage of by investing in increased exports within the framework of the food strategy. The government will also work to make it easier for Swedish consumers to make informed choices. Through both the government's own efforts and the increased awareness of the importance of sustainably produced food in consumers, both nationally and globally, I am convinced that Swedish food production will increase.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-285	Madam President, I would like I think this is an important debate. The ink has barely dried up the agreement that seven of the eight parties in Parliament have reached regarding a food strategy for Sweden. We in the Left Party welcome the agreement. We see it as a historic opportunity to reverse the trend that has now been going on for a number of decades in Sweden, where we have produced less and less food and have had to import more and more. We also see it as a historic opportunity to produce more sustainable food in Sweden. We have to do this because we know that food production is responsible for both a major environmental impact overall and major climate emissions, not least from the meat and milk sectors. At the same time, through the European Commission, the Swedish Government is negotiating two very comprehensive trade and investment agreements with North America: the TTIP agreement with the US and the CETA agreement with Canada. TTIP is well in the freezer after Donald Trumps's victory, but the CETA agreement is highly topical. Tomorrow the agreement will be debated and possibly clubbed in the European Parliament. All experience shows that allowing food production to enter a free-trade market and removing all possibilities to protect domestic production will benefit it to a large extent. There will be increased competition and probably also lower prices, but it will affect small farmers and those who have high ambitions in the field of environment, public health or animal welfare. We can see it for ourselves here in Sweden. As has been pointed out in the previous interpellation debate, today in Sweden we produce only half of the food consumed in our country. Before we joined the EU, we produced almost 80% of all food consumed in Sweden ourselves. This is a direct result of our being part of the EU's internal market, where full competition prevails. Now we are going to have a similar market with the whole of North America, at least with Canada, it is planned. In many countries there is an intensive discussion on this. One is rightly concerned about what will happen to one's own food production and with the higher ambitions one has in, for example, the environment. Sven-Erik-Erik, I know that you have twice debated a report produced by the European Commission on the impact of these trade agreements on the possibilities of European food production. As you say in your reply to me, there is little concern in some areas, while competition in other areas can be very tough and production reduced. It may be more difficult to maintain the standard that we have today. That is why this report has also been very much debated at the Council of Ministers meetings, as I understand it. The European Parliament has produced a review of the expected effects of a trade and investment agreement with the United States, which states quite clearly that this will mean downward harmonisation, i.e. that we will be forced to lower our environmental standards and levels. I would therefore like to ask: has the government not developed a strategy and an analysis of how the ambitions, the intentions, of the food strategy will be affected by these trade and investment agreements?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-292	Madam President, I would like No, trade agreements will not result in lower levels of protection for either health or the environment. This is something that the Commission has clearly stated when these issues have been discussed. Only EU legislation can change that type of decision on such issues. I want to assure you, Jens Holm, that the times these issues have been debated, Sweden has always put forward these views. It is a question of having good animal welfare – we must not lose sight of it in any trade agreements. We will have a high standard and reduce the use of antibiotics. I can mention that when the TTIP agreement was discussed – now it is on ice – it was actually Sweden that brought in the fact that this issue of antibiotic resistance had to be included in the discussions with the US, and we received a great deal of support for that view. The Commissioner also took it with him in the further negotiations. Within the framework of the agreement that we have negotiated with Canada, there is cooperation on animal welfare and the reduction of antibiotic use. There is therefore no waiving in these areas. Then I find it very gratifying that we agree that we should increase our food production, which has decreased over 20 years. There are many things that have disappeared, not least from rural and rural jobs, as we have gone this way and had a trade deficit of as much as 47 billion in food production. That is also why I welcome the fact that we have been able to agree on the food strategy with seven parliamentary parties. It is unique that such an agreement has been made, and it should last until 2030. The Government has developed its action plan to make it now also a workshop. It is part of that the government has an action plan, but the whole civil society, the industry, must also engage in order for this to be good and for us to increase our production. The government has allocated 1 billion to work with the action plan, and it consists of a total of 40 different points. We adopted the first package of measures last week, on 7 February. We will adopt the second package in March and the third package in the autumn. I can mention a few things that are contained in the package that we adopted last week on the action plan. One of them is the keyhole tag. We have had it for a long time, and it has served people well. We want the Swedish Food Administration to develop much more. It is about sustainable and healthy consumption, and it is very good that we can develop the key hole label. Another thing is to reduce food waste. There we have international commitments, and we must do this in Sweden as well. Equivalent food controls so that we get equivalence across the country are another proposal. It is very different today, and we need to upgrade our skills in this regard. Cooperation forum for increased exports is very important. Exports are important for Sweden regardless of which industry we are talking about. Without export, we cannot build a Welfare Sweden; exports have in many respects contributed to the welfare country that Sweden is. So this job is in progress, and I would like to assure Jens Holm that we will not be on the lazy side when it comes to making the food strategy a reality.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-303	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, all experience shows that if we place food in a free trade area, it is the big drive that benefits. You might think that is good if you want cheaper foods with low environmental standards. However, if, as we say in the food strategy, we are to have high levels of environmental and animal protection, at least I am a little worried. I am surprised that the government has not done and does not intend to analyse how these agreements can affect the intentions of the food strategy. I understand that, and I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs if that is the case. Such analyses have been carried out at European level, to which I referred. There are two reports, one from the Commission and one from the European Parliament, to which I refer in my interpellation, and it actually says that there is a clear risk that environmental standards will be adjusted downwards. I am thinking of such things as the routine use of hormones and antibiotics in livestock farming in North America, the dipping of chickens into chlorine to remove bacteria, and the fact that there are far more chemical inputs and chemicals in general than we have in Europe. I am not saying that we will be imposed on these methods and chemicals, but, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, is there not a risk that, when we open our markets to all these products, it will be just as in the European Parliament's analysis of the so-called TTIP agreement that we will have an adaptation downwards in environmental standards? This is also what our Swedish chemical inspection has noted when the Government's expert authority in this area has asked what they think about the possibility of pursuing an ambitious chemicals policy with these agreements. They say that as the agreements are formulated now, there is an obvious risk of downward adjustment. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht : Where are the preparedness, analyses and reports of the Swedish government? If you go into this without any preparedness, I am afraid that in a few years' time we will be producing an even smaller amount of sustainable food in Sweden. I am also surprised that you say in your reply to me that it is gratifying that Swedish consumers increasingly appreciate the added value that characterises our food. But we have seen a trend where we have gone from 80 percent food production in Sweden down to 50 percent. Yes, the Swedish people think it is good with animal welfare and the environment and so on, but honest talk is being produced less and less of the food consumed in Sweden here in Sweden. Now we shall have this logic at a transatlantic level. If nothing is done, this will only continue to affect Swedish production. I'm afraid so. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht may be able to tell the Assembly in here which chemicals and which chemical inputs Sweden and the EU have banned within the framework of the so-called CETA agreement to be debated in the European Parliament this week and then come up for approval in Sweden this year. Can you give an example of any single chemical for which you have received a ban under the CETA agreement? There are a number of other critical dimensions to these agreements too, such as the fact that large companies will be able to sue states, but states will not be able to sue large companies. What does the Swedish Government think about this? Is that not a complicated fact when we want to produce more food in a sustainable way?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-313	Mr President, I would like to I would remind Jens Holm that these are not bilateral agreements but agreements between the EU and third countries. It is the regulations that apply in the European Union, and I told you in my previous speech how we affect them and also what guarantees the Commissioner has given. We will not reduce health and environmental requirements. That's it. As far as the analyses are concerned, the report is flawed in that only the agricultural sector is being dealt with. You don't look at the whole thing. I have also said this at the Council of Ministers. With regard to the Mercosur agreement, for example, 200 Swedish companies trading in those countries are affected, in completely other sectors that are not at all highlighted. You have to look at the whole picture when you look at how a trade agreement can affect a country or an association like the EU. There's actually a flaw there. There have been no changes to the EU acquis as a result of trade agreements. It's not like that. It is also important that we see the importance of Sweden being able to export food, especially to third countries. We have succeeded well; we have ensured that we have a Agriculture Council in Beijing. We have also increased our food exports there by as much as 32%. We have now developed a food strategy in which we say that exports are important. Then it is also important that we monitor this over time. The rural ministers who are given the task in the future must also work with exports, so that we do not conclude and say that trade agreements are not good. There is increased protectionism in the world; it is clearly pronounced by some large countries. Don't fall into that trap, Jens Holm! This trap can pose major problems for developing countries that also need to enter new markets.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-319	Mr President, I would like to I asked a number of questions, but I don't think I got answers to them. I hope to get answers to them in this last turn. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is right that it is the European Commission that is negotiating on behalf of the Member States. But Europe is all of us countries. We have the chance to influence Europe. Sweden's role in this context seems to be just pushing for more and more trade and more and more investment. But one stands very little for the environment, animal welfare, public health and so on. I can tell the Minister that a little over a year ago, a large Canadian company called Gabriel Resources – they made money from oil and coal – considered that they had been mistreated by the Romanian Government. They want to open a mine there but cannot do so because the government and Parliament in Romania have voted against it. Now the company has sued the Romanian state for USD 4 billion because they are not allowed to open the mine. USD 4 billion is about half of Romania's entire health budget for a year. Romania says that it wants to be able to produce food in that area instead of opening a mine there. They want to preserve large parts of the area because it is a beautiful and scenic area. However, the company can sue Romania because there is an investment clause in an agreement. There is a risk that we can be sued in the same way by large companies if we agree to these agreements. Investment clauses are included in both TTIP and CETA. The understanding of whether it is non-existent with the Swedish Government. If we are to produce more sustainable food, we must also be able to criticise the agreements and make them better or not adopt them at all.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-325	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say once again that Sweden is affecting the EU very strongly towards sustainability in food production. In the 1990s, when we joined, we spoke in the European context about the risks associated with the use of antibiotics. No one listened to it. When you talk about it today, many people listen, and they also reinforce how important it is to work with these issues. There has been a huge change, thanks to Sweden's action in this area. I haven't been on the Councils of Ministers for that long, over two years. Among other things, I have mentioned animal welfare. We have put in place an EU animal welfare platform. It has happened in quite a short time, Jens Holm. They listen to us, and we influence. As far as chemicals are concerned, it is the Trade Minister who has the overall picture. I haven't. I know that the Minister for Trade has replied to Jens Holm in this House with regard to investment protection. Those discussions must Jens Holm bring the Minister for Trade. But the answers have already been given to him. This concerns our food strategy. I think it is important that we continue to work to increase food production in Sweden, in a sustainable way. We have great opportunities to do so. Sweden is the world leader in sustainable food. We have the world's best animal care and the world's best rules for animal husbandry. We therefore have every opportunity to increase our production in a sustainable and good way.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-329	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked the Minister for the Environment whether the Minister intends to take measures to ban bottom trawling in our protected sea areas and whether the Minister intends to take measures to establish protected areas that are completely fishing-free. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Certain fishing practices, such as bottom trawling, can adversely affect the conservation of species and habitats. In Sweden, the county administrative boards are responsible for the management of our protected areas. This means that it is the county boards that are responsible for analysing and pointing out when there is a need to regulate fishing in marine protected areas. The analysis is carried out on the basis of the purpose of site protection and the conservation objectives of the area. The Maritime and Water Authority, after consulting the County Administrative Boards, has assessed that in a first phase it is necessary to regulate fishing in six marine protected areas outside the so-called trawl line. This then falls within the framework of the EU's common fisheries policy. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management reports annually its work on conservation measures in marine protected areas to the Government. The Authority shall also submit a request for action when identifying conservation measures falling within the scope of the fisheries policy. The decision to regulate fisheries in these areas is currently usually taken by the European Commission following a proposal from all the Member States concerned with fishing rights in the area. In June 2016, Sweden, together with Denmark and Germany, submitted a proposal for fisheries regulations in the marine Natura 2000 area of Bratten in the Swedish economic zone. The regulations were adopted by the European Commission in September, and from January this year there are provisions restricting both trawling and other fishing activities in the area. The Bratten is thus the first protected area where Sweden has introduced fisheries regulations under the common fisheries policy. It is also the first marine protected area across the EU where fisheries regulations have been introduced with reference to the EU Marine Environment Directive, for areas and habitats protected by the OSPAR Convention. The County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management continue to develop proposals for fisheries regulations in other marine protected areas where there is a need. Protection of marine areas is a government priority and it is important that the protected areas are well managed and regulated so that sensitive species and habitats are protected against negative impacts. With regard to Jens Holm's second question – on the establishment of protected areas that are completely free of fishing – the government has recently received an evaluation from the Maritime and Water Authority of the fisheries-free areas previously set up to protect fish stocks. That report is currently under preparation in the Government Office.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-336	Mr President, I would like to Our seas are home to fish, to marine mammals, to birds, to corals, to reefs – yes, there lives a swarm of different species. Sometimes you get the feeling that just because things happen under water is less important than what happens on land. Of course, that's not the case. We know that there is a great deal to be done to make it generally a good ecological status in our seas and watercourses. We have environmental objectives such as the sea in balance and the sea coast and archipelago. We are not achieving these environmental objectives today. We have acceded to the Species and Habitats Directive and to the Marine Environment Regulation. There are also fairly far-reaching demands that we are not meeting today. A strategy is simply to protect more areas at sea. I think some good things have been done. But when you look at how well the marine protected areas – the nature reserve at sea – work, at least I bounce to a little bit. Bottom trawling is the main principle and not just the exception. Bottom trawling is perhaps the most destructive fishing method. We return to land and imagine a nature reserve, a vast forest. If one were to trawl there and devastate every tree and everything that grows there with large heavy trawls, it works much like when the trawls are pulled along the seabeds. Some bottoms do quite well, other bottoms do very much damage. In large and significant nature reserves there is bottom trawling. This applies, for example, to northern Bjärekusten, Kosterhavet National Park, Marstrand, Stora Kornö, Svartberget, Tofta, Vinga, Weather Islands– yes, I could continue and make the list very long. That is why I asked in my interpellation whether the government is prepared to ban bottom trawling at least in the protected marine areas. But I didn't get an answer from the Minister for Rural Affairs. I feel like he wants to hide behind the authorities. But, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, if you want to impose a ban, you can give such a mission to our authorities. I would also like to ask the Minister whether more fishing-free areas are needed. There is such a fishing-free area in Kattegat and in a few other places. Evaluations have shown that these fishing-free areas are incredibly important. They are nursery rooms for fish and a variety of other species so that they can grow up. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht! Is the government working to establish more fishing-free areas in our Swedish waters and seas?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-345	Mr President, I would like to The aim of protection is to control which species and habitats need to be protected and how they are affected. This must be taken into account as a whole where fishing opportunities exist. Then I actually rely on the authorities. I don't take on the expert role Jens Holm now does. I trust that the proposals and efforts that come from our authorities are balanced. Then, of course, there are ways of taking the necessary measures. They can look a little different over time. We have also provided funds for the authorities to work on these issues. The government has given priority to this. I cannot say that further si or so many areas will be fishing-free or that there and there you will end up with bottom trawling. I must listen to the expertise of the authorities, which is a very good piece of expertise, I claim. But if Jens Holm feels he's better then it's his thing. We are looking at the report that has been submitted and see how we can move forward. It is a priority for the government. I cannot say anything more about the ban on bottom trawling.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-350	Mr President, I would like to When I wrote my interpellation, I addressed it to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog because I wanted to discuss the environmental aspect of our seas. But she handed over the interpellation to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Perhaps that is why the answer is a little scarce. I would like to remind Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht that when environmental measures were taken in the area of Bratten, a significant area was protected from fishing. Both Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and Karolina Skog then sent out a press release stating that this was the government's policy. It was also said that it intended to move forward with this policy and protect more marine areas from fishing, if I understood it correctly. Sven-Erik-Erik Buch Buch If you could take credit politically for this a few months ago, I think it's a little strange that here and now you're just hiding behind our authorities. The Swedish Government should reasonably be able to have an opinion on whether it is good to bottom trawl in all the marine nature reserves that I have listed and another thirty marine reserves. There are actually as many as it is about. If the government has no opinion on bottom trawling, which has the most far-reaching and extensive impact on marine environments, then I think that the government does not take this issue seriously, and that is worrying in itself. Then I would like to raise the issue of totally fishing-free areas. For example, there is a fishing-free area in Kattegat that is shared between Sweden and Denmark. I know that there is now great pressure from Denmark to open up the area to fisheries. The report by the Council of Seas and Waters, to which the Minister refers, says on p. 37 that it is incredibly important that this area continues to be protected and that it continues to be a fishing-free area. It has had an incredible impact on the stocks, marine plants and other things that are growing in that area. Again, I would like to ask the question: does the government not think that fishing-free areas are good? Does the government not think that there needs to be more of them both on the surface and in number? Now that our expert authority in this area recommends the Swedish government to protect the fishing-free area, we want to know from the responsible minister: Will you do so? Is that the policy that you pursue against the Danes in these negotiations?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-357	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm is very alert to remind me of one thing, than the other, and I would also like to remind Jens Holm that this government relies on facts from expert authorities, not on alternative facts. We claim that we have very good expert authorities who can make assessments that will enable us to make informed decisions. It is important to be based on facts, not on alternative facts. There is a clear process for this. I would like to say a few words about Kattegat too. There is, of course, a discussion going on. Sweden and Denmark do not have exactly the same view, but we need to agree on this in order to move forward. The debate is ongoing, and I have no reason to go into it in detail today in this House. There is therefore a clear process of regulating and protecting areas. The brat is a good example. We have reached an agreement there after a long discussion between the countries and have reached a decision on protection there. I see the protection that has been put in place there as good and well-balanced; that is my message. The decision is based on the expertise that has given us advice on all of this. There are, of course, other things that we need to proceed with in terms of protection. That's it. However, as I said in my previous speech, I am not prepared today to say exactly what we will do in the areas of equal treatment. This is a government priority, and we have committed funds. The authorities are working on these things, and in the not too distant future there will certainly be new decisions and proposals in this area.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-361	Mr President, I would like to I am surprised that the government is not more concerned about the large-scale bottom trawling in 40 marine reserves and Natura 2000 areas. You don't seem interested in doing so much about it. I wish the Minister good luck in the negotiations with the Danes. It would be extremely unfortunate if the government were to turn and open up the area of Kattegat to fishing again. Once again, I have to draw a parallel to the process around Bratten on the west coast, where bottom trawling and fishing are generally prohibited in fairly significant parts. This was an entirely politically driven process, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. It was you in the government who were running this. I think you were working with the Germans. You also raised this with the European Union. But as I said, it was a political initiative from you and the Minister for the Environment through a press release a few months ago. You were glad that this had now really happened. If you could do that in that area, I wonder again why you cannot do the same in more areas. It was incredibly important to protect the Bratten area from bottom trawling. Why are you hiding behind the authorities? You know that you as a politician can push the issue, even if it is authorities that produce data and other things. We as politicians can push forward the political process, and I miss this with this government.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-365	Mr President, I would like to The fact is that the proposal concerning the Bratten area came from our authorities. These are the facts. What Jens Holm just stood and said are alternative facts. All of this is not that simple. Providing protection is an important issue, and the government has high ambitions. However, we rely heavily on the expertise that exists on these issues. Suggestions are coming. It is the county government that, together with the Maritime and Water Authority, has the task of dealing with such issues. We must then discuss them with other stakeholders, such as the countries with fishing rights in the areas. This may take time, and it may also cause the result not to be exactly what we want. However, we must have such a process. The Bratten model is a very good example where it became good and where dialogue has been conducted in the right way.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-367	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I intend to work towards the whole high-speed road being planned and expanded in stages or coordinated. Erik Ottoson has also asked me if it is my view that the construction of high-speed trains in Sweden is socially profitable. In the infrastructure bill adopted by the Riksdag last December, the Government has stated its ambition to complete new high-speed trains so that Stockholm and Gothenburg and Malmö are better connected with modern and sustainable communications. The government also says in the bill that the expansion of new main roads should take place in a cost-effective manner and at a pace that the economy allows. The infrastructure proposal shall set out a focus and financial framework for further planning and not a concrete deployment strategy. Proposals for the concrete implementation of measures are sought in the next step. The Government will commission the Swedish Transport Administration to propose a cross-road national plan for the transport system for the next planning period, and according to its directives, Sweden will present an expansion strategy for new main roads by 31 December 2017. The Government intends to establish the national plan in spring 2018. The construction of new main roads is about long time horizons and affects the state's budget over a long period of time. The Government believes that new main rail lines would strengthen the competitiveness of the railways and improve the conditions for work commuting. We need to continue to find out more about what the development of new high-speed rail lines can mean, how we can reduce uncertainty and building costs, and how we can have good control of costs and at the same time get as much from the goods as possible. At every opportunity, we need to balance different needs with each other so that we have as much access as possible for as much of the population and business as possible at the lowest cost to taxpayers as possible.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-371	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer, although I do not perceive that it analyses or addresses the questions I asked in my interpellation. The issue of roll-out of high-speed trains has been analysed and examined in several stages. There's a negotiation going on. My party has drawn conclusions from the things that have come along the road. We note that, as things stand, it is not economically profitable or even justifiable to proceed with such a large-scale roll-out of high-speed trains in a country like Sweden at the costs that may arise. In view of this, I would like to put the question again to the Government: does she and the Government think that making this extension is socially viable? The calculations we have seen so far show that this is not the case. It may of course be that the Government is sitting on additional information that the rest of us do not have. In such cases, it would be interesting to know about it. Is it socially profitable, or is it not socially profitable? Just as the Government also mentioned, the Government also says that the main railway development should take place in a cost-effective manner at the rate allowed by the economy. If this means that it happens in stages, as it almost inevitably does, it becomes more expensive. According to the directives that have been passed on, it says that it should be done at the rate that the economy allows. This means that it will be multi-stage and therefore also more expensive. There is no need to ask the Finnish Transport Administration about this. The competence to draw such a conclusion is available in the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Government. This is a political slogan that has very far-reaching consequences. When one expands gradually it also becomes considerably more expensive, it becomes worse system benefits over a long period of time and there are increased costs when connecting the multi-stage solutions. That brings me to the next question, which there is possibly reason to analyse. Should the extensions Mölnlycke– Bollebygd and Ostlänken be regarded as the first stages of a project that the government does not even know if it will get through in Parliament in the long term? So we are now spending billions of taxpayers' money on setting a standard on these two rail routes in order to achieve a standard that it may not be any of in the long term. It is about money in the 10-billion-dollar class for each project, which there is uncertainty as to whether or not it will happen at all. In the past, the Government and I have discussed the difference between driving in 320 and 250, especially on the Ostlink but also on the Mölnlycke route – Bollebygd. She has then passed the question to Trafikverket. It is a very cool delegation to the Swedish Transport Administration of x billions that you only release to the responsible authority. The government will act as some kind of delivery company for tax funds, which I find very uncomfortable. Perhaps the Government can think a little bit about this and ask itself whether it is really reasonable to deal with infrastructure projects like that.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-378	Mr President, I would like to My starting point with regard to high-speed rail, as with other infrastructure development in this country, is what is needed. When it comes to rail in Sweden, the needs are very extensive. It is a question of the need for substantial renovations and improvements in quality and the maintenance of the plant we already have. That's where the government's shooting at funds right now. We have done so since we took office, and we substantially increase the framework for this in the next national plan. In fact, however, it is also a question of the fact that we are already seeing a fairly significant shortage of capacity in the Swedish rail network. This is my starting point when I decide what I think about high-speed rail expansion. Then you can choose to expand existing distances at lower speeds or choose to expand with future technologies and a new route that will give us new connections and enable us to bind new geographical areas into new labour market regions. When Trafikverket has looked at these two options and compared them, it has been shown that the socio-economic calculation gives roughly the same results for both. True, there is slightly less money in the second option, but the ratio is almost exactly the same. According to Trafikverket, there are also likely benefits that will be added when developing the high-speed rail system but that are not fully captured by the calculation. The starting point is that there is a need. The starting point is not whether we should have a high-speed track or not. The starting point is that we have a need for capacity and a lack of capacity in the rail system. How are we going to address this in the best way to ensure that we have a future-proof railway system in Sweden? At least somewhere it will be very clear to me which direction to go: we will have a high-speed track to enable fast passenger traffic and also free up capacity for slower traffic on existing main roads. The question of whether I think it is socially profitable is rather uninteresting; in other words, it is an issue that one might think of. M an has to put out a mission to those who can count on it, and then they come back with an answer to the question whether it is socially profitable. The calculation models used today show that it is not economically viable. But the question must also be asked: What is the alternative cost of not expanding? It is not free to ensure the traffic of the trains that need to go, with both freight and passenger traffic, and risk that they will simply not be driven at all. So we need to add capacity. I still think most of them are convinced of that. In fact, there are also many Moderates who still embrace the idea of new high-speed tracks in Sweden, especially in those parts of the country where it would have a very positive impact on the possibility of living in one place and going to college or working in another place. It is not only the rapid end-point traffic that is interesting here, but it is at least as much about getting new regional connections and connecting new places into new labour market regions, making it more attractive to run businesses and more attractive to live. In parenthesis, Norrköping already notice very clearly that their housing building is taking off, even though the track is not even in place. Just the hope and expectation of a new railway increases land prices and housing construction. There is a huge potential here for development, not only of the railways, but also of labour markets and housing construction, and that is my starting point when I discuss high-speed rail.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-384	Mr President, I would like to It is very interesting to hear the Government's reflections on the issue of economics. According to her, the question of whether or not building high-speed rail is socially economically viable is uninteresting. I think it clarifies a lot about how this is to be seen and how the government has prioritised here. I guess that's one thing. The second is, where is the money? The government says that this should be done at the rate allowed by the economy. This also relates to what the Government says about increased capacity, something that, according to the Government and many others, possibly including myself, there is a great need for. If it is the case that you put all the money that will be in future national plans and expect that there will be a supply of funds at about the same speed as before, high-speed lines between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö will be able to be completed by 2050 at the earliest. It's the same year I turn 60, and now I'm 27. I do not know if the Government feels that this is the great solution to the capacity shortage that we currently have on the railways. The Government says that it may not be economically profitable to make other investments in the railways either, and that the alternative costs should be looked at. That is the de facto case. But it is wrong to compare with the fact that the transport or the journey is not carried out at all, as the Government says; instead, it may possibly take place in a different way, perhaps with a train at a different speed on another track or with some other form of means of transport. Then we can enter into an environmental policy debate, me and the Government, but at least let us agree that whatever means of transport you have is the objective that it should be done in the most climate-neutral and environmentally friendly way possible. The answer to the question as to whether or not this is going to happen in stages still shines with its absence. But this is crucial to how much it will cost. We already know that. The Swedish Transport Administration does not need to tell us that, but the Government can relate to that already now. In doing so, she should also be able to give an answer. Will this happen in stages? If so, how is this increase in costs expected to be met in the financing? The burning point will be: Will the Government and the Government allow funding with borrowed money that we do not know where they come from, as the Swedish negotiation proposes, or will it fund this like any other infrastructure project that the state is the principal of and ensure that the money is on the table when it is also to be paid? These are fairly important questions of principle about how we are going to expand our infrastructure. There is, of course, room for a much greater philosophical debate on this if you think it is important to land in how we should look at the transport system and our transport policy at all. But the crying situation here and now is whether this government intends to pledge the tax money of future generations to a project that sounds very good but may not add the benefits it had actually hoped for. We need efficient transport even now and by 2050, not just after 2050. I think it is a very important question for us to discuss how it should be done, instead of discussing how we might possibly be able to create high-speed trains within a time perspective that neither I nor the Government can see with money that actually does not exist.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-390	Mr President, I would like to You hear what you want to hear. What I said, of course, was not that the socio-economic analyses are uninteresting. What I said was that it's uninteresting if I think one or the other, and I stand by it. These are, of course, huge questions. I would just like to remind Erik Ottoson that the Swedish negotiation, originally called the construction of Sweden, was not set up by this government. It was the then government that did it. During great pomp and lavishness and with noise and bång it was said that Sweden would now start the preparations for building high-speed tracks and that one should be appointed a negotiating person for this purpose. It is also the case that both the two routes mentioned by Erik Ottoson in the debate, Ostlänken and Mölnlycke– Bollebygd, are found as high-speed tracks in the current national plan, and it was also the previous government that decided on them. If there are comments today that these two routes are planned for high-speed services, then it is not for this government to be addressed, but for the government that was responsible in 2014 when the national plan was adopted. It is also the case that, if a different standard were to be decided afterwards, this would mean that we might need to go into a completely different corridor with major delays as a result. As Erik Ottoson rightly points out, we need new capacity here and now. Of course, that need will be largely met by small measures: bypass tracks, meeting tracks, extended platforms and so on. These are therefore rather small efforts which nevertheless create capacity in the existing system. But in the longer term we also need to plan for a substantial extension of the rail system, if we believe and think that the railway should play an important role in the transport system in the future Sweden. I think so, because it is a climate-smart and efficient way of transporting large quantities of people and also goods, especially certain types of goods. So I see that the railways have a future. But then we must also take responsibility, not only for the economy of future generations, but also indeed for the opportunities for future generations to live and live and transport themselves and their goods throughout our country. I do not think anyone can shake up funding for investments that are 15 to 20 years ahead. I am quite convinced that no government would be able to do so. So the discussion about where the money is to be collected is the same as for everything in front of us. I think Erik Ottoson knows how the planning process for infrastructure is done. Every four years, the Riksdag makes a decision on a proposal that specifies the direction and scope, and on this follows an action plan that is eventually established in a national plan that the Government takes a position on. This takes place at intervals of four years and the plan covers 12 years. This means that everything beyond that horizon is unknown terrain. However, this government is very clear that we have the ambition to build high-speed rail, but this should be done in a way that does not remove all other needs in the transport sector. We will ensure that we do so in a financially responsible manner and in a way that the needs of the rest of the country allow. I think that is a wise way of dealing with this big issue. Just saying no, having said yes at first and having said no before, does not inspire confidence.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-398	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start with that the Government began by pointing out: that it was an alliance government that set up Sweden's negotiations. Yes, a negotiator and investigator were appointed to see if it was a good idea. So we have not given any promise that this will be built on a certain date, but we have appointed a negotiator to arrive at a result of the negotiations. It is politically irresponsible to accept only whatever comes, even if it turns out to be a poor outcome of negotiations. I don't know if that's what the government has in mind. Since the start of the hearing, there has been quite a lot of new data and new information on the benefits and costs involved. To then as a politician just sit still in the boat and not draw any conclusions from this can also be termed irresponsible. It is a problem if you relate to politics and economic realities like that. I also think it is very important that the railways in Sweden develop. I'm a train enthusiast and think it's one of the nicest things on earth. But it has very little to do with the political realities. The Government says that there will be major delays if, for example, the Ostlink project is to be re-designed – yes, it would mean major delays for the start date. However, according to the latest information from the Finnish Transport Administration, which may be available, the date of departure of the first train will not be delayed at all. It may be worth considering whether you can save 20 or 10 or just 1 billion on something like that. I think that care should be taken to mortgage the resources of future generations. This is exactly what the Government says: At best, this could be the case in 20 to 30 years' time. Then it is the political generation that will make the decision. We're not here to build air castles now, which can fall down like a pancake tomorrow.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-403	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I do not have the directive for the construction of Sweden, but it is clear to read that the negotiating officer's task is to prepare for the expansion of high-speed rail in Sweden. It does not say that it should be investigated whether it is a good idea, but the clearly stated purpose of the negotiation was to move forward. This is also reflected in the fact that two named sections of the national plan are identified as the first parts of a high-speed system. Then the Moderates have changed, and you can do that sometimes. But don't make it sound like you were never really for! It's possible you weren't, but at least that's what you said outwardly. As I said, there is much to do in the transport system in Sweden. There are major shortcomings in many areas, and not least the maintenance of the railways is seriously neglected. We need to deal with that. We need to get to grips with that now. But one cannot relate to the future so that one should just sit with your arms crossed and wait for another generation to take responsibility. Erik Ottoson and I and everyone else here and you who may listen should be very happy that previous generations did not think in the same way, because then there would not have been much infrastructure built in this country. A hugely important infrastructure measure, namely the Öresund Bridge, was planned for a long time and discussed for decades. It is difficult to imagine what the Öresund region would have been like today if someone had not taken the difficult decision before us. I believe that we as politicians also have a responsibility to build for the future so that future generations have not only money in the treasury but also a functioning society.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-408	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me the reasons for the decision that the parliamentary committee that will carry out a review of the monetary policy framework and the Riksbank Act will present its results only in 2019. The background to this investigation is an announcement from the Riksdag. In June 2016, the Government was invited to set up a committee to review the Monetary Policy Framework and the Riksbank Act. The Committee on Finance's report pointed out that it is important that the investigation is parliamentary and that it has a broad approach. Part of the Committee's mission is to investigate the legal conditions and forms of cash supply and cash handling, and in particular the Riksbank's responsibility in these matters. However, the mission of the investigation is very broad and comprehensive. An investigation period of two years is reasonable in order to ensure that the investigation's proposals are sound and drawn up with the broadest possible political consensus. However, I share Sten Bergheden's view of the challenges posed by the rapidly declining use of cash and cash in Sweden, especially for rural areas. The County Administrative Boards shall assess each year whether society's needs for basic payment services are met, and if not, they shall initiate and implement support and development efforts with a view to improving access to basic payment services in those places and rural areas where the needs are not met by the market. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has the resources and the task, together with the County Administrative Board in Dalarna County and the Swedish Growth Agency, to provide support to the county administrative boards in their work on designing and implementing various initiatives. Since 2012, the county administrative boards have been working with regionally adapted solutions, including payment service agents. State aid to these payment service providers is managed by the county administrative boards and regulated by the State Aid Regulation for the provision of basic payment services. The county administrative boards also work closely with Sparbankernas Riksförbund and the Swedish Bank Association on these issues. In addition to these measures and the issues that the Parliamentary Committee will highlight, there is an ongoing discussion with the banking sector about their responsibility for a functioning cash and payment system throughout the country.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-413	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, although I think that two and a half years is a long time to investigate an issue that has been on the table for a very long time. Since autumn 2014, the government and the minister have been responsible for how the country is governed and managed. Nevertheless, the Minister has done nothing to reverse the negative trend now taking place with the closure of bank accounts and the removal of cash management both in rural areas and in smaller towns. I assume the Minister sees the problem. But instead of acting, the Minister and the government have crawled up in the gallery and are sitting still today watching as developments continue. Parliament has clearly told the government to review the monetary policy framework and the Riksbank Act. This was done in June 2016. Not until the turn of the year 2016/ 17 the investigation was set up. In addition, the Government has had two years to act since the 2014 elections but has chosen not to do anything until the Riksdag set its foot down and requested this from the Government. The investigation should not be completed until summer 2019. You heard me right, audience: summer 2019! It should last for two and a half years, and then it may take a few more years to prepare it before it lands in any form of regulatory change or improvement. Mr President, I would like to A snail may be perceived as a speed wonder in comparison with the government's pace of work on the matter. While the issue is under way in the Government Office, the problems for people in rural areas and in our smaller cities continue. Our elders can't go to the bank. They can't deposit and withdraw cash even though they have a bank account. They cannot collect their pension, and they cannot withdraw their money if they want to give a penny to their children and grandchildren. Our disabled people find it difficult to deal with the situation with only digital money. Our companies are forced to travel miles to deposit their day funds and money from fleamarkets and business activities in rural areas that have to come to the bank instead of staying at home in the company or in private homes. The Green Party is working on other issues to reduce travel, but this reduction in cash handling has contributed to increasing travel. Now every company has to get to a cash point, which can be three or four miles away, to leave its daily cash register. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister is: Why has the Minister been waiting for two years from 2014 to start any work? And again, why should it take two and a half years to investigate this so that it will not be finished until summer 2019? This means that when the proposal is presented we may have changed both the government and prime minister in this country after the 2018 elections. Mr President, I would like to My questions to the Minister are: Does the Minister think that cash should be used as a means of payment in Sweden? Does the Minister think that all banks should receive cash? Does the Minister think that all banks should be able to hand out cash? Does the Minister intend to do something to facilitate this during the investigation period?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-421	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Sten Bergheden for raising an important issue. It concerns something that I appreciate and which we are working intensively on. Then I can be somewhat surprised by the high tone that Sten Bergheden uses in the debate. We note that we have had a government led by Sten Bergheden's party, especially at the Ministry of Finance, which for eight years was responsible for the matter. I cannot remember that there was a proposal for a legislative change during the eight years that Sten Bergheden's party was responsible for the issues. The parable at the snail may rather fall back on his party, the Moderates, for apparently they did not act at the time to make any legislative changes. We have already done that on the part of this government. Now comes a study that will look at the legislative issues. The legislation that regulates these issues has been in place since the end of 2006/ 07. It was then developed in broad agreement, and the basic understanding is that it is market players who have the main responsibility for the payment system and who will ensure that it works throughout the country. However, the State can go in and complement those areas where the private market is unable to provide sufficient cash supply and a sufficiently well functioning payment system. It was not an issue then, and the previous government sat for eight years without amending this basic legislation. I must therefore say that I am quite surprised by Sten Bergheden's high tone on this issue. I can't quite see it's justified. Some of the claims made by Sten Bergheden that the government has not acted are also not true. We have acted, and we have acted in many areas. We have provided funds to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and to the county administrative boards in order for them to be able to go in with accompanying measures. We have also increased the number of payment service providers in large parts of the country, which complements the activities of private operators. We have consistently and on a number of occasions pressed on the banks and demanded that they take responsibility for the issues. Even there a lot happens. For example, they have taken responsibility for expanding the ATM system and acquiring more of both ATMs and ATMs. We have continued communication with the banks, and we stress that they must be better at providing their customers with the payment services that customers want. We will continue to have these contacts, and we will be clear from the government that we expect action from the banking sector. So the government has far from sat still on the issues. We have been active – far more active than the previous government was, we can see. Now we have a legislative change under way through the investigation that has been set up. The parliamentary parties sitting there will have the opportunity to come up with well-founded and elaborate proposals. In addition, there is time to agree on the issues and to get a consensus, which I think is important. These must be issues on which we work consistently and which are not torn up depending on which government takes office after the next, or for that matter the next, elections. This is a legislative matter. Legislation takes its time in Sweden – you need to make sure that there is time to do a solid job, which I assume Sten Bergheden has respect for. However, we will not sit still in the course of the investigation, but we will continue to work consistently to ensure that all people, wherever they live in our country, are able to manage their finances using the methods they choose.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-427	Mr President, I would like to I noted that I did not receive an answer to my question whether it was intended to do anything more during the investigation period. I wish the Minister would come back to that in the next debate. Nor did I get an answer as to whether the Minister believes that the banks should receive cash and that they should be able to leave cash at our banks. It would be good to have clarification on this point. This is not the only thing that is happening to the countryside today. There is an increase in taxes on petrol and diesel, which means that rural people are facing a more difficult situation. It is announced that it will introduce some kind of truck tax of 10 – 12 SEK per truck mile, which means a cost of 1 00 000 – 200 000 SEK for a haulage company. Transport is becoming more expensive, and we are in danger of losing labour and jobs in rural areas. In addition, the government and the minister have come to talk about the willingness to introduce some form of bank tax – the figure mentioned has been SEK 7 billion. This is a consequence of this driving the process of rationalisation in rural areas even further. Moreover, entering and threatening a bank tax of 7 billion means that there is a risk that even more rural bank accounts will be closed down and some of our banks will move abroad. This, in turn, would affect both the workforce and the possibility of receiving services and assistance in cash handling and other matters. The policy adopted by the government threatens rural areas – that is the reason for the debate today. Cash management is part of it, and many people experience it as a problem when they are not able to give up and collect money when they need it. Today, it may be that a day's cashier will be moved 4 - 100 km to a bank that receives cashiers and manages cash handling. This is expensive working time for the entrepreneur, and it affects the environment that you go on a trip like this. This should be done by every company, while in the past everything was collected at the local bank, which then moved the money to other banks. The fact that this cannot be coordinated in any way has clearly meant a deterioration for rural areas, for both environmental and labour reasons. In addition, Mr President, digital connections in rural areas are difficult. We know that Swish and cards don't work unless the card reader or mobile phone has coverage. We also know that the number of ATMs in the country is decreasing, even though the Minister here says that more are being sought. This is remarkable, as it affects the ability to obtain and manage cash. In addition, it is good to have some cash at home, if we were to be blocked off in any way, or if our digital systems were to be extinguished. In such a situation, we would need to have access to cash somewhere – a card reader is not enough on the day the electronic systems are switched off. I repeat my questions – I would like answers to them. Why should it take so long? Are you going to do something before? Is it reasonable for banks to say no to receiving or handing out cash? The third thing that came up here was that it has been told that the county administrative board will control service points and other things. It is strange, however, Mr President, that tax money is being used on the one hand to try to set up payment stations in rural areas and, on the other hand, to introduce taxes and other things that allow banks to move away from rural areas so that tax money can be used to stimulate this activity to start up again. This is artificial breathing, Mr President. I wish this time I could find answers to the questions I asked.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-438	Mr President, I would like to I find it boring when you don't listen to debates. I find it sad when you try to win political points instead of finding ways forward in a common spirit of consensus. I think that Sten Bergheden, unfortunately, is moving in a worrying direction and that this is very much unnecessary. I would have more sympathy if Sten Bergheden had a better history to point out, but I can see that his party has not fulfilled any of the wishes he is now addressing to me. I welcome the fact that we are having this debate – I think it is good – but these are issues that deserve us to be a little more humble than I think Sten Bergheden is in this debate. I hope that his next speech has a more constructive spirit. We will certainly act if we see that there is a need for further action. Each year, the county administrative boards compile a summary of what it looks like in their areas of responsibility. The County Administrative Board of Dalarna compiles and communicates the information to the Government. We value this information very much, which gives us a better basis for deciding whether further efforts are needed. We will continue to follow this issue and we will act if necessary. I find it interesting that Sten Bergheden highlights issues about regulating banking and – as I understand it, although Sten Bergheden may not put it directly – demands that all banks provide cash everywhere. I have a picture that the Moderates are not the party that usually wants to regulate business in detail and decide exactly how to design their operations and where in the country they are going to happen. If the Moderates have changed direction on this issue, it is a welcome message, but we will hear if that is the direction that Sten Bergheden has and if he has his party with him. What the investigation currently in place will look at is precisely how to design a regulation that has a positive effect on the possibilities of using cash across the country. I think we are mistaken if we believe that this is a very simple issue that can be resolved in a quick turn. These are rather difficult issues that come up. For example, today we have banks with very different focus – there are banks that are well represented in rural areas and have a close service to many people, but there are also clean internet banks that do not have any offices at all. Should Sten Bergheden regulate that they have to open offices all over the country, and if so, how? Should some kind of geographical quota be met? If Sten Bergheden has answers to these questions today, it would be very interesting to hear. This issue deserves to be dealt with in an investigation in which we can get the facts and well thought out and worked out proposals, and where we also have time to discuss between the parties our way into common solutions rather than trying to win quick party political points – I do not believe that this brings the results that the issue deserves. Sten Bergheden expressed his criticism of the bank tax. However, I note that the Moderates in their draft budget have a financial activity tax, that is to say, a tax based on higher employers' contributions in the financial sector. If this is such a bad proposal, perhaps the Moderates would not have included it in their budget option. It could be a proposal for the next budget round. We are very committed to having access to good technology throughout the country. This is why the government has developed a new, much more ambitious broadband strategy and has also allocated large resources to develop well-functioning infrastructure throughout the country. This will be able to deliver good results and provide the opportunity for digital payment services for anyone who wants to use them. I think we can see that digital payment services offer great opportunities for many people and simplify the lives of many people. But we will also enable the use of cash throughout the country.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-449	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Minister has no answers and that there are no ideas on how to proceed. Then you set up an investigation that can take two and a half years to come up with some answers, and then you should look further at it. It is obvious that you have time to shut down most of it before anything happens from the government that is sitting today. It's not that I'm standing here pushing the issue, but both PRO, the pensioner's organization, and SPF Seniors are running it. Disabled people are affected. Our companies are affected. Sports associations are affected. People who need to handle cash in any way have been affected by this. It is clear that the Minister can sit rhetorically and blame the previous government instead of standing up straight and saying: I am responsible for this. Actually, I haven't done much in the first two years, but I've set up an investigation that's going on for two and a half years. This would have been honest and straight, and I would have understood that. But at this point, to try to blame the old government for a sit uation that's getting worse and worse, to sit paralysed in the gallery and watch and wait for an investigation for two and a half years-- that's serious. This is what affects the countryside and the other part out there. A little more activity from both the Minister and the government on this issue would have been desirable. It is not enough to set up investigations, but perhaps we need to look at how this can be solved in different ways. There are certainly many different ways, such as dialogue with banks and other things, to get a good deal on this without having to regulate or amend the law. On the other hand, the introduction of new taxes in rural areas and taxes on the banking system are much faster. It's going a lot faster. It does not take two and a half years to get them out, but it is directly in the next budget of EUR 7 billion. A little more action is needed, Mr President, from the government and the Minister to resolve this very urgent issue for the rural peoples.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-456	Mr President, I would like to I would like to draw attention to the last part of Sten Bergheden's speech, that this is an important issue. There's nothing to be mistaken about. This is an issue that is very important for this government too. Contrary to Sten Bergheden's assertions, we have been energetic and have taken the initiative. We have dedicated resources to complement private operators when they are unable to fulfil their mission, so that there are payment solutions and cash management across the country. We have also, as Sten Bergheden suggests, had a close dialogue with the banks. We have held round tables with them on several occasions and made sure that they actually come up with proposals on how to deal with this issue. As I see it, it is the banks that have the greatest responsibility for their customers and the Swedish people themselves to be able to choose how they want to manage their finances. In addition, we have had a dialogue with the stakeholders who have been affected a lot, such as PRO and SPF, which Sten Bergheden mentions, and many others on this issue. Unlike the previous government, which for eight years did not set up an investigation to propose another legislation, we have already set up an investigation that will work on these issues. I look forward to the fact that together there – the Green Party, the government parties and also the opposition and the Sten Bergheden Moderates Party – we will be able to turn these issues around and solve the problems that exist. It is easy to stand and shout at legislation, but when you ask how such legislation could be designed, you do not get any relevant answers. This is an issue in which we simply need to have a better basis in order to be able to come forward with legislation that not only looks good on paper but also works in reality and leads to the result that I feel we both want, that is, that people, wherever they live in the country, should be able to manage their own economy in the way they choose.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-461	Mr President, I would like to Roland Gustbée has asked me what initiatives I and the government are prepared to take to make it easier for anyone who depends on using cash. Digitisation of the economy offers many opportunities and new solutions. At the same time, the rapidly decreasing use and management of cash is a challenge for many people. The State has therefore assumed responsibility for basic payment services in places where the need for basic payment services is not met by the market. Each county administrative board shall assess annually whether society's needs for basic payment services are met. As part of this work, the Government has given the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency resources and the task, together with the County Administrative Board in Dalarna County, to provide support to the county administrative boards in their work on designing and implementing various initiatives. Since 2012, the county administrative boards have been working with regionally adapted solutions, including payment service agents. There are currently 27 state-funded payment service agents around the country where it is possible to pay bills, withdraw money and leave day funds. The county administrative boards also work closely with Sparbankernas Riksförbund and the Swedish Bank Association on these issues. In addition, at government level, discussions are continuing with the banks and other actors about their responsibility for a functioning cash and payment system throughout the country. Since the government took office, I have had several meetings with representatives from the banks in order to conduct discussions and collaborate on how cash management in society can work better. The conclusion of these round tables is, among other things, that banks should provide information on the opportunities and services they offer and that there is a need for concrete action in the form of enhanced cooperation and consensus solutions between banks and between banks and shops/traders. The Swedish Bank Association and Sparbankernas Riksförbund undertook to jointly follow up the round tables in order to try to bring about consensus solutions and other measures. There are therefore ongoing talks and exchanges of information on this issue. Banks have a fundamental responsibility to ensure that their customers are able to manage their finances in the way they choose. Finally, I would also like to mention that the government recently decided on a parliamentary committee to carry out a review of the Monetary Policy Framework and the Riksbank Act. The Committee's mandate includes, among other things, examining the legal conditions and forms of cash supply and cash handling, and in particular the Riksbank's responsibility in these matters.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-465	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. This interpellation is about cash infrastructure. Before I go into why such infrastructure is so important, I would like to highlight why cash is so important to this day. The main argument for continued use of cash is that cash can be used by everyone. Many people in Sweden do not have access to credit cards, Swish, bankgiro and other payment methods. These are older people who may find it difficult to absorb new technologies. It is about new arrivals who have not received a social security number and therefore cannot open an account in a Swedish bank or sign a telephone subscription that is required to make electronic transactions. It is about people who have gone into personal bankruptcy and are therefore denied payment cards. And it may be children who want to go to the store and buy a liter of milk for their mother but cannot, because they are too young to have a debit card. For non-profit associations and other more informal organisations, cash is a convenient means of payment. It does not require investment in card terminals and no visit to the bank to arrange contracts, and as long as the transactions are small, no expensive security arrangements are required for cash. Even for individuals who at some point set up a table at a flea market or sell the child's adult cycle, cash is a convenient option for receiving payment. In the case of smaller transactions, cash payments are also considerably faster than card payments. Paying in the parking machine or buying an ice cream is much faster with cash than with cards. Mr President, I would like to As long as these arguments exist to maintain cash and do not make us completely dependent on electronic means of payment, there is also a need for infrastructure for this cash. Those who wish to use cash must be able to deposit cash into the bank in a simple and financial manner, so that it is stored safely and becomes accessible with other means of payment. Fewer and fewer bank accounts accept cash, and some receive only certain denominations. Swedish banks are part of our infrastructure. They usually make big profits, but they are also protected by the state when things are going badly, for example through the deposit guarantee. That is why I think it is reasonable for the state to make counter-claims. One such requirement could be for the bank's offices to handle cash. The measures presented by the Government seem to me to be a step in the right direction. But it is quite a long way to go for us to have access to cash services in banks all over the country. Even quite large towns lack the opportunity today. I therefore wonder whether the Government is satisfied with the current state of the cash infrastructure.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-473	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Roland Gustbée for the interpellation on an important issue. This is an area in which I believe there are conditions for finding common solutions. I think there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament between all parties that this is an issue that is worrying and where we need to find ways forward. There is not a single simple solution that solves all problems at once, but we need to work with many different tools in parallel. As I said in the answer, it is a question in which we act. We allocate resources to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to complement the private operators in those places where you do not have a fully functioning payment system and therefore cannot use cash. We also conduct a yearly review of the situation in the various parts of Sweden in order to be able to supplement with additional measures. Payment service agents will be expanded and will be available in more locations around the country. As Roland Gustbée points out in his speech, there are groups today who have problems if they cannot use cash, and we must take that very seriously. We are also trying to create opportunities for more people to access the electronic offer of payment services. As regards, for example, people in personal bankruptcy, as Roland Gustbée mentioned, we have a new debt restructuring law, which provides an opportunity for many more to lift themselves out of debt and participate in the same way as all of us in the economic system. We also have a new payment account directive, which is being translated into Swedish law. Here we will ensure that many more than before have access to payment accounts with basic payment services. In the area by area, we are working to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to participate in the economy and manage their economy effectively. I also know that there is intensive work going on within pensioner organisations, for example, to train and provide guidance on how to use new payment methods. We must also see that there are problems linked to cash management. One example is that walking around streets and squares with large amounts of cash brings with it a risk of robbery and also a risk to physical security. Then electronic payment solutions, when they are possible to use, can in many ways be a safer way to manage your finances. But then we must also ensure that there are physical conditions, such as infrastructure. Roland Gustbées's post breathes a little bit that there is a focus that we should completely get rid of cash. I can say straight away that there is no such political objective from the government, nor have I seen it from the Riksdag. On the contrary, the Riksbank is bringing a new series of notes and coins to the Swedish people, and that, if anything, is a sign that cash is important in our society and that it will continue to exist for a long time to come. It may seem like a simple solution to require all bank accounts to handle cash everywhere. However, there is a parallel process in which bank accounts are closed throughout the country. As many debaters have highlighted, there is a risk that a requirement for all bank accounts to provide cash everywhere could speed up the closure of bank accounts and thus give even less access to banking services overall. It is a risk that needs to be taken seriously and that needs to be sorted out. Therefore, it is a good process to have a parliamentary inquiry that looks at these complex issues and tries to find a broad-based solution with Parliament's parties.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-484	Mr President, I would like to I share the view of the Government that a mix of different means of payment is required. For larger amounts, electronic transactions are certainly preferable, and the risk of robbery has not slowed down over time despite the fact that there is less cash in circulation. However, excessive reliance on electronic transactions risks being a breach of privacy. Each card transaction is recorded. It is, of course, good for the Tax Agency and for shops, which get control of their transactions. But it also increases the control of customers by companies and their consumption patterns. It is perfectly possible for the store to register a customer's purchase pattern and then direct marketing to the customer based on this. I think we have all experienced this in different contexts. When you shop at Ica you get tips that they have an extra price on exactly what I buy. For those who legally or illegally access the card company's databases, it is easy to identify a person's movement patterns. The risk should not be exaggerated, but it is real. Technology is never 100% either. Sometimes the systems stop working, and sometimes they are not comprehensive. We who travel with SJ regularly have probably experienced that the cash register system is down and that it is therefore not possible to shop in the bistro. There has been too much dependence on electronic transactions. Even the one who has cash won't be allowed to trade. And in many places in the country there is no broadband or mobile coverage. There is also a risk of sabotage. Not least in the current state of security policy, this concerns us. If payment systems are eliminated in a country that is totally dependent on them, there is no need for cannons to force that country to make concessions. As the Government mentioned, we have recently received new notes and coins in Sweden. That's excellent. They are more difficult to forge and easier to recognize. It is all the more remarkable, then, that not only banks stop accepting cash, but that more and more in shops, restaurants, public transport and more refuse to accept this means of payment. This means that, in practice, parts of the population are excluded from using social services and this in a way that would otherwise be considered discriminatory. Does the Government consider it problematic that certain groups have more difficulty in using these services and are excluded from both private and public social services?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-492	Mr President, I would like to I thank Roland Gustbée for a valuable contribution. I share many of the points made by Roland Gustbée. There are challenges that we need to face in the fairly rapid development that we are looking towards increasingly digital payment solutions. I meet people in my daily life who don't use cash at all anymore and who are often satisfied with it. They feel that it reduces the hassle and that it is effective payment solutions. We also see that the transition to digital payment solutions creates opportunities for completely new and innovative solutions. The financial technology sector, which is growing rapidly in Sweden, has a lot to do with the fact that it has more and more digital payment solutions and can also connect to new solutions and new services. But there are also challenges that we need to address. I see it as problematic that people feel compelled to use payment solutions that they are not comfortable with or that they feel that everyday life becomes difficult and complicated because they have long transport routes and can neither deposit nor withdraw cash in an easy way anymore. Here we need to create an opportunity to bridge the challenges we face. The privacy restriction is double-edged. For those who do not feel comfortable, it should be possible to make use of cash payment solutions, which the government also works for. At the same time, there are probably many who appreciate getting more tailor-made offers that suit one's personal preferences. There are therefore parts of the population that are more in favour of this. As I said, we are trying to ensure that there is infrastructure throughout the country so that digital payment solutions can be used. If you have good access to broadband or mobile networks, it can also make everyday life easier for people in rural areas. They don't have to transport long distances to bank accounts and the like. Our broadband strategy therefore focuses on ensuring that the entire population has good access to broadband and with a higher capacity than the previous target. We have set aside a lot of resources to speed up broadband deployment. There is a problem in imposing on private operators what market models they should use and, for example, imposing requirements on every player who operates and manages financial transactions that they must use cash. For example, public transport in Stockholm and in many other places has chosen to refrain from cash in order not to endanger the safety of staff and expose it to the risk of robbery. Workable payment solutions have been found for travellers while at the same time creating a better working situation for workers. We must respect this, and this has often been done in agreement between employers and employees. In this situation, to go in with tough legislation and demand that everyone in society have to take cash at all times, I feel as a rather far-reaching measure – a measure that I had not assumed either that the Moderates would be representatives of the Riksdag. It is better that in an investigation we look at the Riksbank's role in the cash supply. After all, the Riksbank issues notes and coins, and now we will look at the role of the Riksbank in ensuring that these banknotes and coins can be used by people throughout the country.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-503	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Per Bolund for the debate on a very urgent issue. Cash is an important complement to other methods of payment. They are accessible to everyone – old and young and Swedish citizens as undocumented. They are easy to use, they work during power outages and they are resistant to sabotage and hackers. They even work on the bare mountain and in tunnels. For all these benefits to come to their own, banks and shops must accept cash. I, too, am not prepared to legislate to force this, but it would be good if the industry knew what it was doing when it excluded a large part of its potential clientele. We must be prepared to make tougher demands on banks and other businesses – I am convinced of that. I do not believe that measures taken so far, such as state-funded payment service providers, are sufficient. There are many fairly large places that today have neither a cash bank nor a payment service agent. We will see what the review of the monetary policy framework provides. I hope for a further constructive debate.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-508	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Roland Gustbée for a fruitful debate. These are pressing issues, and I meet many people in my work who are concerned about developments and who see that it has created obstacles and problems in their everyday lives. The government will continue to follow this issue closely. We will receive annual reports from the county administrative boards on how it looks in their parts of the country and thus be able to supplement with additional measures. I want to make it clear that I hope and press hard for a consensus solution in which economic operators take greater responsibility for the issue. I feel that you have not really taken the responsibility that you need to take for all customers to be able to use the payment methods they choose. Roland Gustbée formulates what places tougher demands on the banks. So do I. And so do the government. Among other things, we are amending the legislation so that more people can have access to payment services and payment accounts. We also have an ongoing dialogue with the banks where we have been clear that we expect more action and that they should be more active and contribute to solutions in this area. We have also been clear in pointing out that we now have an investigation that is prepared to produce legislative proposals that can have quite far-reaching consequences for the banks' business. If, instead, the banks work together to develop a better functioning regulatory framework and cooperate to give the Swedish people access to the payment solutions that people themselves choose, I personally think that would be a much better way to go. I hope that the banks in Sweden take their responsibility and are prepared to take action to meet the needs of the Swedish people for various forms of payment solutions throughout the country. I will continue to press for and make demands on the part of the government in communication with the banks.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-514	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what proposals I have to increase the driving forces for a longer working life within the framework of the pension agreement. The starting point in Lotta Finstorp's interpellation is that increasing life expectancy also makes it reasonable for more people to work longer to ensure good welfare. On this we are in complete agreement, and we also agree on it in the Pensions Group, where the issue is discussed between the six parties that are now behind the pension agreement. As the pension earned will last throughout the pensioner's life, an increasing average life expectancy will mean ever lower starting pensions, unless working life is extended. Conversely, as a rule of thumb, one year's longer working life gives about 8 percent higher annual pension. In this way, there is already a clear incentive to compensate for a longer life expectancy with a longer working life. The problem is that it does not happen to a sufficient extent, sometimes because of insufficient knowledge of the power that exists in the increase in life expectancy and the value of another year's work. The latter is also worrying in the perspective of equal pensions, as the former exit of women from the labour market makes a significant contribution to the pension gap between women and men. Although the average exit age is clearly rising, the norm of a retirement age of 65 is still strong. The 65-year pension standard permeates society as a whole, and since a longer working life is also a major concern for society as a whole, changes need to be broadly anchored. Changes need to be made to the pension system, but precisely because the challenge is greater, there was also a total agreement in the Pensions Group on the urgency of starting this dialogue with the social partners. After all, working life is to be extended, and occupational pensions and their design also play a significant role in pension choices. Göran Hägglund and Göran Johnsson have been process leaders for the work on that dialogue and have conducted a large number of discussions with parties, stakeholders and experts in order to achieve a broad consensus on needs and measures. During the dialogue, the social partners demonstrated a high level of responsibility, which was also reflected in the final declaration of intent. It shows that there is a good understanding and broad agreement on the need to extend working life and on the need for broad action across society, which is far from just about age limits. These include measures for an earlier entry, changes in the functioning of the education system and, not least, measures that allow more people to actually work longer. The milestone in the longer working life of the dialogue will have a major impact on the continuation of work and the relaxation of the 65-year standard. The value of the letter of intent can therefore, as I see it, hardly be overestimated. Pension schemes are very long-term commitments and long-term and broad agreements are therefore particularly important. We have, and I highly value that. Now we have also added anchoring with the labour market, which makes the prerequisites for a longer working life even better. We are now moving on to that work together.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-524	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his answer – an answer that shows how complex this question is. What I miss in the answer is the financial incentives that can make you stay longer in the labour market and actually get more money in your wallet. I hope that the Minister will be able to come to this later in the debate. Sweden is one of the world's best countries to age in and will continue to be so. It is a country where everyone is seen and heard regardless of age, background and experience. But we know that many people testify that this is not the case, and that is why politics is important. The case of the pension agreement and the Pensions Group shows the scope of the agreement in a positive way. It can change attitudes that one takes care of an agreement together in the way that happens. Getting older should not have to mean that you are suddenly part of a collective where everyone should be seen as the same and like the same music and do the same things. We must continue to be the unique individuals we have been in working life. Many seniors feel that they are not welcome to remain in the labour market. That is why I was very pleased when the Minister in his reply described that they are now working together with the labour market. It would be interesting to hear a little about the idea in the joint work. The higher our average age gets, the longer we are expected to work to achieve, above all, welfare, as the Minister indicated in the answer. We simply have to work more years to make ends meet economically. The 65-year standard mentioned by the Minister in his reply is exactly what we are living with today. At 65 years they have done their part in the labour market. Many are worn out, and just as we said, it is a very complex issue. Of course, health and safety issues are there. You must be able to work longer, and you must have had a decent life during your working life. Economic incentives are very important, and that can be why more people do not stick around. They see that they have to tax away what they work together during the time they work longer than the 65-year standard. You shouldn't underestimate getting more money in your wallet. Most parties agree that we have to work more years. However, one of the governing parties differs significantly from the other parties in this view. And I just want to problematize this a little bit. The language tube Isabella Lövin recently stated in Dagens Nyheter that the reintroduction of the free year could be a way of coping with the stress of working life. The Minister and I have often stood in this House talking about stress-related ill-health, women in the public sector and so on. So I do not at all share the opinion of the mouthpiece that one would deal with the stress if people could take out a free year. Rather, it would be the case that the important work environment work would go back. One could think: Now we have the free year, and then we do not have to work with the work environment in the same way. What is also interesting in the article is that DN writes that the test of free years in Sweden, which was done between 2005 and 2007, did not lead to better wage development for women. Neither did sickness rates improve. This seems to me to be of little importance in this context, but it is still interesting to highlight. Does the Minister think that a free year is a solution, i.e. that we work fewer years, and that it would be helpful in terms of the health and safety problems that exist where many women in the public sector get a stress-related illness?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-538	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Finstorp for this quite important interpellation. She highlights a number of very exciting questions. As I said, there is a very clear consensus in the Pensions Group on the importance of creating the conditions for more people to work longer with different means. Life expectancy increases by three and a half hours each day, or by 20 minutes every two hours. That's the reality. The reality is that very many of the people who are now living longer and longer also add more healthy years to their lives. This is happening in a Sweden where today we have a labour market where we know that for the foreseeable future we will need every hand in the labour market, not only to secure the economy and growth, but also to cope with welfare. It also means that for those people who are given the opportunity to remain, they also ensure a much better pension. As I say in my answer, an extension of working life by an average of 8% is a higher pension. These are, in fact, quite significant figures we are talking about. It is also a great pleasure for me to note that we now have a declaration of intent in which we agree with a large part of the social partners on the importance of this happening. Then it is clear that there are also groups in the labour market, which Lotta Finstorp also mentions, where there is another problem. It is people who leave the labour market prematurely because of disability, ill health or illness during working life. Women are over-represented there. That is why it is necessary – Lotta Finstorp and I have discussed it before – to have the opportunity during working life to change and change career if, for example, the shoulders, so to speak, end. But there is also a need for a much more positive view of the older labour force in Sweden, where there are still many prejudices about the fact that, even after the age of 55, one cannot fully contribute with the same ability in the labour market. That is something that we, politically together, really need to make up for. We need these people in the labour market. We need their skills, knowledge and experience in working life. In addition, many people today want to stay longer in the labour market. I am often told that people would have liked to remain in the workplace, but that this standard is so strong and that expectations of leaving the labour market are so great. Despite this, we see movements. We see that many older people then instead choose to start their own business. We have had an explosion in the number of older people who start their own businesses. We also see that every third state employee now chooses to stay and work until the age of 67. Then we politicians also need to help create conditions for more people. Lotta Finstorp points to something important at the end of her speech, namely the rather exciting discussion about working time that has sailed up. My picture is that when Isabella Lövin refers to the issue of free years, it will be part of a larger study on different working time models. I find that exciting. What it is about here is to evaluate the trials that were made with free years. It may be good, so that we really know what they actually gave results one way or the other.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-547	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for an important debate in a good tone. There are, so to speak, no truths here. But we see so clearly that if you extend working life by one year, you get a pension that is 8% higher. But this is about something that one might call ignorance, that is, there is not enough information. What you would like to see is a great campaign effort in Sweden on these issues. Sometimes I miss the bulletin board in SVT2, where social information came out in a clear way. When you're young, you don't think about this at all. You think there's a lot of time left until you retire. Pär Nyrén, Vice Chairman of Moderata Students Uppsala, wrote a very good debate article in Upsala Nya Tidning. So it is a young person who is reflecting on these issues. Among other things, he mentioned that there was an OECD study showing that Swedish university students, on average, did not graduate until the age of 29, three years later than the OECD average. It is therefore not only a question of adding years after 65, which is the norm, but also of working more years and getting started and working earlier. What you work and earn when you're young should stand and grow the longest. There is also a women's trap, because you often go down in working hours when you have children. It is found in all the complexity of the pension. I think that a lot is about knowledge and information that needs to be done. Otherwise, there will be a lot of complaints about the pension system itself, which is actually equal. It is when it comes to how we work during our working life, men and women, that it becomes unequal. And that goes with the pension system. Pär Nyrén also writes in his debate article, because Swedish university students graduate so late, that as a result the abilities we develop with higher studies will not be taken into account. Thus, people will not use the skills they have acquired during these years for as long as they should from a socio-economic perspective. That is also something that should be considered. He also refers to the long-term investigation of 2011. It shows that the individual loses 80 000 kroner for each year he or she postpones his or her degree, and society loses twice as much. It's great that our young people want to go out and realize themselves, work as volunteers and so on. As a result, however, they postpone the year of graduation. In the long run, it affects pensions and the entire pension system. But it is hard to say to a young person: Think now of what happens if you go out into the world. There will be problems with your own pension and with your pension system. Pär Nyrén also writes about proposals from Moderata Students that the higher education preparatory programmes in upper secondary school should more purposefully prepare prospective students not only in terms of knowledge but also help them to choose the direction of study on time. A lot of people say when they graduate, they're gonna take a sabbatical year. Then it will be a year more. But if they have decided to study further, it is really just as well to do it quite quickly. You have to show that it is profitable to study further but that it is good to get started faster. You have to find incentives for that.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-561	Mr President, I would like to I will comment on some of the points raised by Lotta Finstorp in the debate. But I will first go back to this with different working time models. It is clear that it is interesting for politics to look at this issue from a different perspective. If you see how the social partners have regulated the labour market and working hours, it is to a very large extent that it is when you are over 40 or 45 that you have more favourable holiday conditions or have the opportunity to work more flexibly. There you can think about at what time in life you are in greatest need of flexibility to make life go together, and of course you also need to think about what is pensionable. Is it when the children have left home and you are over 50, or is it when you are in the middle of life trying to make ends meet? There we see a lot of women getting sick today. This with different working time models is exciting. It's about trying to think a little outside the frame when it comes to both what happens in the middle of life and at the end of life, to encourage people to work longer. There are examples of solutions to collective agreements, where older workers go down and work 80% but receive a salary of 90% and a pension provision of 100%, which means that they may be able to cope with much more years. There are some exciting things here. Then it is quite right, as Lotta Finstorp says, that we in Sweden have among the latest labour market entries in Europe. We are studying for a very long time, which means that we are entering the labour market late, and we have not postponed our withdrawal. It is definitely important that we also stimulate and find ways for people to enter the labour market sooner. It is gratifying to note that this was one of the issues that the social partners also raised in politics in connection with the discussions that Göran Hägglund and Göran Johnsson had about how we should achieve a longer working life. We have been discussing the issue of a longer working life for quite some time now. It is an issue that needs a broad anchoring. I now understand that we have it to a large extent, and from the point of view of politics we can put our foot down. Even if you decide on a time to adjust the different ages of the pension system, it is still a journey before it will actually happen. But just the fact that politics is setting its foot on this issue will send a clear signal to people and also give them a reasonable time to re-set before this is implemented. We can look at comparisons with other countries where this has been done. We are soon the last country in Europe to have not adjusted the retirement age. Many times I am asked: Is it not enough to enter the labour market earlier? No, that's not enough. There must be changes at both ends. Although entering the labour market earlier, it is not worth as much as extending working life by one year at the end. It has to do with sharing numbers, life expectancy and such things. Then I want to talk about this by taking sabbatical years and traveling to Thailand. I agree with Lotta Finstorp that we have to get people to think about the consequences for the overall economy during life at various important decisions in life – when you have formed a family or when you are going on that Thailand year after the student.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-569	Mr President, I would like to We are touchingly agreed on many things. When, then, will politics set its foot? That was my idea. That's really important. I believe that the debate has, as it were, been, and now we are just waiting for it to become a reality. We are the last in Europe. There's no need to wait. But this is more a matter of knowledge, because I do not really have all the facts there. What is important is financial incentives. The person is not born who is not interested in getting more money in his wallet when working anymore. It must be a tax burden that is realistic for the person who will work a year longer, or else you will not. There must also be the possibility of change earlier in life, when you feel that you can't take it anymore or if you want to change direction because you don't like your job anymore. We Moderates have suggestions as to how this could be done. I would also like to see a built-up mentoring system. Now it's more about enthusiasts who find their own solutions. I, as a member of the social services, see that it would really be necessary to have older, good social secretaries there who can help in difficult matters. Those who have recently graduated and young people today have to take a huge responsibility. The municipality of Eskilstuna has senior teachers who support and supervise newly graduated teachers. I think it's very interesting. Perhaps it is the case that solutions should be found locally. However, it is very much based on the fact that someone is taking it on their own, and perhaps it could be possible to find more national solutions where seniors are left and have an important role to play for those who have recently graduated. The Minister mentioned the review of working time. It must not be the case that we work fewer hours, but we must work more hours.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-575	Mr President, I would like to We have one in many parts quite new labour market with new challenges. I believe that we need to adopt a rather pragmatic approach and also a new approach to a number of the issues that we have discussed today in order to find smart solutions together with the social partners in terms of stimulating people to enter the labour market, for example. There are such ideas. This has also been an important issue that the parties have brought into the further work of a longer working life, just as the parties have also raised the issue of opportunities for transition during working life. There we need to formulate, together with trade unions and employers, what is the role of politics in supporting this and what is the role of the social partners. I am convinced that we need to make things easier for people here. Now that we are discussing a longer working life, I would like to take this opportunity to say – it could be someone watching this interpellation debate – that I often hear that we could resolve this by increasing contributions to the pension system and that it would be enough for us to manage the financing of future pensions. I think it is important to say that this is not a possible path. Firstly, it would be far too expensive, and secondly, it would only have an impact in 40 years' time. We must look pragmatically at this whole issue and put our foot down politically. Now we've been working. We finished the letter of intent last fall. I look forward to the fact that, this spring, we in the pension group will continue to work on the timetable for implementation.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-578	Mr President, I would like to Christina Örnebjär has asked me if I will take any initiatives to make it easier for parents of children with chronic illness or disabilities to take part in teaching staff in preschool and school how to deal with the child's needs. Christina Örnebjär has also asked me if I would take any initiatives to make it easier for parents to give up secular work to support their children in school and preschool when the staff who knows the child's needs are absent. As mentioned in the answer to Christina Örnebjär's interpellation 2015/ 16:710, I share Christina Örnebjär's view that children with diabetes should have a safe school day and, like all children, have the right to an equal education in a safe environment. Since Christina Örnebjär's previous interpellation on the matter, the legal situation has been clarified by a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, which establishes the judgment of the Administrative Court, and hence the rejection of the Social Insurance Fund in the present case. The municipalities are responsible for ensuring that all children are able to attend school and to offer children over one year of preschool to the extent required by the parent's secular work, regardless of whether the child is in need of support, and in terms of self-care, it is the health care system that determines which action can be carried out as self-care in each individual case. Children's right to support in preschool and school is a prerequisite for children and parents to feel safe and for parents to be able to reconcile family and work. Parental insurance and temporary parental allowance provide parents with the opportunity to compensate for loss of earned income when the parent temporarily has to give up work in a number of different situations when the child is sick or needs to visit a doctor. In order to give all children a safe stay in preschool and school, it is important that health care staff, preschool and school as well as parents cooperate so that self-care functions as safely and well as possible. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked by the Government to map how healthcare works in terms of self-care interventions, and the Authority concludes that it needs to provide clearer information on the responsibility of healthcare for assessment, information and consultation with other actors in self-care interventions. The government sees the need to highlight the possibility of combining work and parenthood. Combining work and parenthood can be particularly challenging for parents of children with chronic illness or disability. In February 2016, the Government has set up an investigation to review parental insurance, including temporary parental benefit. In addition, the Government is carrying out several initiatives to strengthen pupil health, increase staff density in schools and reduce the size of children's groups in preschool.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-586	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. At first I thought, "That's great! This is going to work out quite well! Then I thought a little bit about how on earth I would have something sensible to say during my speaking minutes. But then I thought a little bit more and realized that I probably still have a lot to say. It is good that, as the Government says, you should review parental insurance and temporary parental allowance. However, as the Minister also said last time we debated this issue, she is not sure that it is precisely the temporary parental allowance that will solve this, but that it is thought that more resources will be added to the school and school health care. This is where I get stuck and have a lot to add. More and more resources for school and school health care are basically always good. We fully agree that school health care needs to be expanded. The problem is that student health staff are not responsible for self-care at school. Student health should primarily work with prevention and health promotion but not work with self-care. This means that this whole part that I ask about – who should really train the staff in school and preschool and how to get the conditions for it – falls. Clara wrote on Facebook after I wrote that I asked these questions: I took my last 3 weeks' vacation for training and attended preschool. Now our resource has stopped and we have to train one more, and in August we change to school before preschool class and then have to train a team there too. I don't know how to make sense of time. I am very depressed and disheartened about this – at the tip of our son's being so seriously ill and that we actually don't sleep a single night at a stretch anymore. ..................................................... The problem is who's going to train the staff if the parents don't. Healthcare does not have the resources to do so. It is not possible, and it is far beyond the school health care mission and for that matter also the opportunity, because each child is unique and has a unique problem. Instead, someone must train school health care, and then it will be the same. This is an element 22. We can, in principle, add as much resources to school health care without solving it. The reason I put these questions to the Government is that, as has been said, there has been a decision in the Supreme Administrative Court. The last time we stood here and talked about the same thing, the Government referred to the fact that we should wait for the decision, because the Minister did not want to precede the decision. I have full respect for that, because I think we should avoid ministerial rule as much as we can and preferably completely. But now we have an answer. It has been sentenced to the favour of Försäkringskassan. It is not possible to take out vab, i.e. temporary parental allowance for the care of children, in order to train school staff or childcare staff. The question then is what to do with, for example, children with type 1 diabetes or autoimmune diseases – or disabilities, which also apply – so that all children get what they are entitled to, namely a safe school day.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-594	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Örnebjär, for a very important interpellation! Parents of children with diabetes also contact me and point to the problem in this. Just as Christina Örnebjär says, we are in a situation where also the Supreme Administrative Court has said that as the law is designed today is the interpretation that the Social Insurance Agency has made for how the law can be used quite clearly, that is, it is not possible to use the temporary parental allowance for this within the legal framework as it stands today. Since we talked about this last time, or at least I do not know if I raised it as an argument last time, the National Board of Health and Welfare has during this time had the government's mission to map how health care works in terms of self-care. This survey shows, among other things, just what Christina Örnebjär describes, that patients and parents often get the role of bearer of information about self-care to others or have to help in the way we have seen that they have been doing within the framework of the temporary parental allowance for quite a long time. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare therefore concludes that the authority needs to provide clearer information on the responsibility of the healthcare system for assessment, information and consultation with other actors in self-care interventions. Whether you think that the temporary parental allowance should be used for this or not, I think it is incredibly important to continue to point out very clearly the school's responsibility to ensure a safe environment for children with disabilities or chronic diseases and the responsibility that also lies at the school to have staff capable of dealing with children with different chronic diseases or disabilities. I think that health care and school together with parents can ensure a safe environment around the child is incredibly important. It is not something that we should blur on; on the contrary, we should be very clear about and strengthen in the future. On the other hand, as I also said in my response to this interpellation, we are also currently having an ongoing review of the whole of parental insurance. There is also the temporary parental allowance. Not least in the light of the work carried out by Christina Örnebjär and others to highlight the reality of the situation, it is an issue that is obviously included in the review of temporary parental insurance. If it is not within the framework of the law today, it is something that we need to take into account in relation to what it looks like. As I said, this question is part of the ongoing work.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-599	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd give a background to this question. I know the government knows a lot about this. We have debated this before, but I think that perhaps not everyone is really watching, and I know that there are several people watching the debate. In 1922 insulin began to be used and drastically changed the outcome for children diagnosed with diabetes. Previously, it was a death sentence. A year later, the researchers received the Nobel Prize. Now, almost a hundred years later, we have not really come much further. We still don't know the cause of diabetes. We still don't know how to cure diabetes. We can't prevent diabetes. And still children, young and adults die of diabetes. Sweden has the world's second highest rate of diabetes in children. Only Finland has it worse than we have it. 8,000 children live with diabetes every day. Today, two children fall ill. Tomorrow, two more. Yesterday there were two, too. Every day two children fall ill. I'm spared myself. I have no children with diabetes but of course friends and acquaintances who have it, just as I also have friends and acquaintances with children who have really severe allergies, heart defects or other forms of disabilities. That I use diabetes as an example is because it is so very common, that there is no cure and that it is fatal. If you have a child who is ill because of his diabetes, you cannot take out a vab at all times and be at home with the child. You don't fit in the template of Försäkringskassan. It is common for staff at preschools and schools to give children prescription medication. Preschool teachers do it more than other professions. It is about asthma, allergies, diabetes, epilepsy and various letter diagnoses, which have been added now. Sometimes it is a matter of pure emergency medication, for example, in case of an allergy shock. When asked 1,000 teachers, 44 percent answered that they did not think it was okay for them to give the children medicine. Nearly one in five of those who give medicine felt that they had not received sufficient information or education about the child's health and medicine. Above all, it is at school that you think that is the case. It looks better in preschool. A survey called Diabetes at school in 2008 showed that 58 percent of children do not have an adult in school who is primarily responsible for helping with self-care. Less than half of all children have access to their own resources. And here's something that I bounced to really on– I actually got really worried: 20 percent of the parents say that they underdose insulin at least once a week, because they're afraid that the kids will get low blood sugar on school day. In Sweden, teachers will give medicine unless the union requests a negotiation and places a so-called interpretation preference. If there is no preference for interpretation, teachers simply cannot refuse. Otherwise you can have a discussion about it. The opposite is true in Finland. Teachers are allowed to give medicine if they have consented to it themselves and have received sufficient information and training from doctors and nurses. It also requires that there be someone who trains the teachers so that they can say yes if they feel comfortable with it. It could be a way for Sver ige to go, to turn it around. Instead of requiring teachers to give medicine, turn it around. But then we must have the resources to do so. The school's not supposed to have medical personnel running around in the corridors. It is precisely the joint between parental responsibility and the school's responsibility for self-care that is the problem. How should knowledge be transferred? If the school doesn't know anything and if the parents don't get the opportunity, who's going to train and who's going to pay for it? The government mentions this law. If it is the law that is the problem, we should probably change it.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-611	Mr President, I would like to The level of diabetes among children and young people is truly striking. This also applies to the rate of increase that we have seen over time. I have the greatest respect for the concerns expressed by parents and for the difficulty that many paint in solving the leave you feel you need to leave your child safely at school or preschool. That is why this issue is included in the review of temporary parental benefit. As the timetable stands right now, the investigation will make proposals this autumn, so that it will be possible for the government to make proposals during its term of office. Christina Örnebjär also describes what the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has found in its survey, namely that the interaction between parents, healthcare and school is lacking to some extent. On the one hand, it is the responsibility of health care to assess the extent to which responsibility for self-care can be transferred at school or preschool – if it is safe to do so. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the school and the headmaster to allocate sufficient resources for the children who have such needs in schools or preschools. However, it is not just about that. Another important thing that Christina Örnebjär raises is the concern that a lot of staff feel when working to help with self-care efforts. It's not least important. As the regulatory framework is designed today, employers have a responsibility to ensure that staff have the necessary skills, but also to feel safe in carrying out their tasks. There are obviously several things to work on. We are working on the track to review the temporary parental allowance, how it can be used and how it should be used. But we are also working on the other track that has become clear, not least in these cases, namely that the interaction needs to be improved – regardless. It is also a matter of providing security for parents. I was thinking about just the example that Christina Örnebjär raised and which I also encounter often: the unpredictability, the sudden change, which you often encounter when it comes to children with diabetes. I understand that you can feel very worried about it, both as a parent and as a staff in school or preschool. Thank you for a good interpellation. I am convinced that Christina Örnebjär will be on this issue in the future. It is good and important; many are concerned.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-618	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'll definitely come back and nag until it's changed. If there's anything I can do to make it happen, I'm really gonna do it. We have, of course, talked a lot about school, because I have formulated the question that way. However, parents of children who have a chronic illness, disability or, for that matter, social problems often have to give up work for other reasons. You may need to attend a doctor's visit or have a meeting with the school or preschool or with the social services. If there's a doctor's appointment, you have the right to wiggle. However, if it is social services or contact with the school, it is not possible to do so, but to take leave without compensation or take a vacation day. Then you better hope you have an employer who thinks it's okay. You have no formal right to take time off. It depends on the employer's good will. We also need to do more here. I'll send it to you while we're on the idea that it's being investigated. If, at the same time, we revised the coordination rules for health care allowance, it could be resolved by allowing the right to temporary parental benefit to include those who need increased contact with preschool, school or social services, due to permanent illness or similar. It would therefore not be possible to obtain temporary parental allowance and care allowance for the same needs. Today it is the opposite. It is a proposal from us Liberals that I would be happy to send along. Precisely the insecurity is incredibly great. In a smaller survey, where nearly 400 parents responded, 41 percent felt a little like that around security. 8 percent felt no security at all. Thus, half of the respondents did not feel safe in sending their children to school. We must give parents and entire families the opportunity to live with the child's diabetes, epilepsy or allergy and not against it. Feel free to strengthen school health care! That's what I'm cheering for. But that's not enough. We're working on it. And I'm gonna keep going. With that, I would like to thank the Government for a constructive debate.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-626	Mr President, I would like to When I read Christina Örnebjär's interpellation, I noticed this. Some of the reasons why we are reviewing the whole of parental insurance is that society has changed, that working life has changed. Today, both guardians often work full-time, participate full-time in the labour market. It's assumed, too. Today, quite a few parents are single. We know that it is a group that is financially vulnerable, for example. The government's entry into the review of parental insurance has been about how we will achieve more modern parental insurance that responds to the needs we see today. There is more equality, that every fifth child grows up in a star family – which does not look like a core family – and that the labour market has changed; there are other demands. I noticed that Christina Örnebjär raised this with contact days and mentioned it in connection with LSS, for example. An exciting thought that I know the parental insurance investigation is looking at is to cluster parental insurance in a different way. There could be a possibility of contact days or children's days that can be used in a different way than today, perhaps also higher up in the age range. Many teenage parents point to the importance of being present in their children's lives in a different way. It is exciting that we allow ourselves to have a little more creative debate and not just need to focus on the fact that everything must be as it always has been without us being able to adjust our social security policies to the reality and the needs that people actually have. Thank you for a good debate!
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-632	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked the Minister for Rural Affairs how the Government intends to work to ensure that the application of the beach protection rules does not have a negative impact on Sweden's horse industry. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Swedish beach protection is unique from an international perspective together with the right of public access. Strand protection rules aim to create the conditions for public access to nature experiences and for the conservation of biodiversity in coastal areas. The beach zone is also particularly important for biodiversity. At the same time, there is flexibility in the rules to promote rural development and local decision-making. There is a general derogation from the beach protection rules for buildings, facilities, facilities or measures necessary for agriculture, forestry, fishing or reindeer husbandry. Other non-agricultural sectors are not covered by the derogation. Measures necessary for horse husbandry, such as the construction of stables, riding houses or horse pastures, may be covered by the derogation if they are needed for an agricultural activity. I note that the Land and Environment Court of Appeal has recently granted leave to review the question of whether training of horses can also be covered by the derogation for agricultural activities. I do not wish to pre-empt the Court's examination of this matter. I would like to point out that several changes have been made to beach protection legislation in recent years. In particular, the changes from 2009 and 2010 have changed the conditions by moving the decision-making rights to municipalities to a greater extent and adding the derogation for rural development in coastal locations, LIS. Furthermore, a rule on new possibilities for abolishing the protection of the shores of small lakes and watercourses came into force as late as 2014. I note that the changes to the beach protection rules have been in force for a relatively short time. However, the government believes that it is already appropriate to review the rules on rural development areas in coastal locations – the so-called LIS rules. The government wants to see a vibrant countryside that can be developed, while preserving an attractive landscape and protecting valuable natural environments, and considers that there is potential to develop the LIS instrument for that purpose. The design of the current mission is currently being prepared within the Government Office. We must not forget that beach protection in itself is a value for rural development through opportunities for living environments close to untouched nature and access to nature experiences for the tourism industry.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-639	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I had actually put the interpellation to the Minister for Rural Development because it is about business. But the Minister for the Environment is doing just as well. The reason for the interpellation is the many traders who have great difficulties in using their land due to the handling and interpretation of the beach protection rules. The horse industry and the fishing industry are two activities that are often hindered in their business development. The rules currently mean, among other things, that there is no way to strike a balance between the general interests of conservation and the need for landowners to use their land where none of the special reasons laid down by law are present. The lack of balance is particularly evident as many small lakes and watercourses are affected. They too are covered by the beach shelter. There is, among other things, a famous water ditch in Dalarna that has been treated in a former beach shelter. The question was whether to consider ditches to be a watercourse when it is dry during certain periods. People feel that the management is very entrepreneurial when you refer to the beach protection rules and the ditch is dry most of the year. It is, in fact, contrary to the intention of the legislator that the rules should constitute a direct obstacle in this way. It makes it impossible for many rural entrepreneurs to expand cautiously but with environmental considerations. It is placed as a wet blanket over areas in Sweden. In 2009 and 2010, the Alliance government changed the law on shore protection. The aim was to facilitate rural settlements, while the regulation would be more restrictive in areas with major urban pressures. It looks very different in the country. In the archipelago, for example, you have to have tough restrictions while in Malå, Vilhelmina or Flen you could very well build and further develop companies. But it is difficult now that it is just as tough and hard everywhere, and that is not what was meant when we changed the legislation. The purpose of the beach protection is to ensure the conditions for public outdoor life while maintaining good quality for animal and plant life. This is where the balance is going to be so difficult. How can you preserve animal and plant life while entrepreneurs in the horse industry in particular – this is where the big problems are because cows and horses are not judged equally in legislation – may not be able to further develop their activities and perhaps hire an additional person? Beach protection rules simply put an end to it. Today 10 per cent of Sweden's beaches are affected by buildings near water. So 90 percent of the beaches are not affected. The government has stated that the whole of Sweden should live, and I think that is a very good goal. I would say that all parties have that objective. Then I wonder: when and in what way are rural entrepreneurs to see the government's objectives, and above all in what way?
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-647	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister for the Environment has already said, beach protection, together with the right of public access, is something that is unique from an international perspective. We should be proud of this in Sweden. The aim is for the public to have access to nature experiences and for us to preserve the species richness that exists in the beach environments. Beach protection also reduces vulnerability to climate change. So we should be grateful that we have this regulatory framework. Because the protection of the beach has meant that we are expected to have less problems than many other countries with theslides and floods that are expected to be the effects of climate change. Strand protection will reduce both future problems and costs for us. As sea levels rise and floods become more frequent, animals and plants dependent on beach environments will lose their habitats. By having a beach cover, there is a guarantee that animals and plants will have access to an unexploited beach. Boverket, responsible for the environmental objective Good built environment, writes in its vision for 2025: Many have taken the increased risks of building along the beaches due to climate change seriously. Through climate-friendly planning, new buildings are now located in more protected locations. The general beach protection covers 100 metres, but the county administrative boards can also decide on extended beach protection of 300 metres in particularly sensitive areas. Beach protection changed during the time of the alliance government, and some changes were good. The legislation clarifies the reasons for granting the exemption. The county administrative boards shall also clearly justify the extension of beach protection. Unfortunately, deteriorations were also carried out. We now need stronger reasons than in the past to introduce extended beach protection. Responsibilities for exemptions and suspension of beach protection in detailed plans have been transferred from the county administrative board to the municipality. In June, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the area with extended beach protection has decreased to about 74 per cent of the area before the review. It may seem unfortunate that it has become easier to build by water in a position where it appears risky. But let's not talk about it in this interpellation debate. Rather, it concerns the possibility for the owner of the horse, like the owner of cattle and sheep, to allow his animals to graze in a beach protected area. Like Lotta Finstorp, I also think there is reason to review the regulations. I, too, have been courted by the horse industry and been made aware that there are different rules for a dairy farm and a horse farm. However, what concerns both these companies is the difficulty of financing an investment in, for example, a new barn or stable. This also applies to us, moreover, if we want to take out loans for the construction of residential buildings in rural areas. Yesterday we were members of Parliament from Värmlandsbänken invited to Säffle Municipality. It is a municipality that has identified 38 so-called LIS areas in its master plan. But it was not the need for further relief in the beach shelter we talked about on the date. Instead, we talked about the problem that there are higher demands on both security and own contribution for an entrepreneur or housebuilder in the countryside. It's not even enough to have the best location by the water to make the calculations go together," said the municipality's rural developer. My question may I come back to in my next speech.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-658	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that there are many activities which are of great importance for rural development and which are not covered by the general derogation. Even if the border were moved, a different delimitation of a general exception would always involve difficult bordering problems and a difficult balance. I do not think we should even think that there is a perfect limit to such exceptions. I would like to reiterate that I will not comment on the elements directly concerned by a current judicial review. However, it may be worth pointing out that there is a difference between cattle, which was mentioned, and horses, as noted by the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. A pasture can add almost three times as much phosphorus to the ground as a farmer has to add to his fields. This is because horses are often out all year round, unlike cattle, for example. This is a real difference. However, I do not know whether this was the basis of the law. It is, in any case, a knowledge that we have and which is topical today. I would also like to draw attention to what Mrs Bergström is raising. What are the obstacles to carrying out various activities, such as horse nutrition, in the rural areas of Sweden today? Strand protection often comes up in the debate, but it is important that we also focus on other parts. Access to finance is a part that needs to be discussed more. The government is investing heavily in nature conservation and access to recreational areas around Sweden. We do this in close collaboration with a look at the tourism industry and the needs of active, mobile outdoor life. Today, with quite major changes in how we live and live, there is a need for an active policy in this part. It is important, for example, to really take care of the protected areas and make them accessible to both visitors and organised outdoor activities, such as the horse industry, by taking care of trails etc. This is a way to create conditions for horse industry such as professional business and leisure. There are many aspects here, of which the beach shelter is only one. I would like to reiterate that the previous government has carried out major reforms in the area of beach protection. We are now dealing with two of them in the form of appeals and with the fact that case law is in the process of settling. We should have respect for the effects of rowing major reforms on each other before previous reforms have settled. We do not even have any case law in place in these parts. This applies, among other things, to very small lakes and streams, which Lotta Finstorp mentioned. This is new legislation, and we are dealing with appeals in this regard at the moment, thus establishing case law. It is designed to make it easier and to increase public understanding. The government has chosen to focus on LIS. We seem to agree that it does not work well. I think it makes sense to take one step at a time instead of painting with very large brushes and launching major reforms before we know how previous reforms have landed.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-667	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for a good and important debate! I know that many people listen to it, because it is important for how to operate and live in rural areas and be able to expand carefully with environmental considerations. I am very pleased that the LIS rules will be reviewed and I hope that the directives will be drawn up quickly so that we will have a good evaluation or review on the ground, because that is necessary. The Minister mentioned a principle that the LRF is dealing with right now but that the Minister does not want to discuss. It's very wise not to. I am following this with great interest both in the mass media and in the LRF. It is interesting because it can really lead to changes in some way, as the person in question must not let his horses graze near the beach. Regarding SLU's comparison between cattle and horses, it can be said that horses are generally heavier. Because horses trample down more, they move more often, and you want to get a rune. It will be something completely different than if you have cattle in your possession. A general beach protection without regard to the conservation value of the beaches is unreasonable and incompatible with both Swedish and EU law. This is what the LRF writes about. They have delved into these issues. They argue that beach protection today has unreasonable consequences for those who are traders in the vicinity. It will be a problem to live close to water if you have, for example, a horse food. It's gonna be a bigger problem than if you didn't live like that. I think the LRF has interesting suggestions. Incidentally, I must mention that these are their proposals and not my own. The proposals include a balancing of interests by weighing individual interests against conservation interests. It would automatically bring relief in areas with low settlement pressures compared to highly exploited areas, just as the alliance government was reforming the beach protection legislation. Being able to live and work seafaring with environmental considerations is not only an important factor in improving the quality of life, but it is also a prerequisite for rural municipalities in particular to be able to stop depopulation and maintain service and all that is associated with people living in the area. Does the Minister see any risks of re-balancing interest? In the past, conservation and different interests would be weighed against each other. Will the Minister work towards introducing a general derogation for small lakes and watercourses? It could be envisaged that rules should be introduced for the size of a watercourse. Now each case is examined if the watercourse is large enough. Artificial wetlands could be excluded, and one might imagine, for example, that a dug ditch is not covered by the beach protection rules. Today, all watercourses, regardless of their size, have equal protection. That's not really reasonable. This also adds a wet blanket and a dead hand over sparsely populated municipalities that need more migration and more inhabitants but also companies, such as the horse industry, that can expand and perhaps hire another person. Since amendment 2009/10 applies the exemption for the agricultural industries only if the facilities or measures for their operation have to exist or be applied in the coastal protection area. But there, the horse industry has huge problems too. You don't generally get okay with this.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-676	Mr President, I would like to I, too, think it is very good to make an evaluation of the LIS reform and see what it has led to. If I could wish, I would like you to look at how much permanent housing and how much summer cottages have become of what has been built. I myself am a rural resident and think that permanent housing is what is important for rural development. I would also like to see how the LIS areas have benefited different companies. A third thing I would like you to look at is how climate-proof the LIS areas are, and whether this has been taken into account when the areas have been identified. I would like to come back to what I mentioned in my previous speech. I know that the government has been working on a package of measures to promote rural development, which is very gratifying. These are everything from the issues of funding, which I mentioned in my previous speech, to support social services, simplified licensing procedures, state aid for public transport in rural areas and more state jobs in rural areas. I believe that this is much more important for rural development than further relaxation in the protection of the shore. I find it difficult to see that this would put some kind of dead hand over the countryside, as Lotta Finstorp says. For example, for a family that moves to the countryside, it is much more important that there is a school, a preschool and perhaps a shop than that you can live right by the beach. After all, all of us want to go by the water, and it is also important that we ensure that those who already reside are not prevented from doing so. I would very much like to hear the Minister for the Environment's views on these other measures taken by the government to promote rural development.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-682	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on the claim that the shoreguard would lay some kind of dead hand over areas. I'll tell you what happens when you put a beach shelter. As far as beach protection is concerned, the law is very clear. You look at the purpose of the beach shelter. It concerns the interests of outdoor life and the values of nature. Then there are possibilities for exemption from the beach protection. The beach shelter is not a dead hand. It is possible to have operations and to build within a beach protection area if you can show a number of clear parameters. A municipality can plan and grant exemptions in a beach protection area. In this situation, a balance is struck between individual interests in a way that reflects the rule of property protection, which exists in the form of government. This constitutional provision means that the individual's property is secured against general restrictions on the use of land or building, except where necessary to satisfy urgent public interests. So you have to see this in two steps. First you put a beach shelter. Then you look at quite objective parameters – nature conservation and outdoor life. Then there is an exemption. It is important to see the whole picture in order to understand the connection to how it affects industries, for example. I would like to reiterate that work on the reforms that have been made is still ongoing. The trial is still ongoing, for example as regards the possibility of not having beach protection in very small lakes and streams. That's a new rule. We cannot yet say anything about how it works. I would not be surprised if it were made clear through the judicial review, for example by developing measurements of what is a small watercourse and that it is established by judgments and case-law, so that we get the clarity that Lotta Finstorp seeks. You have to have a little patience when you're out there setting up huge reforms, like the Alliance government did. It takes time to have the full picture and application in the authorities in place, and I think that we as decision-makers should have respect for that. Stina Bergström calls for my view on rural development as a whole, and I would like to comment on this. I fully share Stina Bergström's picture. When it comes to rural needs in Sweden, what is happening and how we can strengthen not least the business community, beach protection has a completely disproportionate part to play in the debate. Other issues should be discussed more, not least funding opportunities, but also how, for example, we strengthen the links between nature conservation and different types of industries. As Minister of the Environment, I am very active there. I have brought this into an active dialogue; the authorities that I am responsible for must cooperate, for example with the Swedish Agency for Growth and other authorities that are driving development, so that we use, for example, beach protection and nature conservation as part of a development work and do not see them as obstacles but drive different processes together to create a strong rural environment. Nature and natural values are an important part of rural values. If we build them away, we lose the beauty that is part of what is fantastic about our countryside. That would be a mistake.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-688	Mr President, I would like to It may be to tell you that there is a wet blanket or a dead hand over certain areas in sparsely populated areas because, for example, one must not build a place or develop one's horse food. But last autumn I visited a farmer who wanted to lease his land to a neighbor who is a horse businessman with trotting horses. All the farmer's land is bordered by a large famous lake in the middle of Sörmland. I couldn't, because the neighbor couldn't let his horses graze there. Such consequences have this effect. And if animals don't go there and graze the land again instead. This will somehow be swings and carousels, but there will be unreasonable limitations for many people who want to live and work in rural areas. A full - time farmer may be allowed to fence animals in a beach protection area, while the one who has a job alongside may not. But many of them cannot live solely on their horse farm or farming, but they have many legs on which to stand, and then it can be judged differently because they are not full-time farmers. That's also unreasonable, I think. What does the Minister intend to do to make predictability clearer for the trader? When people get in touch you hear that it was in a way in the neighboring municipality but was assessed in a different way in their own municipality. The same is true, for example, with the exception of building permits. There are also very different assessments of municipalities, such as whether or not a barn is needed for agricultural activities. A farmer may then have to choose between building without a building permit but risk having to demolish the building or refrain from expanding his business.
i-c2a289862c70c3dc-691	Mr President, I would like to With regard to this legislation, current practice and the work to achieve, among other things, an equivalent application of beach protection rules on the basis of regional and local conditions, I would like to remind you that all these laws were introduced by the former alliance government. The Strandskyddsdelegation did a work with the aim of looking at the processing parts. It is the reforms of the alliance government for those over whom Lotta Finstorp is so upset today. I believe that we cannot yet see the consequences of these major reforms. I do not stand for the same policy and do not paint with large wide brushes, but we have identified a problem on which all parties here in Parliament seem to agree, namely that LIS does not work. That's why we're starting there from the government's side. We will look at how LIS has worked and what we can do to make it work better, so that it really will be the tool for rural development that it was intended to be. That is the first step we take, and we shall do it properly, instead of promising major and broad reforms.
