i-51a09335ed8e043e-0	Mr President, I would like to As chairman of the Parliament's Constitutional Committee, it is my task to tell the House that the Committee unanimously proposes that the Parliament be elected as the new Parliamentary Ombudsman by the Parliamentary Ombudsman Thomas Norling. Representatives of the Ombudsmen's Office and Thomas Norling are sitting in the gallery. You are, of course, warmly welcome to the Riksdag! The JO office has been in existence for more than 200 years. Since its inception, the Ombudsman has been responsible for overseeing the authorities and ensuring that they comply with laws and other provisions in their activities. JO's activities are part of the parliament's power of control and an important force for high quality and legal certainty in public administration. Last week, when we held an open committee meeting and received the Joo official report, we were able to see that the task is indisputably necessary and important. The state must live up to the demands of the rule of law, and the state must protect human rights and freedoms. We have all seen many examples throughout history of how bad things can go if this is not done. It can simply be said that the office of Ombudsman has the task of ensuring that the state remains good, that the authorities and their representatives comply with the laws and that the individual citizen is ultimately entitled to his or her rights. This is extremely important. Initially, a Ombudsman was elected, but now we need four Ombudsmen of Justice for a period of four years. That is what is required, and we still have a heavy workload in the institution. As former JO Stefan Holgersson has requested resignation and left his mandate, the Constitutional Committee has had to prepare the election now before the House. I am pleased that the committee unanimously proposes Thomas Norling as the new JO. He was born in 1962 and has been a member of the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm since 2014. Prior to that, Thomas Norling was Chief Legal Officer and Head of Division of the Pensions Agency. He has also been head of office at the Deposit Insurance Board. Thomas Norling has also been a special investigator, investigation secretary and expert in several government investigations. Since 2015 until very recently he has been chairman of the Swedish Public Relations Board and he is – at least for a while longer, I think – chairman of the Swedish Defence Radio Institute's Privacy Protection Council. Thomas Norling thus has a well-ordained and solid experience across the board, and that is what is needed for an ombudsman of justice. Thomas Norling can take up the position as JO on 1 April 2018. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee therefore unanimously proposes that the Parliament of Sweden's 65th Parliamentary Ombudsman elects Thomas Norling.
i-4NdiQgUXC9W6cqMNSgEw5j	The following letter had been received from the Constitutional Committee: Justice Ombudsman Stefan Holgersson has resigned from his assignment. In view of this, the Constitutional Committee has prepared the question of the election of a new Ombudsman.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-15	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a country characterised by cohesion. It shall be a country in which a person who is unable to work as a result of illness shall be entitled to support and security during the period of illness, but also to health and rehabilitation measures which shall enable him to return to the workplace as quickly as possible. This objective forms the basis of Moderate policies in the field of social security. For the Moderates, it is obvious that society's efforts should focus on helping people back to work. One of the effects of long-term sick leave turns out to be great even in the next generation: Children of parents who are long-term sick tend to be on sick leave themselves to a greater degree than others. Sick leave has increased in Sweden for a long time. However, we are now seeing a reduction statistically, and it is, of course, welcome. Unfortunately, there is one group that does not apply. It is mainly women, who still have high sickness benefits, which is very worrying. There are also other major challenges. We see, for example, that the proportion of long-term illness continues to increase, partly as a consequence of the government's choice to abolish the longer deadline, contrary to accumulated expertise and competence. The Alliance therefore believes that this deadline should be reintroduced as soon as possible. We also see that the rate of onset of illness with psychiatric diagnoses is increasing at a furious rate. These are the vast majority of cases of depression and anxiety disorder. Mental illness is often difficult to define. For this reason, we believe that a new track in the rehabilitation chain needs to be created. It may be that a change of duties with the employer may be sufficient, and then it is not reasonable to wait 90 days before a review is carried out. The employment agency should also be involved early in order to allow for possible change of employer or industry. A new track should be created for the Employment Service. The increasing sickness absence is costly in several respects. It is costly first and foremost for the individual, who must live with his illness and the suffering it causes. It is also costly for society in the form of expenses for sickness benefit and sickness benefit and health care and rehabilitation measures. The heaviest cost – the one that the individual must bear – cannot be said for me as a politician. I can only say that long absences of sick leave, in addition to the suffering caused by the disease itself, lead to economic as well as social exclusion – economic in the form of poorer private economy and social in the form of fewer social contacts and exchanges in everyday life. On the other hand, I can comment on the costs to society. I am forced to say with a heavy mind that spending on sick leave has increased over several years. This year, for example, the cost of sickness benefit and rehabilitation is estimated to be around SEK 39 billion. This compares with 2010, when the corresponding figure was 20 1⁄2 billion. Mr President, I would like to Current government policies risk undermining the state economy and pose a threat to public finances during the next recession. The Moderates are therefore putting forward a series of proposals, all of which are aimed at re-establishing the concept of change in health insurance. Among other things, we want to strengthen the rehabilitation chain and reintroduce the longer deadline, and we want the ability to work to be examined regularly. It is well known in the research that rules and compensation levels affect sick leave. The Moderates therefore propose the introduction of a new Karen Day on day 15. It shall, together with the first day of withdrawal, take the form of a withdrawal. We also propose that sickness benefit should amount to 75 per cent of the sickness benefit-based income from day 90 and 70 per cent from day 365. We also propose rejecting the new increased income ceiling. Mr President, I would like to Many young people with disabilities do not get the help they need to activate themselves. Instead, they become inactive and become increasingly remote from the labour market. The financial protection systems we have must always encourage more people to move from sickness to work and education, in order to have a context, meaning and livelihood. However, the government proposes different increases in subsidies instead. We therefore say no to raising the guarantee level for sickness and activity benefits and also to raising one of the entire income-related sickness and activity benefits. We also want to abolish the automatic right to early retirement in the event of extended schooling and the accompanying right to housing allowance. On the basis of the evaluations of Försäkringskassan's work on health insurance, we are all forced to note that the controls in the rehabilitation chain are not being carried out satisfactorily. Many times they are not carried out at all, and in two out of three cases they are incomplete. These are serious problems which affect the sick in particular, who do not receive the help and support to which they are entitled. It also undermines confidence in health insurance and has harmful socio-economic effects. The Moderates are therefore putting forward a series of proposals, all of which are aimed at re-establishing the concept of change in health insurance. Among other things, we want to strengthen the current rehabilitation chain so that it will function as it is intended. In particular, all actors in the sphere around the sick person must cooperate. Now it seems that there are often watertight bulkheads between them. The Social Insurance Agency, the employer, the health care service and the Employment Service must cooperate, as well as at an early stage. At the same time, the ability to work must be examined regularly. The Social Insurance Agency should at day 45 test the ability to work against other tasks of the employer and at day 90 against the whole labour market. Furthermore, as I have said before, we want to introduce a special rehabilitation chain for easy mental diagnoses with the aim of creating better conditions for returning to work. The efforts for this group shall be carried out by experienced administrators at Försäkringskassan, who shall be specialized in mental illness. In sports, we also highlight the importance of a good work environment and therefore propose targeted interventions for the psychosocial work environment within occupational groups with high sick leave. The Social Insurance Agency should also be tasked with reviewing health care providers' sick leave behaviour. We believe that the role of Försäkringskassan and the tasks it should have as a coordinating actor around the sick person are crucial throughout the rehabilitation chain. Its organisation should therefore be strengthened, which is why we are proposing increased funding for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a country characterised by cohesion. The reform proposals of the Alliance and Moderates can restore the concept of change in health insurance. People affected by illness should be given all the help they need to return to work and their own livelihoods. This creates the conditions for a better Sweden where all people can have the opportunity to realise their potential. The Parliament decided on 22 November 2017 on the framework for the spending areas of the state budget and on the calculation of central government revenue. In the motion We believe in Sweden – The Moderates' Budget Movement for 2018 – the Moderates' Draft Budget and the Alliance's Guidelines for Economic Policy were presented. I am in favour of Amendment No 12 and I refer to our specific opinion.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-32	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Category 10, Economic security in the event of illness and disability. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 and also for the Alliance's exercise 3029 on strengthening the rehabilitation chain, reservation 12. In our special opinion, we give our views on the Government's proposal and present the distribution of funds and proposals presented by the Swedish Democrats in motion 2017/ 18:3611. Mr President, I would like to In Category 10, sickness and disability benefits and their administration are dealt with. It is an urgent area of financial security as their own work capacity deteriorates. In addition, a well-functioning system allows for re-entry into the labour market, or in some cases a first entry. Mr President, I would like to From time to time, we can read in the media about people who have come under care as a result of an accident or illness and who, because of a serious illness, are unable to take care of the practicalities of this. It is a matter of, for example, handling bills or filing a permit with Försäkringskassan or other relevant authorities. The consequence is that the sufferer has not only a often long and demanding recovery, but also major financial and administrative problems. This is about a small part of everyone who gets acutely ill, and in the vast majority of cases there are relatives or a so-called good man who takes care of such things. But that is not always the case. When an insured person has a serious illness or suffers from the suites following an accident, the Social Insurance Agency should be entitled to obtain information from the health care service without the insured person's consent. The Government should review whether such a possibility can be introduced for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Mr President, I would like to As far as the Alliance's motion is concerned, we have Swedish democrats a working group working on the question of the longer deadline. It is an extremely important and major issue that deserves to be dealt with with with the utmost seriousness. However, due to events that we have not been able to anticipate, this important work is still ongoing, and our ready-made proposal for reform has not yet been published. I would like to point out that the Swedish democrats' model of health insurance will not be a return to the black-and-white insurance system that existed before, but nor will it be the one that is extremely expensive for taxpayers with eternal sickness insurance that exists today. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats believe that the Social Insurance Agency's control over payments to certain EU citizens is lacking, as there is no possibility of recovering contributions even if they have been based on false documents. Most people should probably agree that the principle of equality before the law is sound. Today, however, it does not work in this way in all areas of society. The rules should therefore be amended to allow for recovery where refunds have been wrongly paid on the basis of false documents. Furthermore, the legislation should be amended in general to avoid cheating.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-40	Mr President, I would like to Many sick people today are denied sickness benefit. The number of refusals, as well as the number of appeals, has increased clearly in recent years. According to Försäkringskassan's statistics, the declines have increased sharply since 2015. In January of this year, the proportion of refusals was 5.2 per cent for women and 4.9 per cent for men. This is more than a doubling compared to 2015. An important contributory factor is the government's pressure on the Social Insurance Agency to work for a reduced sickness rate. This leads to more rejections, which makes the statistics look like the sick are getting fewer. It hasn't made people healthier. However, this leads to a series of tragedies in which sick people are denied compensation. We have been able to read about people who had to sell their furniture or borrow money from friends to cope with such basic things as buying food. Both TCO and LO have been extremely critical – not to say pissed off – and told us how union members and their doctors testify that the Social Insurance Agency is increasingly questioning the medical certificate and the doctor's assessment that the sick person is unable to work. Everyone can get sick and everyone has an interest in a good health insurance. Even those who never get long-term ill themselves benefit from having a reasonable financial situation for those who are unlucky and, where possible, receive good support to get back to work. Forced out sick people into poverty is tearing society apart and is an unworthy way of dealing with people. The government and the Left Party ensured that the lower time limit in the sickness benefit system, the so-called ‘fallstock', was abolished in December 2015. It was a very important part of restoring decent health insurance. But much remains to be done before we have a secure insurance that guarantees that disease does not also mean poverty. Health insurance should be generous, so that medical interventions, rehabilitation and work trials can be carried out in an individually adapted way without affecting the benefit. Instead of today's fixed deadlines, the Left Party wants to introduce rights for the sick person to receive back-to-work support. The employer should be forced to take responsibility for rehabilitation. Despite the fact that employers are already obliged to participate in the rehabilitation of an employee too rarely, it should therefore be possible to impose fines on employers who do not comply with the rules. Mr President, I would like to The demands for sickness benefit are now unreasonably harsh. After the tightening-up that has been carried out, Sweden now has the toughest demands of all OECD countries to grant sickness benefit, according to the Final Report of the Labour Ability Investigation. The Social Insurance Agency itself recently went out and suggested that it should be easier to receive sickness benefit. The economic standard is significantly lower for the sick and activity benefit group than for the general population. Many people are forced into poverty and find it difficult to cope with their economies. One problem for people with sickness and activity benefits is the possibility of voluntary engagement. The right to engage in voluntary activities without losing their remuneration is not regulated by law. There have been cases where sick people are advised by Försäkringskassan not to engage in voluntary activities, as this could interfere with their right to compensation. The Left Party wants a review to be carried out with the aim of ensuring the legal right of persons with sickness and activity benefits to engage in voluntary activities without prejudice to the right to reimbursement from health insurance. Rejection of sickness benefit affects pensions. Many people – especially women and LO members – are unable to work until the age of 65, but today's strict rules on sickness benefit mean that, despite their limited work capacity, they are not granted sickness benefit. To have something to live on, many people who have turned 61 have the right to take out their old-age pension have to do just that. The sooner a person picks out the pension, the lower it gets. As a result, these people will receive a lower pension for the rest of their lives than if they had only retired at the age of 65. In addition, their tax will be higher than that of other pensioners, as the pension paid before the age of 66 is taxed more heavily. Overall, this increases the risk of poverty With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 14.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-54	Mr President, I would like to Sickness insurance should go in and help individuals who become ill, for a shorter or longer period, and who lack work capacity. Health insurance should then provide them with security and a means of subsistence during this period. Sick absence has now begun to level out, but it has done so at a high level while we see that the long illness cases are increasing and getting longer. For five years, the parliamentary social security inquiry worked on health insurance, among other things. One suggestion that the investigation concluded was that it would be possible to remove the lower time limit in health insurance if it was replaced by reconciliations and efforts. The government seems to have only read half of that proposal. The time limit has been removed, but it has not been replaced by anything else. Let me be very clear that you do not misunderstand me. We Liberals do not believe that you will be healthy because there is a longer time limit in health insurance. But we know that people feel good about being needed, being in a context and being in demand. The late deadline was a fixed reconciliation point where the sick leaver got a proper investigation – this in order for the right efforts to be made to the individual with the goal of returning to work. If the investigation concluded that there was still a lack of work capacity due to illness, there was a possibility of a new period of sick leave. Now we see more and more individuals getting sick longer and longer. Even the government writes that this is because the time limit has been removed. If you have been on sick leave for a long time, you have usually lost faith in your own ability. Self-confidence and self-esteem are bad. As an individual, you need a push and a helping hand to dare to believe in yourself, to believe that you still have your professional skills and to believe that you can do this. But now many people are no longer getting this help and support, but they are once again being left out of the system. We Liberals want everyone to be helped and supported on the basis of their individual circumstances, and that is why we want to reintroduce the longer time limit in health insurance. We also know that early intervention and reconciliation points in sick leave are also important in order to get back to work as soon as possible. Today, as you know, we have a withdrawal day on the first day of sick leave. We also want to introduce a withdrawal day on the 15th day of sick leave, so that it becomes a natural reconciliation point before sickness benefit responsibility moves to Försäkringskassan. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a brief word about young people who need extended schooling because of their disability. Today, they receive activity compensation. Activity allowance is a form of sickness benefit – or disability pension, as previously said – given to persons under 29 years of age. Many studies and reports show that the majority of those receiving activity compensation due to extended schooling never leave the system and continue to receive activity and sickness benefits for the rest of their lives. Those who become dependent on the social security system at an early age will have a lower economic standard throughout their lives than their peers. We Liberals want those who have extended schooling due to their disability to receive compensation from the study funding system and not from the activity compensation. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to endorse Amendment No 12 and refer to our specific opinion.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-65	Mr President, I would like to When the Social Insurance Agency presented its latest forecast at the end of October, it contained at least cautiously positive data on the evolution of the cost of sickness benefit and on the activity and sickness benefit. The Authority stated that the forecasts for these benefits can be adjusted downwards compared to previous forecasts. I think it is important to say this because developments have been going in the wrong direction for several years. However, the fact that we now see a certain turnaround should not be interpreted as not facing major challenges in the future. The Christian Democrats' starting point is that health insurance should be safe for those who lack the ability to work because of illness. At the same time, those who are able to regain their ability to work in whole or in part should receive help and good support to get back to work. Everything else is a huge waste of both human and social resources. There are clear risks with long absences. This involves an increased risk of sequelae, social isolation and mental illness. The rehabilitation chain with its deadlines and defined reconciliation points has contributed to a process of sick leave characterised by more activity, past efforts and clearer rules. This ensures that sick leavers have continuous contact with Försäkringskassan and early individual support. All of this is very important in order for the individual to return to work as quickly as possible. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency has recently strengthened its work on carrying out individual reconciliations in connection with the deadlines in the rehabilitation chain. The Christian Democrats see this as very positive. As a result, more cases of illness have been completed during the first year. It is clear that the rehabilitation chain has an impact on sick leave, although of course there is a need for action from several quarters. The reimbursement rates of health insurance shall provide financial security. At the same time, there must be financial incentives to get back to work. For this reason, the Christian Democrats show the government even the proposal to raise the ceiling of health insurance. Mr President, I would like to I said at the outset that we have recently seen a certain reversal in this area. During the year, the so-called sickness benefit rate has finally begun to decrease. The sickness benefit rate indicates how many days of sickness benefit and rehabilitation allowance are paid per insured person in Sweden during one year. In October it was 10.2 days. According to Försäkringskassan's latest report on the development of sick leave, the most likely explanation is that the development has reversed just that the agency has strengthened the work on the sick leave process. Since this began, the refusal of the initial application for sickness benefit has become more common. The assessments to be carried out at the rehabilitation chain's time limits have been made more widely, and the share of the assessments that end the illness has increased. Overall, this means that recent cases of illness have generally been completed more quickly during the first year of sick leave. As long as this is the result of a functioning rehabilitation chain, rather than of ever narrower assessments, it is of course positive. Mr President, I would like to However, while the sickness benefit rate is moving in the right direction, the number of cases of illness exceeding two years has increased and, on average, been longer than in the past, which is a worrying development. This is partly due to the fact that the number of started cases increased until 2015 and that a decreasing proportion of people with sick cases have been granted sickness benefit since the same year. However, this worrying development is also due to the fact that the cut-off in health insurance has been abolished and that the outflow from the long illness is currently very low. According to Försäkringskassan, this means that in the future more and more people will have continuous leave periods of five years or longer. This development must be broken so that more people have the chance to get back to work with all that it means by context and community. Mr President, I would like to In view of the development we see of the long illness, it is particularly remarkable that last year the government chose to remove the lower time limit in health insurance and the work-life-oriented introduction, ALI. In the face of this change, several heavy consultation bodies were critical. The Social Insurance Agency, the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, the Employment Service, the Social Security Inspection and Saco all pointed out that the changes risked leading to even more long illness cases. In addition, IFAU and ISF pointed out that regulatory changes would reduce incentives for both public authorities and individuals to deploy powerful resources to enable return to work. To this can be added that the Expert Group on Studies in Public Economy in 2015 wrote the following about the longer time limit in its report The anatomy of sick leave: For a long-term stable sick leave, a longer time limit is a central component. It sends a signal that sick leave cannot last forever, creating incentives for all actors involved to act to find a solution before the time limit is reached. – – – Research in both health and the related unemployment insurance is clear in that time limits (and control in the broader sense) reduce the use of the insurance both directly, via the time limit itself, and indirectly through increased incentives to end the benefit period before the time limit. ..................................................... If you listen to this, it is not difficult to understand that Sweden is well the only country in the world that lacks a shorter time limit in its health insurance. The Christian Democrats believe that the expiry of the deadline and the work-life-oriented introduction should be reintroduced as soon as possible. It is not worthy of Sweden to leave people in health insurance for such a long time without really doing everything to provide support and incentives so that a return to work is made possible. Mr President, I would like to Many employers, especially smaller companies, find it difficult to meet the obligations and expectations imposed on them by the current rules. Not infrequently there is a lack of adequate professional advice on rehabilitation issues. This shortcoming hampers prevention in the workplace, early detection and effective planning of rehabilitation efforts. The contribution for workplace support that employers can apply for and receive since 2014 partly responds to this problem. The benefit shall be paid for the purchase of investigative measures for workers who have or are at risk of becoming incapacitated. However, as the Social Insurance Agency recently carried out an evaluation of this aid, it emerged that the majority of the employers who received the grant had at least 200 employees. At the same time, small companies accounted for only 3% of those who were granted this support close to the workplace. Since then, the Government has announced that the workplace-related support from next year will be increased and, in addition to investigative actions, also include planning, implementation and follow-up of adaptation and rehabilitation measures. The Christian Democrats are in favour of this. But in addition to further support, we also want to try out a model with workplace advisors, employees of Försäkringskassan or other appropriate authority. These must be able to provide support both in the employer's rehabilitation activities in general and in individual rehabilitation cases. Through this support, employers' knowledge of the Working Environment Act's requirements for work adaptation and rehabilitation would increase as well as their knowledge of how rehabilitation is done in practice. In this way, work-oriented rehabilitation could be better integrated with the preventive work environment at the workplace. Since neither a formal application nor an own financial contribution would be required with this support, it would probably also be significantly more attractive for smaller employers than both the current and the further developed model of workplace support. The results of the pilot project should be monitored and evaluated. If the conclusions of such an evaluation are positive, the initiatives should eventually be extended to the whole country. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the Alliance's joint reservation 12 to be approved. Otherwise, I refer to the specific opinion of the Christian Democrats in the report.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-86	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. It is quite likely that many of us will suffer ill health due to illnesses or injuries in some form during our lives. When we are affected, we need to know that society assists us in getting as healthy as possible through health care. Of course, health care has a large part to play in this, but another important part is our health insurance. What financial security should we have when the ability to work is changed or reduced due to illness? What help and support will we receive in order to get back to work and self-support? Insurance must be clear, understandable and predictable. Since this government took office, we have worked from the outset to change and improve health insurance in various ways. Fewer days of sick leave were and are the goal, but not by reducing the insurance or by reducing sickness rates by withdrawing sickness benefit or compensation. No, our work has always been about tackling the causes of ill health, minimizing ill health and taking measures for people to get rehabilitation and be able to work despite their ill health. We have attacked the causes on all fronts. In autumn 2015, a broad action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave was presented. We have followed this up with further efforts and measures. In total, we have launched some thirty measures aimed at the actors involved in the sick leave programme: the Social Insurance Agency, the Health Care Agency, employers and individuals. Three declarations of intent have been written with the parties, one in the area of state, one in the area of municipalities and county councils and one in the private area. All declarations of intent are slightly different, but all have a clear objective: healthy workplaces and reduced sick leave. We constantly follow this up in our collection for healthy workplaces. When different actors work together, it gets better. But it's not a quick fix. It is not a one-off effort, but it is always ongoing processes. Mr President, I would like to The best rehabilitation is the one that is never needed. Therefore, many of our actions have focused on the prevention of a good and healthy working environment. This has been complemented by various actions in the field of health and safety at work. For example, a new health and safety authority is being built up in the ruins of the bourgeois years by most things that were about working environment. We see forecasts showing that all the measures we have taken are starting to take effect. Our goal, of course, is that people who can work should also work. If there is no doubt. A year and a half ago, the psychosocial work environment was incorporated into the Work Environment Act. It was important, because we see that mental illness has increased, mainly among women but now also among men. Those affected often have a psychologically stressful job or a stressful work situation. Sure, not everything can be attributed to the work, but the important thing is the sum of the cardamom. Life in combination with stressful and stressful work can overwhelm the cup. Actually, it doesn't matter what's what. The important thing is that we manage rehabilitation and provide the support and help needed to get back to health and work. Mr President, I would like to I have now mentioned a little about what we have done and will now move on to what we propose in the future. We have a proposal to strengthen rehabilitation for return to work. Briefly, this means that employers will be required to work together with the employee after 30 days of sick leave to develop a plan for returning to work. The employer will have better opportunities to support adaptation and rehabilitation measures by extending workplace support and by providing a financial contribution of up to SEK 10 000 per employee. This is where it is so important that it works in the workplace and that the employer is involved. We have already introduced rehabilitation coordinators, and they are currently available in most county councils. They have proved to be a good support between healthcare and employers for the individual. Now we want to make this permanent as a professional category. We have reviewed how the collaboration between Försäkringskassan and health care can be better designed and how dialogues can be improved. We see that insurance cover has been eroded and needs to be strengthened. That is why we propose that the ceiling on health insurance be increased by half a price base on 1 July. We suggest that Försäkringskassan should not be allowed to decide on an ongoing case of sickness benefit to the detriment of the individual without the individual having been informed and had the opportunity to comment. Put simply: there will be no withdrawal of sickness benefit for time that has been, unless it is quite clear that there is no reimbursement right. We have also already announced that in 2018 we will make a proposal to replace Karen's Day with a Karen's allowance, which will equalise the unfair differences in the withdrawal period when it comes to people who work daytime with those who work night and other uncomfortable working hours. We've got a lot going on. Work on change does not stop. Mr President, I would like to Sickness insurance is an income loss insurance that should be safe and predictable when the work capacity is impaired due to illness. We have made many improvements and have taken many steps, but unfortunately we have also become aware of things that do not work. There were shortcomings in the regulatory framework and in the legislation introduced under the bourgeois government. The shortcomings were not clear at the time, but they have become clearer as time passed when we have contributed resources to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in order for them to pass their processing times. The Social Insurance Agency today assesses the ability to work on the basis of a fictitious labour market with medical requirements, regardless of what concrete work the individual can do. The job assessment is not based on normal work, but instead examines the insured person's medical conditions for work. This is a little weird. In a 2008 ruling, the Supreme Administrative Court has defined normal work as work that is common in the labour market and where the occupational capacity of the insured person should be fully or almost fully exploited. The work shall require normal performance and shall not require any adjustment other than to a minor extent, according to the Court. In my opinion, we have here an authority that does not follow a ruling from the Supreme Administrative Court, which is very strange. There are also no harmonised interpretations between Försäkringskassan and other bodies regarding work capacity. The second problem concerns specific reasons. Since a legislative amendment in July 2008, special reasons are hardly or never used. It has very strange consequences for the individual, who is forced to stop his sickness benefit in the middle of ongoing medical rehabilitation pending surgery or treatment. We have received numerous statements that this is not working. There are several motions in this report that address these problems. The question is whether health insurance is so predictable when it comes to normal work and whether the insurance is safe when special reasons such as ongoing rehabilitation are no longer taken into account. We share the concerns of the exercisers that the ability to work is assessed on the basis of wrong grounds and consider it necessary for the concept of work ability linked to normal work to be reviewed. A review of the regulatory framework and its application must be carried out as soon as possible. In particular, the assessment at the 180-day limit should be highlighted and the government should return as soon as possible with proposals for measures relating to the assessment linked to normal work. We also see a need to review how and when these specific rules can be used. It might also be possible to use them in terms of age when a person is 63 1⁄2 years old or something like that. Fortunately, I can say that such work is already under way in the government. I look forward to it being presented as early as spring. We Social Democrats do not believe that anyone will get well because they scare him or her with more days of withdrawal or insurance that takes place solely from the point of view of time.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-114	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your statement on how you intend to work with health insurance. In any case, there is one thing on which we agree. It is that we want to improve for those on sick leave to get back to work and have a decent life. However, we have completely different views on how this is to be done. There is a great dividing line between us, and that is the distant time limit. It is quite strange and unimaginable that you do not see the context – that the increasing long periods of sick leave that have now come coincide with the fact that you removed the longer deadline. There are so many studies that show that there is a connection between a longer time limit and long sick leave. We have heard several here, Emma Carlsson Löfdahl and Aron Modig, who have also raised the evidence that it is a driving force to have the border. I would therefore like to ask you a straight question. With the facts in hand, when you see the dramatic increase in long-term sick leave, do you intend to reintroduce the longer deadline when you see the result of what you have done?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-118	Mr President, I would like to The answer is simple: No. The reason is that we do not believe that the longer time limit served a function when it comes to withdrawing sickness benefit for sick people and people with incapacity for work. It didn't help. On the other hand, we are investing heavily in preventive measures, so that in the long term we may be able to avoid a number of the long cases of illness. The later time limit did not have any function in this. We saw that people were insured out and came back, were insured out, and came back, one, two and three times.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-120	Mr President, I would like to These things do not speak against each other. Of course, we all want to make efforts so that there are no long sick leave, and all the efforts that can be made there are really good. The Social Insurance Agency itself has noted that the number of long illness cases decreased dramatically from one month to the next when the deadline was introduced. It's not that people got healthy. It was that the whole chain started and worked in a different way. It had just the effect of people getting back to work. They didn't get better. It was just that you saw the possibilities in a new way. That efficiency also meant huge clutter in the treasury for the state.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-123	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that since we took office, we have allocated resources to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, so that it can do its work on time. It didn't have time to do it in your time. I wonder why. Today, according to the latest report, 80% of the assessments are made in 180-day cases. At that point, it was 50 percent or below. Now there are more resources to make the early assessments. That's where we're gonna put the resources from day one. How are we going to help the individual get back to work in a good way without threatening to withdraw sickness benefit and without making people poorer? It's supposed to have help and support. We have launched a number of measures to be able to work preventively before sick leave and have active measures during sick leave. In my world and in the world of Social Democrats, there is not the distant parentheses as a way of rehabilitation and return to work.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-127	Mr President, I would like to Health insurance is a central part of our security system. It is important for the public to have confidence in the insurance and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency as an authority. We have all seen and heard the debate on health insurance in recent times, where the media have described cases where people have experienced being squeezed and lost their compensation. In a system where millions of cases are dealt with each year, it is inevitable that wrong assessments and decisions will be made, which will obviously have major personal consequences for the individual affected. It is also the case that often the whole picture is not reflected in the media by a complex system such as health insurance. There are also misunderstandings in the debate. This applies, for example, to the role of insurance doctors, popularly known as insurance doctors. The view is that Försäkringskassan should assess whether a person is ill or not, which is not the case. The Social Insurance Agency shall assess whether a person is able to work, even if he is ill or has a disability. It is also the case that most people are not denied their claims for compensation. For example, 97 per cent of their sickness benefit is granted when they apply for the first period of illness. It is also not described in the media that if the rehabilitation chain is to work, other actors such as the Employment Service, health care and, not least, the employer must take their share of the responsibility. However, the system mentioned is not perfect, and there is reason to review it and make justified adjustments. Some things have already been mentioned here in the debate. The concept of normal work needs to be reviewed. It is not reasonable to assess the ability to work against a fictitious labour market that exists only in theory and not in reality. The different views of Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen about what is a normal work is a known problem for a long time. They disagree on the concept. The committee also states that the so-called 180-day assessment should be specifically highlighted in relation to these concepts and the application for specific reasons, for example in the context of ongoing medical rehabilitation. These are extremely important analyses of how health insurance works in practice. In addition, we also need to give political signals and instructions that the rehabilitation chain with relevant interventions should work and that support for the individual must be improved. A number of measures have already been taken to improve the health insurance system but also to combat sick leave. An extensive programme of measures to combat ill health at work is under way. There is an agreement between the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on a quality-proof and effective sick leave and rehabilitation process, and money for it has also been allocated. The employer will be given an increased responsibility for long-term illness, where a plan for returning to work will be drawn up. This obligation is combined with an extension of State aid for workplace-oriented rehabilitation measures, with the increasing importance of occupational health care in particular. I think that's great. This is something that the Green Party has been pushing for a long time. I would like to emphasise in particular that we are now going to have permanent rehabilitation coordinators in the healthcare sector. It will support both the process of sick leave itself and the rehabilitation chain. There is, as you know, a life outside the big cities. We are now strengthening the local presence through ten new service offices in the country. That's great. Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Social Insurance Inspection presented a report showing the complexity of the work of the Social Insurance Fund's sickness benefit administrator. It is a comprehensive set of rules that the administrator should be updated on. They should be both supportive and take individual considerations into account while managing the regulatory framework properly and uniformly, where they should investigate and sometimes even question the right to compensation. In addition, the administrator must balance other actors' requirements, such as health care and Arbetsförmedlingen, which have other assignments and other objectives with their operations. The handlers often work in a context of limited resources, which requires them to be able to prioritise between different objectives when it is not possible to meet everyone. Clearly, all of this can lead to stress. The report also talks about the administrators' experiences of inadequacy. What I have described now is certainly an explanation for the relatively high sickness absence at Försäkringskassan. For this category of staff, the Agency has difficulty offering a reasonable work situation, a generally attractive psychosocial work environment and also attractive salaries that are in parity with the tasks. This also leads to a higher turnover of staff than could have been the case. It goes without saying that there is a certain absurdity – although it is probably not unique to the Social Insurance Agency but affects the public sector more generally – in that staff who themselves feel stressed and where the feeling is not always on top should meet sick people and their stories of a bad feeling. Of course, even if the administrators are both professional and sustainable, there are limits. Here is also the challenge for the agency to retain and recruit staff. The activity compensation for young long-term ills and disabled people has been in committee on several occasions, where it has been found that there are shortcomings in precisely the activities and rehabilitation measures for young people. I think that the financial coordination associations, Finsam, should be better used in this context. The government has also said that young people should be given priority in Finsam. The Red-Green Government improves the financial conditions for those who are on sick leave or have sickness and activity benefits. The ceiling of health insurance is raised. The guarantee levels, i.e. the floor, in the sickness and activity benefits are increased. Here, too, there will be a tax reduction. The housing allowance is increased. There will be better insurance conditions for entrepreneurs who are in the construction phase. Especially am I and the Green Party happy about what we have been running for a long time. As of July 2018, it will be possible for students to be half sick. In the past, it has only been possible for them to be completely ill. Even students who do not receive student funding should be able to maintain their sickness benefit-based income, which also strengthens the security of illness for students. Mr President, I would like to No one chooses voluntarily to be ill or to have a disability. Our security systems, not least health insurance, must be designed to guarantee at least a decent level of living rather than relative poverty. The Red Green Government has again presented a budget that is taking further steps towards this necessary objective. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-145	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Swedish Democrats have once again shown that they are on the side of the bourgeoisie. You have called for the approval of a bourgeois reservation which supports a longer deadline. That's what you've done. It is good that you clearly show the people where you stand on this issue. That is not something you have said in committee before. But it is good that it becomes clear what the alternatives in Swedish politics are. I would like to ask you in the Swedish Democrats—in fact, you have the opportunity to ask for a reply after my speech—if you are aware that, by calling for approval of the bourgeois's reservation, you actually stand to introduce a more distant deadline again. What are your reasons for this? Mr President, I would like to What we are debating today is a field of expenditure that consists of many different parts. We have now talked a great deal about health insurance. I would like to mention some parts of the report which are a little smaller but very important. One measure is the reinforcement of the protection of sickness benefit-based income, SGI. This budget provides for the protection of SGI pending the decision of the Social Insurance Agency during the period that you can actually now also receive sickness benefit, as Kerstin told you about. Work is also under way to strengthen SGI protection for students. We will come back to Parliament with proposals on this. It is important that people can feel confident in going from work to study and that we are thus trying to facilitate transition and career change. Another group, for which improvements are being continued, is self-employed. It is about the security of them in having a sickness benefit-based income. We need to improve the security systems for self-employed workers. The government will come back with proposals in this area as well. One group we need to highlight is the group of combinators. In the countryside, such as Orsa, from which I come, a large part of the entrepreneurs are combinators. It is one way to dare to start a business: to have a job at the same time. It is an important group to highlight. Financial security also needs to be strengthened for persons with activity and sickness benefits. We increased the guarantee levels in July this year. It is positive that with this budget there will be further increases from July 2018. In addition to this, there is an increase in the budget for those who have an activity and sickness benefit, already from January 2018. These are groups that often live in rather scarce economic conditions. That is why any increase is an extremely important contribution for those people who, because of their illness or disability, cannot participate fully in the labour market. The rules for the possibility of receiving sickness benefit are also something that is being worked on. The last area I want to mention is Finsam, financial coordination. The financial coordination associations around the country are doing an extremely important job of creating, through the means they have, opportunities for more people who are far from the labour market to return to work step by step. They also contribute to creating structures for cooperation between authorities. It is gratifying that the number of covenants is increasing and that more are thus given the opportunity to take their first steps. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the proposal in the Social Security Committee's report.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-156	Mr President, I would like to Many problems have been highlighted in the debate today. I get an almost Kafka-like feeling of the descriptions of the stingy control apparatus for those of us who have happened to get sick. I think you can get matte for less. I also think, with all due respect, that the debate, as I understand it, is stumblingly close to landing in the concept that organizational professor Mats Alvesson calls functional stupidity. This means, according to Professor Alvesson, the absence of critical reflection and a state of unity and consensus that causes the employees of an organization to avoid questioning decisions, structures and visions. Alvesson believes that this paradoxically can sometimes help to increase the productivity of a company or organisation in the short term. But in the long term, it could be its downfall. I think of the locking that the work line, and only the work line, is the solution to all the problems and the only possible way. If I've misunderstood anything, I'll be overjoyed if you correct me. But the work line has come to the end of the road. We have a situation that is completely unworthy of a society like ours. It is a rich society, in which people do not actually receive compensation when they are sick of the common insurance to which we all pay. This is completely unnecessary. Clearly, there is money if you want people to avoid insecurity and poverty when they are already in a vulnerable situation. Now I was going to talk about basic income, as a solution to this. It is a proposal that includes innovation. This applies, of course, not only when you become ill but also when you become unemployed and in life as a whole. However, the motion has ended up in this report, which deals with health insurance, and that is why I am addressing it now. We have an untenable situation. Many people in Sweden are outside social security even though they have done everything society demands of them and tried to make themselves employable, an otherwise terrible expression, I think. The precariat is growing. People have precarious jobs and live very precariously throughout their lives, because they do not know whether they have a livelihood the next day or not. We've got the automation. Less and less human work is needed in more and more areas of society. The robots will take over. It is, of course, a good thing, given that we are ensuring that the fruits of automation benefit everyone. We have growing social and economic divides and a gleaming environmental degradation. That's why we need to think new and not get caught up in some sort of functional stupidity. It is not a natural law for livelihoods to be linked to wage labour. It is also not the case that wage labour is a lifetime. Wage labour is only a part of the job, and it is only a part of life. Thus, unconditional basic income could solve a variety of problems in society and make life better for all of us, I would say. Such a basic income is just safe and predictable, which many have raised the fact that health insurance should be – although it is not. It would therefore be a question of money being paid out regularly and unconditionally to each individual at a level that ensures that the basic needs are met. Where that level would lie is, of course, something that requires more investigation and discussion. What, then, motivates such a great change? It is about freedom, economic security, security, predictability, poverty reduction and social justice. You can see unconditional basic income as a right, and that has been done throughout history ever since the Enlightenment. For example, philosopher Thomas Paine meant that we are all entitled to the fruits of nature and our common cultural heritage, because everyone who has been before us has been involved in creating it. Man has equal value, and in the case of nature it is only there for all of us. Sweden has also signed the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. An unconditional basic income for all would be a way of meeting the requirements of the Convention for everyone to have the right to live a dignified life on the basis of the country's conditions. So it is about people's equal value in practice and not just in words. Freedom: getting an unconditional basic income would free people from fear of poverty and from guardianship, which is indeed the case with regard to health insurance. It would also give freedom to develop in person, to participate in social life and to be active in democracy. In fact, it takes security to know, for example, that you can eat in order to get involved and come to your right. Maybe you want to start a business. Maybe you want to take care of your family. Maybe you want to take part in society. Then you have to have your basic needs filled first. It would also mean a freedom to say no to both wage labour on bad terms and to a bad relationship, if one is dependent on someone economically but cannot break free. Why should that freedom be reserved for people who have inherited money or won the lottery or the stock exchange? Why should only they be free to rule their lives and destiny? Social justice: Of course, it would be possible to reduce income and wealth gaps if everyone were given a base plate to live on. It would be an equal treatment of people that would really be needed now. We can all get sick and out of work. This is not about them or anyone else. It's not them, it's us, it's us all. That is why the basic income should be universal, just like the child benefit. It is also a way to explain people to the authorities. It could also be effective in eliminating the control apparatus, which is actually quite expensive. What could happen? This is not utopian; there is quite a lot of experience around the world, such as from India, Namibia, the United States and Canada. An interesting thing, when we discuss this report on economic safety in the event of illness and disability, is that people who have received even a small amount of money have improved their health. In India, attempts were made in a number of poor villages where everyone received a small amount of money. People could then afford to buy food, buy medicine, and invest in sewing machines, for example, to support themselves in the long run. They could also invest in toilets so that they didn't get sick from dirty water. Then, of course, we can say that India is a poor country and that it is not comparable to Sweden. But the United States is definitely a western country, and in the 70's, attempts were made in several cities in the United States and Canada with a similar system. One of the results was that people got better health. Would people stop working? No, you don't. On the contrary, in India and Namibia, for example, more power was given to work. You started working more when you were full, and you could also start a business. In the United States, there was a slight decline in wage labour, but it was mainly due to young people who worked to make a living when they were in high school being able to stop working and focus instead on their studies. More graduates, and that was a very good effect. Similarly, mothers of young children worked a little less and instead devoted themselves to caring for their children. Won't people be irresponsible? The poor won't spend the money on anything good. Will they not waste them on alcohol and tobacco? These are common objections, but it has turned out that the opposite is the case: you use money for food and medicine and not so much for alcohol and tobacco – perhaps because you are less desperate when you do not have to worry about livelihoods. There is a rather amazing example from Sierra Leone, an impoverished country, where alcoholic, abusive petty criminals received a small sum of money. What happened? It turned out that they did not buy more alcohol and drugs, but instead bought food, medicines, and clothing. Maybe if they did this, we'd all do it. There is an example from Blekinge– I wonder if something else has happened on that front – where a psychologist named Alain Alain a few years ago did an experiment with a group of long-term ill people. They had psychological diagnoses and, as I understand it, miserable lives. For nine months they received 500 kroner each month to use on just what they wanted. It turned out that they became healthier and needed less care because many of their problems were probably due to their poverty. They were alone, but they couldn't afford to buy their friends a cup of coffee. In some cases they were in poor condition, but they had no training shoes. Someone saved and bought training shoes and could start running and so on. What if it's sometimes much easier than we think? Why are you making such a mess of things? Why fix and patch in this Kafka-like control system? If we dared to do this alexander and actually introduce an unconditional basic income, so much good could come out of it. Of course, it is not a question of replacing all social security schemes, because if you need rehabilitation and other special needs, there must be money for it. But so much that could be dissolved anyway! So much could be better if we could have confidence and trust that people understand their own best and know what they need. I could talk a lot more about the attempts that have been made in the world and the good results that have been shown, but time has already run away. I just want to say that we in Sweden too have a responsibility to dare to think on these lines. Out in the world it is this big, and also in Sweden, outside the Parliament House, this is discussed. Various experiments with unconditional basic income have been started or planned in Finland, the Netherlands, Canada and France. In Scotland, a Labour councillor says that it is explicitly a question of eradicating the fears of people who are poor and dependent on some kind of social assistance. The Senate in California has proposed a national carbon tax that can be paid back to the residents and thus increase security. Why shouldn't we think that way? In Switzerland, there was a referendum in June 2016 to introduce an unconditional basic income at a fairly high level. Of the scant half that went and voted, approximately 23% voted in favour. This is interesting. Afterwards, the question was whether the result of the vote was finished. The answer was that it was seen as the beginning of a process. A conversation and a debate had started, and there will probably be more referendums. That is exactly what I wish for with the exercise that I and some others have caused. It is dealt with in the report. We need to talk about how an unconditional basic income can be introduced to everyone in Sweden. The current system is not working. It is basically about human perception, about what is important, what is valuable, who we should trust, who should have power and who should have freedom. With this I would like to take the opportunity to wish everyone a Merry Christmas. I would also recommend some Christmas reading. Basic Income : A Guide for the Open-Minded, Basic Income: A guide for the openly minded, by Professor Guy Standing. It's a book that I highly recommend. You will be happy and inspired if you take the time to read this, I dare promise. ( PRESIDENT: For the record, I would like to note that the speaking time used exceeded 75% of the time reported. )
i-51a09335ed8e043e-189	Mr President, I would like to With the government's policy on this issue, exclusion grows. However, before I go further on this issue, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Alliance's reservation 12 on the distant border and the Center Party's reservation 6. At the same time, I refer to our specific opinion. Everyone who can work is going to work. That is how the government wrote in its budgetary efforts. Today, however, more people are taking sick leave, while applications for sickness benefit are rejected as never before. The government is trying to reduce sickness rates by denying people compensation. It is not only irresponsible but also inhumane. People are forgotten. They are too sick to work according to the doctors, too healthy according to Försäkringskassan and not able to work according to Arbetsförmedlingen. They are simply left out of the system. It is people who could actually work as long as they received support and help. The Social Insurance Agency rejects applications for sickness benefit. The rejection of ongoing cases of illness – listen now – is at a higher level than they were in 2009. This takes place in Sweden of the Social Democrats in 2017. The Social Insurance Agency has, as everyone knows, the task of the government to reduce the costs of sick leave. Doctors' medical certificates are questioned and patients are denied compensation on questionable grounds. Often it is about the diagnosis of mental illness. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency currently has a duty of investigation and coordination, which the Swedish Social Insurance Agency does not actually fulfil. According to the Social Security Inspection, only one third of the case assessments at 90 days, i.e. at three months, are of sufficient quality. It is therefore rejected, and of course extended sick leave, on incorrect grounds. Both of those reasons are catastrophic. Three months is too long to be on sick leave if you can get help, or if you can get extended sick leave and help. Mr President, I would like to This means that people with illness and reduced working capacity are excluded, when society is actually going to help increase the proportion of the population working. That is why I, and of course the Center Party, want to strengthen rehabilitation. It is with early intervention, frequent follow-ups and reconciliation meetings with the sick person, employer, Försäkringskassan and doctor. It does not exist today. There is very little evidence of this. The Center Party also wants to see a shorter first period of sick leave. The most common period of sick leave today is one month. Of course it should be shortened. Three months, 90 days, which I mentioned just now is far too long. There is therefore a need for more part-time than full-time sick leave and greater flexibility in returning to work. By flexibility, I mean the following. Of course, when returning to work after a period of illness, you are a little stressed and worried. It's no wonder. The important thing is then that the work capacity of the persons is tested. It may vary week by week. Therefore, solutions are needed for a gradual return to work for the person on sick leave. The person in question must be tested for how much he can work. That is not possible today! The most important thing is to be able to work in some form and break the isolation from exclusion. Getting back to work faster, getting one foot into the labour market, is much better than having both feet outside. Flexibility is important. The Center Party also proposes that we introduce the far border. Now the government also expects long-term sick leave to increase. Is that what they wanted to achieve, that is, that people should get further away from the labour market? You should think about it and change it. That's wrong. The far border is extremely important, so that people are not left without contact. They will receive follow-up, support and assistance. At the far border, the sick person must be tested against the labour market to find suitable full-time or part-time work. Of course, those who are ill or injured and unable to work at all should then have compensation or care and rehabilitation. But the distant border is extremely important for people not to be left in thin air. There is also a need for better health insurance for entrepreneurs. There are also poor proposals on the part of the government. We need to help ensure that you can keep your job and start a business at the same time. It is important from the point of view of equality because that is what women do. They do not dare to start a business because it is about what sickness benefit they can receive. Something must be done about this. This is important, we believe in the Center Party. These proposals provide a safer and better health insurance. Sickness rates are reduced by helping people get back to work. However, the government says that in this area of expenditure the achievement of the objectives has been achieved. Yes, but with methods and means that are irresponsible and inhumane when people are insured and denied sickness benefit. If you do as we in the Center Party suggest, more will also get into the heat and get more humane care.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-203	Mr President, I would like to Solveig Zander says that with government policy, exclusion grows. I would like to say that it is political rhetoric when it is at its worst. There are considerably more people in work now than when you ruled Sweden. It sounds to Solveig Zander that all rejections now depend on the government. I think this is a bit of strange political rhetoric. In fact, it is largely your legislation that we are still living with in health insurance, and that is something that we need to fix. It was not enough that we removed the distant parentheses. We need to further improve the legislation that you introduced in order to create safe and predictable insurance, as Kerstin Nilsson said. Solveig Zander brought up entrepreneurs. We have said that there are proposals for improvements for entrepreneurs in the field of security insurance.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-206	Mr President, I would like to There's more to work. I wish I could say that it depends on the government's way of controlling health insurance. But that is not the case, and we know it. That is because we have a much better labour market today than we did in the last few years of the alliance government. You cannot take credit for that in this respect. When it comes to blaming that health insurance is poor and not handled properly: Who controls the agency Försäkringskassan? Everyone knows that it is the government that controls the authority and will help it to handle matters properly. It's obvious. The last point I do not really remember, I have to be honest and admit. Well, it was about the companies. "It's coming," says the Social Democrats. I've heard a lot coming. We had a parliamentary social security inquiry which had several concrete proposals that could have been addressed on the first day of the formation of a government. They didn't. Many of those proposals are still unimplemented, so I find it very difficult to trust them. When you yourself say about the far border that you think more people are going to get a longer sick leave, do you think from the government that you have succeeded in supporting and helping people to get back to work?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-210	Mr President, I would like to It is strange that when things go well for Sweden when you run it is thanks to you, but when things go well for Sweden when we control we obviously have nothing at all to do with it. Then nothing is based on politics. Strange reasoning. As far as the distant parentheses are concerned, our view is this: you do not get well because you become poor. Cohesion is not created by the deterioration of those with low remuneration and by tax cuts that benefit those who earn the most. Instead, it creates gaps. It does not create cohesion. It creates inequality. Societys with high inequalities and large gaps are not safe societies – quite the contrary. It creates insecurity. We can well say that ideologically we are a long way from each other on these issues. With regard to the proposals that will come, it is precisely on the basis of the investigation that has been carried out.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-213	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, we are a long way from each other in this regard. You don't get well if you don't get any money, no. That's exactly what I said. What is now being done is to reject applications for sickness benefit, for sickness benefit. This means that those who are rejected are without compensation, and who in today's Sweden can live without money? Of course, it's about getting help and support. That is what we want to do from the Center Party – we want to help people get help and support to get back to work. That is when you get income, and that is when you come into the Community. To raise the contributions, all the contributions that you are now going to raise, does that mean that people will come back to work faster? No, definitely not! We are extremely far apart in this context. When it comes to beating your chest and saying that when you control or do not control things, we all know that the economic cycle goes up and down. We know that it is much easier to get a job today, when it is booming. But Gud forbid that it in some way folds down again! That would be devastating. We must work in every way to get people to help them get into work. That's what's important. Then no one's outside. To rule that way, any government can do. We did so during the time of the Alliance, and the Center Party intends to continue to do so after the next election. I can promise you that.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-219	Mr President, I would like to My friends and colleagues in this House! This morning there were 11⁄2 million children who went up, brushed their teeth and hopefully had breakfast – if they also made the bed, they probably made their parents happy – before they went to school. There they were met by 200,000 teachers. Together, these children and young people and teachers take one of the greatest responsibilities they can take for their own lives and together for our country. They progress, they challenge their own skills, they struggle and tear every day to learn more and grow as human beings. Mr President, I would like to Schools and education are by far the most important instrument we have to create fair opportunities in a world full of inequality. We're all born with different conditions. We all have different backgrounds, and we develop different interests and abilities. But it is at school that we meet to build life chances on common ground. This is not just how we make class travel possible; so do we build our whole country stronger. With skills, we enable more competitive companies, and with access to skills development, we enable lifelong learning and create adaptability. Mr President, I would like to In a country that fully believes in the idea that it is where you are going that matters and not where you come from, who believes that that idea is real and not just a worn-out political cliché, it is an idea that obliges. Creating a level playing field for all requires that the knowledge mission be the focus. Let us be clear here that we in Sweden have failed in the compensatory mission. When the knowledge mission has had to stand down, it is those who have the worst conditions that have suffered the worst. Those who are well placed simply do well. The differences today are too large between municipalities, between schools and between classrooms. It's an unreasonable order. Every parent should be able to feel confident that their children go to a good school when they leave in the morning. Mr President, I would like to Swedish education policy and school deserve higher ambitions. We know from research and proven experience that high expectations of students' ability and knowledge development are crucial to achieving good results in school. For far too long, however, Swedish education has been characterised by excuses, and it is time for us to have high expectations of the students' development, the teachers' competence and our principals' leadership. But it is also high time that the Swedish people put higher expectations on our education policy. Sweden currently has considerably less teaching time than other comparable countries. In comprehensive school, Swedish pupils lose a full academic year compared to others. In some of our high school programmes, we have half as much teaching time as in other countries. Swedish students and students go to school for long days but receive far too little teaching. This is not sustainable if we want to be anything but mediocre in the long term. Quality in teaching is and remains Moderate priority number one in school. To make this possible, a greater focus on subject knowledge and skills is needed. The central content of knowledge needs to be made clearer, and the task of knowledge needs to be put at the centre once again. Mr President, I would like to A prerequisite for this is that there is order in school – that Swedish teachers and students have the security and peace of mind that is actually needed for them to be able to perform. Sweden is today unfortunately the world leader when it comes to late arrivals and bad order, when we compare ourselves with other countries in, among other countries, PISA. Half of the students report to the School Inspectorate that they are disturbed in class. A quarter of the teachers say that they have been subjected to threats or violence. Yesterday, a student was murdered at a Swedish school. A life was extinguished when it just started. Another student has forever ruined his own life. This is a tragedy without its like on a personal level, but it is also a problem for our entire school system when students and parents cannot trust that the security that should be in school is there. Reforms are needed to clarify responsibilities and competences. Evidence-based approaches to threats, harassment and insulting treatment must enter the school, and the school must become a place of security and peace of mind. Mr President, I would like to Perhaps the most important instrument for developing Swedish schools is our teachers. I would say that politics has long overestimated its own role and underestimated the role of teachers in school change. Quality is not something that arises either in the municipality's annual accounts or in rating. Quality arises when skilled teachers meet students in the classroom, convey their knowledge and help students develop their own skills and knowledge. Swedish politics needs to focus more on giving teachers better opportunities. We have had a positive development over the last decade, which must continue. Teacher education needs to include more subject knowledge, more leadership and more subject education, and the teaching time for teachers needs to increase. We also need to ensure that the best teachers get the chance to work in the schools that have the toughest challenges. It is therefore high time that we developed the career service reform and made sure that the teachers with the strongest qualifications take on working in the excluded areas. The Commission's proposal on the development of professional programmes and skills development for teachers goes hand in hand with what has also been proposed by the Alliance in the past. It is a welcome development if we can get this in place so that we do not have to rely on that it is only teacher training that gives competence for a whole career but that teachers can also continue to develop in their professional role and want to remain in the career path instead of leaving it. Mr President, I would like to One thing is clear if we are to succeed in compensating for the lack of equivalence in Swedish schools: The state must be prepared to take greater responsibility for the schools that underpresence. As has been said, the differences are too great today, not primarily between municipalities and between schools, but actually between classrooms. This is not a system that can be accepted. Collaboration for the best school, which the Red-Green Government has started together with the Swedish National Agency for Education, clearly shows that good competence exists at the Swedish National Agency for Education to actually develop the schools that have the toughest conditions. But that competence does not reach where it is most needed. Therefore, the Moderates have proposed that we establish national quality requirements for schools and other welfare areas so that it will be possible to follow up in which schools and which classrooms you succeed in the knowledge mission and in which you do not. Where one fails, knowledge contracts must be signed so that action can be taken by the principal and the state together. Anyone who does not want to participate or who fails and does not deliver what has been promised will suffer severe reprisals. This shall apply regardless of the principal. If we are to have high expectations of our students and teachers, we must also have high expectations that politics delivers. Let it be clear once and for all: It is no right in this country to run a bad school. On the contrary, every child has the right to attend a good school. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by saying that Sweden needs a school of knowledge – in order to cope with change and competitiveness and to enable life chances. This requires a school with higher ambitions and a focus on knowledge, where students and teachers have peace of mind. The Moderates and the Alliance are willing to take responsibility and political leadership to make this possible. Unfortunately, however, the Riksdag has chosen to support the Government's proposal for a budget. Thus, Sweden's students and students will have to wait another year for more reforms for knowledge and order in school.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-244	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start where the previous speaker left off. We had, as the speaker may not agree, a chance to actually bring down the government's budget. But the other parties chose not to vote as we proposed, that is, on a common alliance budget, and then we ended up where we are today. Today we are going to talk about the budget, Mr President, and I intend to come back to the very point of money. But first I want to talk about a few other things. It was incredibly nice to read an article written by Isak Skogstad, former chairman of the Student Association of Teachers. For he slaughters a sacred cow that no one dared slaughter: teacher training. We can change and reform, Mr President, as many times as possible, but as long as the teacher training is as it is, with the same educator all the time, the end result is the same. There are far too many educators who are far too far from reality and would have to get out of business. Because school today is more or less separated from society, instead of the other way round, Mr President, it is going to be very crazy. I will ask Mr President to think very far back, to the time when he was a little parvel and I myself was a little child. It was about the Stone Age we were so young. Then we had teachers with a very good education. They were knowledgeable in their subject and had a good leadership training, and above all they were educationally knowledgeable. Then teacher training has changed over and over again. We have spread teacher education in more and more different higher education institutions. When the OECD was here watching, they suggested that we remove about ten of the teaching colleges we have today because they are not of quality. What, then, made this best teacher that Mr. President might have thought of before when I talked about school – we all have some teacher we think of as the best – the best one? Most often it was that you were a subject expert, was a good leader and educator and was present. You had time, and you could be a good teacher. Are there many good teachers in the system today? Yes, Mr President, there are an incredible number of good teachers. But they can't be good teachers, and I'll get back to why. What made this teacher good? Well, that's because you didn't let anyone into teacher training. It was a certain standard. Today, for the second time, it turns out that you can re-enter teacher training with a result of 0.05 from the university test. I do not think it is the next generation of good teachers who have such low results in this test of knowledge. What do we need to do? Maybe we should make sure we have joint tests on all teacher training. If you study mathematics in teacher education, regardless of which university or college you study at, it should be ensured once a year that it is the same quality of all educations. It can be done with a simple digital test. For example, can all Pythagorean's Pythagoras or not? Do they understand that when they go to school? Maybe it should be like in Singapore, where you walk next to someone before you even apply for teacher training. The state pays for one or two months to be able to walk next to a skilled and knowledgeable teacher in this Singapore model, which I will talk about later. There you can directly determine if a person has what it takes to become a good teacher. Jönköping University and Linnaeus University have introduced an aptitude test. 3 – 5 per cent of all pupils who chose to do the aptitude test were not allowed to proceed because they were directly unsuitable. We need to clean up teacher training, and we need to make sure that it actually contains things that are important to it. How do we do this? We can start by listening to the companies. In fact, it is the companies that are going to hire the pupils who come out of education. There's something we have to work on. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the car will not be better than the training provided by the mechanic. If we translate this into school, I think most people understand what I'm talking about. I promised to get back to the money, and I will now. Is it more money that we need in the Swedish school system? Are there more billions that we need to put in? No, it's not. The country that has succeeded best in the world with its school, Singapore, uses 3.3% of its gross domestic product for school. In Sweden we spend 5.6 percent, almost twice as much money. But we are nowhere near the outcome in Singapore. I do not think that a bathtub that leaks because it has a lot of holes will be filled if you add more water. I think you should fix the holes first. How do we do this? We have proposed the Singapore model as a model that has 18 different levels, focusing on subject knowledge, leadership training or pedagogical knowledge. In this Singapore model there are enough different levels for all teachers to find their place. Of course, there are different levels of knowledge among teachers; strange would it be otherwise. Here's the opportunity. There is indeed also a real pay gap for these people. Erik Bengtzboe, who is a wise person, mentioned one thing but forgot to say another thing. It is because the Swedish students have 200 more hours in school than the children in Singapore. So this is not about the number of hours, it is about the quality of the hours you have in the classroom. We have already proposed on-call classes and also duty schools. Once again, and I agree with the previous speaker, a person has been killed because we have no safety in Swedish schools today. When we attended school in our day, there were also problems, but not at the level of today. You didn't stab, you didn't stab and you didn't beat up. This didn't exist. Above all, Mr President, these problems were not as far down in the ages – in the age of 12 – 13 – as they are today. There are major problems about this. We've proposed duty school. Somewhere we have to decide that the pupils who are in the Swedish school system must be protected when they go to Swedish school. School of education simply means removing the student who is under investigation or who has been found guilty of a crime until he can handle this student properly. We cannot continue to sacrifice those students in the classroom who actually want to learn anything. What solutions do we present from the Swedish Democrats in our budget? It's about the outside staff. Who are they? Yes, it is the staff that the municipalities have been using as budget regulator since 1991. Once the budget has been a bit bad, the Swedish school system has been cut a little bit further, a little bit more and a little bit more. We teachers are a little stupid in the head, so we do these things too. Let's do it, then we'll do some more and so on. Finally, we stop, change our profession or sign up for sick leave. That's how teachers like people are. We're empathetic, and we want to do everything. We can't stand by and watch a student feel bad. Then we turn ourselves inside out. When you cut the number of curators, nurses, school doctors and all the staff around the teachers, then the teachers must do so too, because we teachers want it to work. We turn ourselves inside out. Nationalisation of many of the things that are currently on the municipalities would mean savings both in terms of money and in terms of pupils. How is it that in 20 years we have ended up where we are today, in a school that has so much trouble? I would venture to guess, Mr President, that it is precisely because of the cutbacks in peripheral staff, which means that teachers do not have the energy to be good teachers. We lose both knowledge and people who can take care of students who are not well. If you don't have anyone to talk to, you don't go into the classroom and talk to, but then you become active in the classroom. We have also proposed preparation school, so that the new arrivals who come to Sweden actually know Swedish before entering the classroom and that they can actually assimilate the education given in the normal Swedish classroom. There you need to go until you can actually assimilate the Swedish language cognitively, socially and in terms of knowledge. It's nice to hear that even the Moderates have thought as we have when it comes to academy schools, which we brought with us from England when we were there – a state takeover of the schools that don't work; it doesn't matter whether they're private or municipal. We have to go in and make sure that a school year after year cannot underperform; that is not possible. It would be nice to have a cup of coffee with Erik and talk about this. Then perhaps we can come up with a good plan for this, including with the other parties. Mr President, I would like to The most important thing for all our teachers, students and colleagues out there is long-termness. Let's fight about little things in here at school. I'm sure we'll make things up that we can fight about. But a long-term approach to the most important and fundamental things is what the Swedish school system needs, not a lot of new reforms. We have also proposed that the Karen's Day be removed for teachers and all staff at school. Everyone who works as a teacher knows that when you work as a teacher these dear children are quite snotty at certain times of the year. If you as a teacher get a Karen's Day when you get sick – a teacher's salary is not too big to live on – you go to school anyway and work. Then you infect your colleagues and others. I don't know how many fellow teachers have come into the coffee room and coughed and said they shouldn't really be there. No, they shouldn't really be. But you do it anyway, because you don't want to push all the responsibility over your colleagues. But we suggest that the Karen Day be removed for teachers and all staff at school. What do we want the school to look like? I believe very much that we need a society that sits together. We cannot, as we do today, allow the school and the rest of civil society to live separately. We need to make sure they're connected. This is done with small and simple means, such as ensuring that work-oriented teaching is conducted. We'll make sure the companies come in and tell the schools what they want. I don't know. It's been years since I worked as a teacher, and I don't know exactly what the companies want today. Also, teacher training does not directly include good further education in terms of what teachers need and what students need. At the moment, teacher education is very flexible, and that is good, because society is very flexible. Given that society is as flexible as it is, we do not know what students need to be able to do in ten years' time. That's why it's so incredibly important that we work together with the business community, where the students are actually going. What's the school really? It's quite a few years of a way to try to learn how to learn. By embracing these things and by having contact with society, one suddenly knows why one is studying. Let me give you an example. I was on a study visit to a company with a student in grade 5 or 6. All of a sudden, the student's eyes got so big. He came into a company that he realized he wanted to work at. He said, "The Master, here I want to work." I said don't talk to me. Talk to whoever owns the company. This student did. He walked up and talked to the person who owned the company. The owner of the company told the student what to do – that he would finish grade 9 with some grades, that he would choose a certain high school orientation, that he would take a driver's license and that he would summer work at the company as much as he could. This student had 100 percent motivation during the rest of his or her studies. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I wish all fellow teachers, all principals, all students in Sweden and also my colleagues in Parliament a nice Christmas.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-272	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll have to thank Stefan Jakobsson and the Swedish Democrats for the coffee invitation. I do not think, however, that what Sweden's schools need is more coffee breaks, but I think that what is needed is more reforms for strengthened knowledge. I think that's where we're going to start. If the Swedish Democrats are primarily interested in coffee, I think there are other political parties you can do it together with and where you have more success on the coffee front. The Swedish school needs reforms to strengthen knowledge development. Such a reform would be to make comprehensive school ten years old by ensuring that the preschool class actually became the new grade 1. It is something this Parliament has decided several times before, but the Swedish Democrats have changed their feet there. It has followed the line of the Red-Green Government and has chosen to make the preschool class compulsory instead. The preschool class thus falls outside the important parts of the curriculum and the school law, which would have been the great advantage of incorporating it into primary school. Then even pedagogy could have been used all the way through. We also know from modern research that the pupils' view of the preschool class is that it gives a feeling that two people are starting school twice. Instead of having coffee, perhaps the Swedish Democrats should instead consider how strict they are in their policies and deliver reforms that actually lead to increased knowledge development. Mr President, I would like to This also raises some other questions about how the Swedish Democrats actually view education policy. It stands in the speaker's chair and claims that more money is not the solution, but anyone who reads the Swedish Democrats' draft budget sees that it is about more money everywhere. There are small investments everywhere, ranging from upgrading schoolyards to financing school uniforms to Sweden's students. This is a recurring theme from the Swedish Democrats, in committee after committee and in area by area: Money should be thrown away on all problems, quite simply. It forces me to question the seriosity of the policy of the Swedish Democrats.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-276	Madam President, I would like If you have worked as a teacher in a system where reforms have been carried out five times during a short teacher's career, you realise quite early that there are no more twitchy reforms we need. Instead, we need a long-term policy. I understand that Erik Bengtzboe thinks it's fun to make fun of this with coffee breaks, absolutely, but what we politicians need to do is actually sit down and agree on a long-term policy – just like Finland did. I think it was 1985, Madam President, that Finland decided that it was time to stop fighting about school. All political parties sat down, and since then half a reform has been carried out. During the same time, Sweden has implemented five major reforms. There are no more reforms we need. Whether you think we've changed feet or not depends enough on whether you read what we've written from the beginning. We are wave champions in the Swedish parliament, and for this reason we can sometimes try to force different steps from the different parties. Because the different parties consistently choose not to talk to us, no matter how good the politics we have, and since the Moderates of the past year have chosen to copy extremely much of our politics – constantly, all the time – and run into different subjects, the question is: Why not sit down and talk about these issues? No, we haven't changed foot, Erik Bengtzboe. If you read exactly what we have written from the beginning, you will see that we were in the middle of this matter. The government was somewhere far out on the edge, and the Alliance was a little closer to us at the time. Then the government has approached us, and all of a sudden the government's proposal was closer to our original proposal than the Alliance was. Then we choose to enforce the policy that is closest to our hearts and not what the Alliance thinks. If you feel betrayed by it, it's your problem, not mine.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-280	Madam President, I would like Yes, that Swedish school does not need thorny reforms, but long-term rules of the game are quite correct. That is precisely why it is so remarkable that the Swedish democrats do not see the beam in their own eyes. A number of times the Swedish Parliament supports a line in which the preschool class is made part of primary school, which means that there is a political majority and that this would be possible. Then you turn around, back up and change the conditions for all of Sweden's primary schools. It is not a serious way of conducting politics. One can certainly argue that changes should be made in steps, and one can certainly argue that it is possible to change feet. But to change feet so often, so quickly and as unseriously as the Swedish Democrats do is simply not something that contributes to long-termness. Stefan Jakobsson says this today, Madam President. What he will say next week and where this goes then we will simply see. Madam President, I would like To conclude, let me note the lack of history that I think Stefan Jakobsson expressed in his speech in the speaker's chair. He gave the impression that threats, violence and insecurity are a new problem in Swedish society, and that is simply not correct. It has certainly become a more precarious and less orderly situation at Sweden's schools, but to give the impression that threats, violence and even – in absolutely worst cases – death is something new is not serious. Instead, it is something that unfortunately goes hand in hand with the overall political agenda of the Swedish Democrats – to suspect people who come from other countries and choose to settle in Sweden.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-285	Madam President, I would like If Erik Bengtzboe, who is still a fairly good statistician, had read Brå's latest report, he would have known that all crimes except property crimes have increased in Sweden in the last ten years. I therefore welcome the fact that he is reading the statistics. Whether the people who commit the crimes have different hair color, skin colour or origin, I have not said a word about, and I find it very sad if we are to have that debate here. It has been shown, most recently in Aftonbladet and earlier in Today's Society, that the Swedish Democrats have more foreign-born representatives than the Moderates, Center Party, Liberals and KD in municipalities and county councils. In this way, it is very strange that we should discuss this at all in the debate. You can lie with statistics, but in this case it does not actually lie. What is it that the Swedish Democrats want? Well, we want more money in the right place and not do as we do today, that is, just cash in in the hope that it will solve the problems. Instead, we invest in specific things that we know have an effect on the whole. As a Swedish democrat, I do not know what to say when it comes to being called a race-turner and being told that you change your mind quickly. There is a funny name for the Moderates that has to do with copying machines and means that you change fast, often and very much – especially after the change of party leader. I hope that the Moderates themselves know what policy they are currently pursuing. If it is something the Swedish Democrats stand for, it is conservatism, and we stand by our line. That it doesn't fit the Alliance or the government is their problem, as I said, not ours. With that I would like to wish Erik Bengtzboe a Merry Christmas.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-290	Madam President, I would like It paints for Christmas. I think we all know what a hectic period it is in many schools, and I would like to express my admiration for the hard work that students and teachers have done in the past year. It's about completing many of the projects you've been working on and about different tests, but it's also in many schools about practicing for lucia, Christmas games and so on. It is thus a period when students get the opportunity to both discuss knowledge results and actually engage in a lot of fun things, and it is important that the school sees the whole student in different ways. This is a budget report in which we have the opportunity to discuss the whole area of the school, and that is why it is an important debate. It covers everything from pre-school education to adult education, higher education and research. I think it is extremely important that we describe reality in different ways as it is, with the challenges that exist and with the actual proposals that exist from the various political parties. I would like to mention from the outset that the Centre Party has a specific opinion in the report. As the budgetary framework has been set in the past and we do not have the same approach as the government in our draft budget, we therefore choose not to take part in the decision. Something I appreciate about the government budget but still is frustrated about, if we're going to start at that end, are the special-destined state subsidies. It is good that you write that you should do something about them next year, but it is a pity that in this year's budget you do not have the greater ability to actually counteract the twitchiness that exists in the business in different ways. I meet many local politicians who are extremely frustrated, and I know that the government also feels it. The various state grants are applied for depending on how popular they are, and you do not get the same as the previous year. Instead, it can decrease by as much as 90 percent compared to what was previously spent on various initiatives, not least in the field of pupil health. In this context, I will also say that one cannot blame only one or the other. From the national level, we have all, in different ways, wanted to be strong in the political, and special-destined state subsidies have been used as such a powerful measure. But now that we see what it looks like in reality, I think we have a joint responsibility to create long-term prospects for the Swedish school in different ways so that it can continue to work on the important quality mission it has. It was with pleasure that we received the little change that had taken place in Pirl when you looked at the reading ability of the students in grade 4 in the Swedish school. It is clear that we know that it is pupils and teachers who have in various ways earned the positive mention of that improvement. But we as politicians also need to think about how we can continue to provide support to work on this quality development in the long term. There are some things that I think threaten the security of working long-term. One thing is the free choice of school and the criticism that is always there. This may not be aimed precisely at the free choice of schools, but at quite a large number of schools, both for preschools, primary schools and upper secondary schools. I am thinking of the issue of welfare gains. A small issue is being raised, which actually interferes with the work of many of these schools in a way that eventually also affects students. Another issue, mentioned earlier in the debate, concerns ten-year primary school. I think it is a great pity that the government did not dare to take the full step and let the students begin their work once. Instead, we still have this intermediate year, which in itself in a number of places is really good and which does not create a vacuum but well an intermediate step. I know that many are satisfied with their own children's preschool class activities, but if we look at the big picture, we can see that unfortunately there are too many activities that are not of the quality that would be expected of them. This means that the development of knowledge is not as good as it should be. In the last line we heard a small analysis from Stefan Jakobsson about who had moved towards whom. The Swedish Democrats were somehow the so-called stability in the middle, while the other parties had moved in various directions. I would like to discuss this further with Stefan Jakobsson on occasion – unfortunately he is not in the room now. A very important challenge, which I know we share a common view, is about the lack of teachers. We do not have enough qualified, qualified teachers, and teachers may not teach the subjects for which they are qualified. Here I wish there was a greater courage to think about things in different ways. What do we do over the next five, six, or seven years when we now say that 50 000 — 60 000 teachers are missing? We know that it will take quite a long time to overcome this challenge. For example, we have proposed that the teacher's ID be waived. This is not because we do not think that teacher identification is an important part of quality work, but because we need to think about how to create sustainability in different ways. For those students who attend school right now, the next six seven years will correspond to most of their school hours. We therefore have a particular responsibility to think about these things. Then the best must not be the enemy of good, so that we are unable to take a number of steps along the way to strengthen it. I guess I'll just say there's a lot going on, too. Teach for Sweden was raised in the debate yesterday, and we are doing the same today in connection with investments in the Center Party's budget. From the Center Party we call this a competence development guarantee, and we see great similarities with the professional development programmes in the School Commission's proposal. These parts are important for us to be able to continue working with. Another part that I would like to mention, which I regard as a threat that affects the school negatively, is that we do not really ensure that there is good quality in education for newcomers. We are not giving the full amount of time needed. It sounds good when you say that you have individual study plans, but if they are too low in quality and have sufficient time, they do not mean a good start for young people who come to our country and will learn the language and the other things that are needed to get started with their development in a good way. We have proposed some form of intensive training in order to strengthen this in various ways. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention what has been on the agenda in various ways and has been very topical, although this may be a sloppy expression. It's about the metoo roll call. It is clear that these for the school have been painful to read. As a teacher, it has been painful to read about students' experiences – not least about students who have told different teachers and principals but have not been believed or taken seriously. I think we all carry these stories with us. It is also about how teachers have experienced that they have been treated by students and about the treatment between students. It is extremely important that we consider how to move forward. The other day I had a conversation with Helene Hellmark Knutsson about the teacher training. I was very pleased when the Minister opened up to look at the different parts of teacher education in terms of sex and cohabitation education and valuation issues as well as in terms of graduation goals. There is no promise to do anything, but there is an opening to strengthen it so that the governance documents become as powerful as they must be in this context. It is important that the school is a safe environment. The terrible news we received yesterday has already been mentioned here, so I will not go into this further. Of course, it is extremely painful to think about everything that it means when it even becomes so that a student's life ends on school day. Not least, it is painful for the teachers and students present at the same school, given the insecurity that arises. It is important here that students and teachers receive the support they need. Thankfully, this happens very rarely. However, this has happened before, and it is important that we continue to work on this issue. Madam President, I would like I would now like to come back to something positive about the government's policy. I do not know if I will have the opportunity to do so later in the debate, but I would like to thank Minister Ekström for what was decided yesterday on what the whole Parliament has supported with regard to the possibility of post-secondary education for pupils who have attended special upper secondary school or similar. I regard this as extremely important. Several alliance parties have exercised it, and the whole committee supported it. I know that this is an issue that many different parties have pursued. It feels very positive that this is now coming, and I look forward to the opportunity to develop it. I know that the Minister has, for example, taken note of the activities of SV Kulturcollege in Örebro. There are models that could be used quite quickly. As I said, thank you for that. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say something about what is important for the Center Party in terms of training for jobs. The investments contained in our budget include, among other things, investments in young entrepreneurship, in order to link this closer to the business community in various ways. It is also about investments in universities of applied sciences. Power shall remain as close as possible to those who decide on the activities. I see this as an extremely important quality factor. It is also about providing skills and providing pupils with the guidance and support they need. This is why it is a question of study and career guidance and of investment in leadership. My hope is that in different ways – both through a strong opposition policy and, on a number of issues, together with the government – we will ensure that we are able to strengthen the quality of the Swedish school. It is for the sake of the students that we have these extremely important proposals in various ways to do so. Once again, I would like to say that we are not taking part in the decision, but that we have a special opinion, in which much more of what is our policy is described. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, my committee colleagues and – above all – all students and teachers in the Swedish school a really nice Christmas holiday!
i-51a09335ed8e043e-323	Madam President, I would like I too would like to begin by expressing the sadness I felt when I read stories from school and other parts of society in connection with metoo, as well as the sadness I felt when I took part in the tragic event that happened yesterday – unfortunately similar events have occurred in Swedish schools on previous occasions. The school should be a place to go with joy and thirst for knowledge – not with fear and despair. This debate is about the whole educational system, from preschool to research. We have a specific opinion, but we are not taking part in the decision. However, let me start somewhere in the middle of the entire education system, namely the figure of 18 600. So many were the students who were told last spring that they were not qualified for upper secondary school. After nine years of primary school, they were told that they had not acquired the skills they needed to get to upper secondary school. If you imagine that there are 30 students in each class, it is 600 school classes filled with young people who are in the middle of life and who hope to get on with joy, either to upper secondary school or to working life, and to take part in life in different ways. 600 classrooms filled with students who did not succeed in gaining comprehensive school knowledge did not get into upper secondary school. The percentage of qualified persons has fallen in recent years, and this is perhaps one of the biggest concerns we have at the moment in Swedish politics. If you do not get qualified in comprehensive school – comprehensive school is called because it will deliver the foundation both in terms of knowledge and in other ways – you have very difficult to move on to something else. You don't get into high school, and you're having a hard time getting on to work. It is also difficult to participate fully in society in other ways. It is incredibly worrying that 18 600 students are met with this message, and this is the only one this year. Madam President, I would like We must ensure that every human being is given another chance, then another chance and then another chance. It is incredibly important to pass the skills needed to enter upper secondary school, whether you want to go to upper secondary school or not, because primary school is, as I said, the basis for much else. We must ensure that more people succeed early and make it through primary school. Even if we have safety nets that catch up later, we need to ensure that you really do get through primary school. This requires a clear focus on knowledge, on peace of mind, on the individual student's needs, opportunity and ability, and a clear signal from the whole of society that we value the school very highly. Every student must work as hard as she or he can. Every adult, especially the parents of course, must also contribute. Everyone has to say, this school thing is very important. I'm willing to help in the way I can. Of course, parents have a special responsibility. However, all adults in society must help to upgrade school and think about how they can ensure that more people succeed in school, because nothing is more important to either the individual or society as a whole. Madam President, I would like You have to start early. That's why it's important that preschool works really well. Swedish preschool is really good, but more should attend preschool. Preschools should aim more than they do today for more people to learn more and get a little sneeze at the knowledge of reading and writing and the secrets of mathematics. We need an inspection to ensure that preschool delivers what you want it to do according to the curriculum. But we must also have a school start at the age of six, instead of the mischmasch that the government is now introducing. We need a primary school with more time. There is too little teaching time and too few lessons in Swedish school. There should be more time in the early stages, above all, because it is so incredibly crucial that you keep up with it from the start and get basic knowledge of reading, writing and counting as early as possible. We need more order in Swedish schools, more focus on knowledge and more support early. We know that the sooner the aid is put in place, the more likely it will be to be useful later on. We need a policy of improving teacher training and making it more difficult to get into teacher training, because it is the best-placed who are going there, not those who do not get into other programmes. We need to have higher admission requirements for teacher education, higher status, higher pay, further career paths but also further training. It is funny that for such an important profession as a teacher, who is so focused on knowledge development, there is no proper training plan. Something that has really fallen behind in Swedish school since the municipalisation is the view of the teachers and their status but also their opportunities for further education. We must be creative when it comes to attracting more people to the teaching profession. We must be creative in a way that does not harm quality, for we shall have the most skilled teachers and principals. The headmaster must be given the opportunity to be the headmaster, the head teacher. And we must ensure, Madam President, that new arrivals are given a better chance than they are today. It is clear that many of those who have not been able to reach comprehensive school's knowledge requirements have come late to Sweden. Those who have arrived early in Sweden succeed quite well. But those who come later in primary school age have a little more difficulty with it, and that's not surprising. If I had come to a Spanish elementary school when I was in sixth grade, I would have had quite a hard time succeeding in the few years that were left. Therefore, there must be the possibility of longer schooling, longer compulsory schooling and more hours, but also the resources for proper help for those students who come late to primary school. Upper secondary school needs to be more flexible. There must be a better chance of taking an apprenticeship for those who are more able to learn in this way. It is a very good way forward in working life. However, there is also a need for clearer requirements for higher education qualifications. When high school does not deliver, it must not be the case that we lower the requirements of the university. It must not be the case that we are gradually moving the problems up in the education system. I am concerned, Madam President, about Swedish college. I am concerned that the lack of knowledge that we see in comprehensive school and upper secondary school will mean that we will have a reduced quality in the university, that you will encounter problems with upper secondary school with lowering the knowledge requirements at the university and that the government's focus on quantity will not be matched by the same focus on quality. It is a policy that fools everyone to do that. It is also unfortunate, Madam President, from the perspective of higher education that the government does not dare to allow Swedish universities to compare with universities in equivalent countries across Europe. Sweden should be part of the OECD study carried out in the field of higher education, because we know what an important effect PISA, Timss and other international studies of comprehensive school have been on Swedish school policy. We know how important knowledge talk and focus have become. It has actually begun to have an effect on reforms when we have measured ourselves with others in the form of PISA, Timss and other international studies. It is also needed in the field of higher education. Sweden needs to match the rest of the world when it comes to higher education policy, just as the Alliance focused on matching the rest of the world when it comes to primary and secondary education and thus carried out many reforms to strengthen quality and knowledge focus. It is time, Madam President, for the government to give serious priority to knowledge and quality throughout the education system, from preschool to research. Skillful teachers and principals, high expectations, studies in classrooms, clear goals and proper evaluations, I and the Liberals think that Sweden needs more of. We write about this in our special opinion. We are not taking part in the decision, because our budget has fallen into a previous decision. Knowledge is the ticket to succeeding in life and creating the independence that it means having a real education but also a good job that you can support yourself on. Every kid, Madam President, regardless of his background, should have a chance to learn a lot. That's how you can make your dreams come true.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-346	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal to be said of the Christian Democrats' budget motion on the school, but I intend to focus on some areas that are particularly dear to us and to me. This concerns student health, effective anti-bullying work, the provision of skills for properly trained teachers and schools with major challenges. Madam President, I would like Mental ill health increases the risk of failure at school. It is important, at an earlier stage than now, to catch children who feel bad. Students' health staff, the Vice-Chancellor and teachers have a large and shared responsibility to capture early signs of mental illness and prevent it from developing in the future. But every third comprehensive school and almost every other upper secondary school receives comments from the Swedish School Inspectorate about shortcomings related to pupil health. According to IVO, the Health and Welfare Inspection, there are shortcomings among the country's principals in the knowledge of care providers' responsibility for pupil health. This has been a problem for years, even though efforts have been made to correct it. We Christian Democrats therefore want to give county councils a single mission for the whole child and youth health care system. This means that the student health system should no longer have the school as its principal. School nurses, school doctors, school counselors and school psychologists should of course be present in the activities but should have the same principal as other nursing staff for children. A comprehensive children's and young people's health shall aim to increase the accessibility of health centres, pupil health and child and youth psychiatry, BUP. The overall children's and young people's health must work closely with school management, teachers, special educators and the municipality's social services. However, this effort falls under Category 9, that is to say within the Social Affairs Committee. Madam President, I would like Teachers and students have the right to a calm, safe and safe working environment. School leaders are primarily responsible for the school environment, for preventing and preventing risks of accidents or illness and for creating a good learning environment. This is also where the work against bullying lies. It should be obvious that all students should feel safe and appreciated, but that is not the case. Continuous active work against bullying in schools should be self-evident. Recently PISA presented a new part of the report, which focuses on the well-being of students. It shows that every sixth Swedish 15-year-old claims to have been bullied at least a couple of times a month. We can't have that. Not only can we go on feeling here, but schools need to use methods to deal with bullying based on science and proven experience. The Christian Democrats believe that it should be mandatory for school leaders to use only evidence-based anti-bullying programs. We therefore want the Swedish National Agency for Education to be tasked with carrying out a follow-up of the evaluation of methods against bullying carried out in 2011. A recommendation on which evidence-based programmes can be used should be developed. The relevant authorities also need to be able to enforce and follow up on this. Madam President, I would like In order to support language development and the ability to achieve the knowledge goals of newcomers and other students with Swedish as second language, we Christian Democrats propose a competence initiative for Swedish teachers in Swedish as second language. Schools with many students with Swedish as a second language also benefit from the investment in career teacher services that the Christian Democrats together with the other alliance parties did. Some of these services are targeted at vulnerable areas. Asylum seekers who are a little older are often put into a long wait for the processing of their asylum application with a long period of uncertainty and inaction as a result. We therefore see the need to provide education in SFI and social orientation to newcomers who have reached the age of 18. This can, at the time of granting a residence permit, greatly shorten the time of establishment, which is good for both the individual and society at large. Madam President, I would like All children and young people are different. Students in need of special support are better off in an environment with staff specialised in providing adapted pedagogy. That is why we believe that it is better for pupils who need special support to be trained according to their needs, both in terms of group size and the competence of teachers, rather than being integrated at all costs into regular class education. We therefore want to allow students in need of special support to have a better adapted classroom environment and to teach teachers with the right education in special education. The Education Act is clear that all students should receive support and incentives to develop as far as possible. To achieve this goal, students with the greatest needs need need to be helped and supported by teachers with the best skills. That is not always the case today. For a long time, there has been a shortage of special educators and teachers, and many who work as a special teacher do not have qualifications. At the same time, the introduction of teacher identification has increased the requirement for specialist teachers to have the right education. The availability of trained special educators and teachers is declining until 2030. The Christian Democrats therefore allocate SEK 230 million more than the government to a special teacher lift in 2018 – 2020. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats also want to create more faster ways into the teaching profession for suitable people who have a degree in a relevant subject or who have professional knowledge. Today it is possible to reach a teacher's degree through a supplementary education of 90 credits. However, we believe that it is necessary to reduce supplementary education to only 60 credits, corresponding to one year of full-time studies, plus internships in order for people with previously acquired subject knowledge to be able to obtain a teacher's degree more quickly. We believe that more people should be able to benefit from such additional training than they are today. In order for already active people to reach qualification and identification as teachers, there is the initiative Further education of teachers without a teacher's degree, VAL. The programme is planned taking into account each student's previous education and work experience and covers a maximum of 120 credits. We believe that those who lack teacher training but have tried their job as teachers and want to further educate themselves will be very good teachers. It is important that the school is opened up to people who later in life want to become teachers. To this end, we set aside a substantial sum in our budget. The Christian Democrats have a special opinion and therefore do not support the decision. I wish the President and colleagues of the Committee on Education a Merry Christmas.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-369	Madam President, I would like This is the last budget debate of the term of office on Category 16. It's been quick, I think. Much has passed, and both politics and politicians have been tried. I am also thinking of yesterday's tragic event. Of course, it rests on all of us, and the thoughts are with those concerned. In the school area, Timss, PISA and Pirl have surprised us positively. There are 20 000 more people working at school today, three out of four qualified teachers have benefited from government wage initiatives and the school has received substantial additional resources. Investing in knowledge and equality is investing in our common future. For me as a social democrat, there is nothing more important. We know how important it is to invest in education, in a society that holds together where all children and young people feel the hope of the future and in a preschool that meets all children and parents and that gives all children a start to organized educational learning and a knowledge base to stand on. We know how important it is for adults who see, who listen and who understand. We know how important it is that we have a school that narrows the gaps, not increases them. Major efforts have been made to fundamentally change management, resource allocation and governance in schools. Madam President, I would like The School Commission, composed of research, professional, business and principals, completed its work before the summer. They had then spent two years doing a solid analysis work and then agreeing on long-term rules for mainly primary school but with some bearing also at upper secondary school. The Commission was free to put forward proposals to increase the effectiveness and equivalence of the objectives. After many, long and certainly difficult discussions, they managed to deliver a final report, and in essence they agreed. They believe that the allocation of resources needs to be changed, that the state needs to contribute and that socio-economic variables need to be introduced for more equal opportunities. Here, the government has reacted and acted quickly with a short consultation period to ensure that large additions of resources with a different allocation of resources will apply as early as 2018. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the same effort and insight are not found in any of the budgetary movements of the bourgeois parties. Actually, I'm a little surprised. Why don't you listen to research and profession? I shall oppose in advance the argument that the money is in another area of expenditure or is called something else. The whole point of the Commission's proposal is the distribution and that those with the greatest challenges will have the most, that in three years it will switch up to 6 billion and that it is long-term – not that each party will square its own idea. Moreover, the Centre Party is leading the cuts in education by the Alliance, including training investments in category 25, by minus 4.8 billion. The Christian Democrats are a little behind with minus 3.1 billion and the Moderates have minus 2 billion. In addition to the budgetary effort, professional programmes are probably the most concrete and the closest in time. Björn Åstrand is doing a great deal of work in parallel with the Commission so that early this spring we will have proposals on the table, for competence development, for clarity in career paths, to put first teachers in context and to ensure that the teaching profession can really be a profession in constant change. National gatherings should not be forgotten in this context – a forum where the profession can reason and agree on professional issues that are important and where consensus is required but where decisions must be made in harmony with the profession and its know-how. Madam President, I would like Collaboration for the best school is the next important initiative. It is widespread in economic terms but above all a trend break in how the state and the Swedish National Agency for Education work and in the fact that politics has taken its fingers out of the jam jar and that measures are based on the individual school's difficulties. The investment means that SEK 600 million is used annually for over 120 schools and principals who have received criticism in the Swedish School Inspectorate's annual review. Together with the Swedish National Agency for Education, the school conducts an analysis of which actions are most desirable and important and are supported by research, specific staff, education, plans and money – tailored to the specific school. I myself, and certainly many in the committee, have visited a number of schools concerned, and it is all positive opinions that meet with one. Finally, the state is contributing to positive school development. Now they are no longer left alone with the criticism of supervision, but receive help and support in reversing developments. It is an initiative that means a lot to those schools that have the most difficult and toughest in creating security and learning and achieving the knowledge goals. For me, this is a policy for an equal school of knowledge. Madam President, I would like When I, together with the representatives of the Moderates in this debate, Erik Bengtzboe, sat in the teacher's association's morning couch as late as last week, we agreed in our praise of the initiative for collaboration for the best school. I am therefore surprised to see that the same effort is completely lacking in the Moderates' budget options. Instead of using all the knowledge available and reversing the development of schools that have received criticism from the School Inspectorate – improving school outcomes, increasing security and providing students with the support they need – the Moderates constantly return to schools that fail to close and to more career services being the solution to all the challenges for all schools. I find it difficult to understand why the Moderates delete one, as Bengtzboe himself said, successful efforts to increase equality between schools and also remove the School Commission's proposal for weighted contributions to the school. It is a pity that equality efforts simply do not seem to fit in with the Moderates' draft budget. Madam President, I would like Large additions have been made to the school: to teachers' salaries, special teachers, special educators, reading lifts and math lifts. There are billions of early interventions, increased resources for recreation centres and student health and – not to forget – 93 000 places at YH, vocational adult, folk high schools, universities and colleges. Prime Ministers Anna Ekström and Helene Hellmark Knutsson are both taking part in the debate, so I will not speak further about their respective areas. But now that welfare is a priority before tax cuts, we are anxious that school tax funds – for pupils and teachers – stay in school. It is not reasonable for teachers to pay profit withdrawals with lower salaries or for profit withdrawals to be made at the expense of support to students. Profit as a driving force in a market where principals compete for students and where grade inflation has come to produce the school as successful does not help to achieve an equal school of knowledge. There will be a proposal in March, and I look forward to having a proper debate and discussion on this issue. Madam President, I would like Efforts at an equal school of knowledge where there is security and studyo, a cohesive school where students meet, where opinions are broken and where everyone is given a second chance, is the opposite of the policy of the Swedish Democrats. After seven years in the Riksdag, the Swedish Democrats have still not managed to evict a coherent school policy. Suggestions described in words as bets are not included with actual resource supplements in their budget exercise. Either the proposals are underfunded, or they have miscalculated. In any case, it is clear that the Swedish Democrats want to segregate the school system through new arrivals in preparatory schools, messy pupils in emergency schools, suspected students in duty schools, professional students in two-year programmes and tiering with special grades for underperforming students from year 4. SD also cuts SEK 800 million annually on teachers' salaries, SEK 9 billion on municipalities and on the low-level billions that enable more staff in primary and pre-school schools. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by talking about the metoo campaigns that we have taken part in from the world of school – school, which is a reflection of society. Although it is children and young people who should be unspoiled by inherited gender patterns, stereotypes and prejudices, inequality thrives, and there is both abuse and sexual harassment also in school. This is totally unacceptable, as was also communicated by all the Ministers of Education when they visited the Education Committee on Tuesday. Let me underline what the ministers said, what the Director General of the National Agency for Education said and what the curriculum clearly expresses. The school's mission is double. It's about the student reaching the knowledge goals, but it's also about the core mission. The school is not a neutral place but has the task of conveying the standards and values upon which our society rests. It is a mission that is clearly linked to the ongoing debate. The foundation work is fundamental to creating security and learning, and in the long run it determines how today's young people are equipped for adult life, family life and working life and for being democratic, respectful citizens of society. Therefore, comprehensive school and upper secondary school aim to each student 中 can make and express conscious ethical positions based on knowledge of human rights and fundamental democratic values, as well as personal experience; 中 respects the self-worth of other people, 中 disassociates people from being subjected to oppression and insulting treatment, and helps to help other people; 中 can live into and understand the situation of other people and develop a willingness to act with their best interests in mind, too. The School Act and all curricula clearly state that preschool and school have a mission to counteract traditional gender patterns and that everyone working in preschool and school should provide the opportunity for all pupils and children to test and develop abilities and interests without restrictions based on gender. Gender equality as a fundamental democratic value should both be portrayed and conveyed. Madam President, I would like To question gender educators, diversity work and anti-bullying projects is simply not to keep up with their time, but to ignore goals that the Riksdag has clearly set. The core work must be upgraded, but not at the expense of the knowledge mission. We have to remind ourselves that they presuppose each other. The school's mission to shape norms and values requires more resources, not less, for wages, for more staff, for student health and for a good working environment. The important pedagogy of leisure homes needs to become part of the school day more explicitly. Perhaps most importantly, all students have the right to meet qualified teachers who have time for each student – adults who understand. And every teacher has the right to a committed, clear and determined boss. Because, Madam President, meetings between people cannot be directed. They'll be just as good as we give them the opportunity to be.
i-Q5EpBX3eTCASERRy6j42h2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your speech. I have a few brief points that are probably justified in view of Lena Hallengren's obviously written speech, which may not take proper account of what has been said in the speaker's seat earlier. The Moderates' draft budget contains just over 6 billion more than the Social Democrats' to school in the coming budget period starting this year, despite the fact that we are not expanding empty seats at the university, which the Social Democrats seem to think is a form of sport to compete in. As I mentioned in my speech, Collaboration for the best school is an excellent example of how the state can better support and help the principals to overcome the problems and challenges they face for various reasons. That is exactly what we are building on in our knowledge contract. There we ensure that resources are not only focused on those schools that need the most, as does Collaboration for the best school does. We are also ensuring that this is something that we can impose on schools that do not deliver and that the principals are not able to say no to. This brings us together and we are also starting to focus more on the specific state subsidies, which the Social Democrats and the government say they want to do at some point in the future but which they do not actually take hold of. All of this, of course, knows both Lena Hallengren and the Social Democrats, but high tone is still the tailfare one chooses. I'm sorry to hear that. As noted in a previous replica change, politics is more than coffee. Politics is also more than rhetoric. Perhaps it is the case that government-supporting parties should focus more on carrying out reforms than on standing and splicing about opposition policy. In fact, I think that this House deserves better.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-409	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the line, Erik Bengtzboe! The budget has been known for quite some time, so it is both wise and possible to prepare for these debates. But it is de facto the case, Erik Bengtzboe, that if you add up areas 15 and 16 and what lies in education policy in both fields 17 and 25, where it is clearly relevant, still remains minus 2 billion with Moderate politics. It's a fact. We could possibly fight about that over a cup of coffee, I don't know. I cannot help but ask, even though it is Erik Bengtzboe who has requested a reply, what is the reason for removing the initiative Cooperation for the best school? What is the reason why the School Commission is not being followed up in Moderate Budget Options? In what way is trust and respect shown for the solid knowledge of the profession and for the work that has been done? In the context of the School Commission, it has been done together with principals, with business and with research. It will be extremely difficult to conduct a policy based on what we know and to try to do so in a long-term way if we have nothing to hold on to. I may have been a little naive, but I had hoped and thought that the School Commission and its reasoning would be a starting point for all of us, of course with a slightly different approach. However, you want to drastically remove the money and do not think that we need this type of addition and a different distribution, which means that the resources are allocated according to the needs of what we can say is a rather advanced way.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-412	Madam President, I would like When the OECD was in Sweden and made its big search for the problems that we can see has edged Swedish education policy during the 1990s and even in the early 2000s it was extremely clear that there is a strength in the Swedish school policy system. It is that, historically, cohesion has succeeded in implementing reforms coherently from the policy point of view. There has been a great support for how education policy is to be developed, and there has been a great support for the value of Swedish education policy and how you want it to look like. I find it sad that we should leave this behind because the government, in its eagerness to smooth over the lack of reforms, chooses to engage in the kind of placard policy that is sometimes put forward in this chair. Lena Hallengren is very well aware that we have great challenges with empty chairs at the university. We have seen that government capital at universities has grown a great deal. 40% of the investments the government claims to have made are money that has not come to pleasure. Lena Hallengren knows very well that when it comes to investments in schools and education, the Moderates are ahead of the Social Democrats when they add up the spending areas. We can pick up all the numbers afterwards if you wish. Much of what the School Commission has proposed is absolutely interesting to look at. That is also why the government has set up investigations to continue to do so. However, before these investigations have landed, it is difficult to give the government a blank cheque for what is to be proposed. This is not the way to conduct serious policy, but to take account of what is actually on the table and not just of good intentions.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-416	Madam President, I would like It's not about giving anything carte blanche-- absolutely not. But what is currently in the budget and which was also referred before it was written is an addition to our schools and municipalities – not on the basis of a certain number of students but on the basis of the conditions that exist as one of the steps that the School Commission proposed. I think it is a great pity that Erik Bengtzboe from the Moderates so firmly maintains that this initiative is not needed. I believe that what we need to take seriously, speaking of the OECD, is precisely the fact that inequality is increasing. We have certainly had problems with our knowledge results, and we are addressing this. But inequality is not something we can wave away, but concrete efforts are needed that aim to provide more equal conditions for schools, teachers and principals to succeed in their joint mission. I would say that we are not doing this without collaboration for the best school and without really seriously discussing the School Commission and thinking about the allocation of resources. Then, of course, I look forward to Erik Bengtzboe handing over to me the efforts that cannot be seen from the budget, nor from the budget report, which, on the contrary, shows that the Moderates spend less than the government does. However, I have to say that I could have lived with this too if the Moderates had also contributed in the areas where it is about making the school more equal, for it deserves all students.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-420	Madam President, I would like Every student should of course feel safe in school. What happened in Enskede yesterday must not happen. It is a great tragedy, and my thoughts go to those who have suffered this great sorrow. Madam President, I would like But there are joys too. Last autumn I was out at the two secondary schools in my municipality. It was in connection with the 100 million Free Safe Educated campaign, a worldwide campaign that raises the issue of young people around the world today who do not get the opportunity to go to school. An absolute truth – almost in any case – is that all children who do not get the opportunity to educate themselves will always live in poverty and vulnerability. If you do not get the chance to go to school, it is difficult to get away from the street, landfill or other environments that are not positive. Education is the foundation of democracy. Without knowledge, no demands can be made. During the day I was in high school, I had the privilege of meeting so many wise young people and talking about school, life and much in between. I got good conversations with many adults at school, teachers, assistants and principals, about how our education network in Sweden is built up and thoughts about it – both good and bad. It was one of those days that I have put in my file where it says Brilliant, good and incredibly instructive. It is important to see all the amazing work that is done out in schools, to talk about it and to lift it up. We will try to give the school the positive input it also needs to be able to do a good job, for teachers to feel strong and for young people to feel that it makes sense to go to school. They should feel that it is a good school that they go to and that therefore they certainly learn something. If we all too often say that the school is bad, it is a little harder for students to feel that they need to go there. Today we are here in this House to debate the school, which in many ways is the most important item in the state budget. Without school and education, the rest of society falls apart in some way. School has an incredibly important role to play. It will hold a country together and give every young individual a good start in life. Therefore, I am incredibly proud and happy with everything we have done so far to develop and improve our school system. The government has prioritised the school in budget after budget, and we are now seeing the results in PISA, Pirl and the grade statistics. We also see how more people apply to the teaching profession and receive higher salaries for their work and increased staff density in preschools and primary schools. It is important that we make the school an attractive place of work for more teachers, who can return and build on a university or vocational education. There are still many major challenges ahead, and it is a long way to go before we can say that we have a school that takes care of every student's needs. In order to make further improvements that carry forward, we need to carry out a thorough analysis of the challenges we face. Therefore, I am pleased that we have come ashore with the School Commission, which has gathered research and profession in the most thorough reform work for the Swedish school in several decades. Through the School Commission, we have received a well-founded basis for how we will continue to work in politics. The picture of the challenge ahead is clear: If we are to achieve further improved school outcomes, inequality must be broken. It is not possible to overestimate how important school is to society and how important school is to each individual child. We have at school several amazing professions that work and work every day and that have students' knowledge journey in the high seat. It is the educators, the student care team and many other adults who form a network around the student, a network that is particularly important for students who do not support their learning from home. As a result of the 90s crisis, teacher density in primary school went down by up to 20 per cent. We will have to pay dearly for this saving when inequality in school increases. Not to take advantage of every child's opportunity to learn and develop fully both socially and in terms of knowledge is, in the long run, not to give them the opportunity to get the job that both they and society need. With only a pre-secondary education, entry into the labour market is considerably more difficult. But the highest price, of course, does not pay the student, who gets his or her future determined on the basis of his or her parents' level of education, his or her own ability. Madam President, I would like We are trying to rebuild equality in the Swedish school system. Where you live and what school you go to should not limit your future. It is one's efforts at school that will determine one's chances in life. We do this with a clear, strong and long-term resource enhancement in Swedish schools, where resources are more weighted to those schools and students who need them best. For schools where the need is as bad as thirst, this means up to 25% increase in funding for education and pupil health. The support can, for example, go to smaller classes for the younger students, more employees in teaching and pupil health, relief for teachers, higher teachers' salaries or increased competence development for teachers. With this reinforcement, we come up in the OECD section as regards the resources that are added to the core of the school: education and pupil health. Madam President, I would like We cannot settle down to the fact that school reflects society. School also shapes society. As an environmentalist, I have an equal school as one of my absolute concerns. We are now showing that we are prepared to make the priority that profession and research are calling for, where the state is to take back responsibility for equivalence in the school system. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-436	Madam President, I would like I thank Elisabet Knutsson for the speech. Elisabet Knutsson belongs to the same party as the Minister for Education, but he is not in the Chamber, so I thought I would take the opportunity to ask her some questions linked to the Environmental Party's education policy, even if it concerns things that she chose not to address in her speech. We had a review in the committee not very long ago on the targeted state grants, which according to the Swedish National Audit Office have in various ways contributed to reduced equivalence. The question then becomes how Elisabet Knutsson thinks when one does not concern the targeted state grants. You are lifting these efforts, which of course were important to make. However, as far as the targeted state subsidies are concerned, you have now submitted the last budget of your term of office and have had a number of budgets on you. I don't think this problem has been unknown before either. Therefore, I would like to ask why the Green Party in government chooses to leave the special-destined state subsidies in this way, when it is known that they do not contribute to increasing equivalence.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-438	Madam President, I would like There are always problems with targeted state subsidies. We know they're not always so accurate. Sometimes they end up wrong. It is always a concern you have – how narrowly should you make a targeted state grant? It is always unfortunate when it does not end up where it is intended to end up. Unfortunately, though, we are not going out with the money bag to each one. Sometimes it gets wrong, and that's unfortunate.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-439	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Knutsson for his reply. I am also thinking of another part that has been very clear. During the year of the alliance government, the Green Party had a representative in the committee who argued with emphasia that we were constantly running in the wrong direction with Jan Björklund as Minister of Education. Gustav Fridolin also said quite early that it would not take so long to change what had been wrong. But when you look at career positions in alienation areas and other things that the government has driven, you can see that it is very similar to those initiated by the Alliance Government. This applies, among other things, to how to support them. I have previously praised Collaboration for best school, but there was an embryo of it already earlier at the Swedish National Agency for Education. Isn't the picture a little wrong? Do we not have a fairly broad consensus on that part of the development? It is not least about how to support exclusion areas, for example now with the proposal on career services. The former rhetoric of the Green Party that we were running in the wrong direction may not really match reality. It is rather the case that we have quite a broad consensus on what needs to be done for the most vulnerable areas.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-443	Madam President, I would like Yes, I think we have a consensus, and we have developed that consensus well during our term of office. Each government makes proposals. If a new government comes, there is no reason for it to sweep away everything that the previous government has done. You pick the raisins out of the cake and develop or change them in such a way that they go into your own politics. If there is a proposal that you can reshape, it would be foolhardy to sit down and start again.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-445	Madam President, I would like As several previous speakers, I would like to mention the tragic and sad event in Enskede. Just before the debate, I learned that this is a person whom I have met a number of times. The student who was murdered at the school in Enskede was called Mahmoud and was one of the activists in the manifesto about a humane refugee policy and an end to the expulsions to Afghanistan. I want to take this opportunity to send strength, love and support to his friends. Unfortunately, he has no family in Sweden, but to his acquaintances and friends I want to send all the support and love I can. I would like to address another issue which has touched on and upset many of us recently. It's about the hashtag # metoo. It can and must be seen as a revolution, a necessary revolution in the visibility and fight against the structural problems of equality. We have heard many stories from school and even preschool about how girls learn that when a boy hunts or beats you, it means that the boy likes a little bit more; you know that where you've been told that love always starts with trouble. Sexual harassment, when a guy takes a girl between his legs or on his breasts, is explained away by the fact that the guy is childish, immature or has not understood his action. And there are too many cases where men whose abuse reaches the courtroom are treated in the same way as if they didn't understand, as if they were stupid in the head. Everyone has to go to school. Therefore, it is important that schools take on the preventive and remedial work against sexual harassment and violence. The school is also one of the most common places where young girls are subjected to sexual harassment. Therefore, the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate should work more closely with the work against sexual harassment. I am pleased that the Minister of State and the Minister of Education were with us this week talking about those very issues. I feel that there is still a great deal of consensus about the need to do something extra. Today, the Swedish National Agency for Education has support material for the work with values. It includes sexual harassment. The question is how effective it is when many school workers testify that sexual harassment is as normal as it is. We see a need to prioritise that work and not to include it only in the core work as a violation among many. The 2017 Friend Report describes that they have met several students and teachers who are so used to sexual harassment that they see it as part of everyday life and that it is simply the way guys and girls behave against each other. We want the Swedish National Agency for Education to produce another support material, specifically to counteract the occurrence of sexual harassment, and that the Swedish School Inspectorate is tasked with identifying and investigating the schools' work against sexual harassment. School, but also preschool, has an important role to play in breaking these destructive gender norms. It's on their mission today. Unfortunately, it turns out that school and preschool rather preserve old gender roles in many ways. Therefore, we believe that all staff in school and preschool should have gender skills and undergo training on sexual harassment. Sex and cohabitation education has proved substandard for many years, and teachers lack sufficient competence. In order for teaching not only to become technical, the subject should also be integrated into other subjects, such as natural sciences, social sciences, Swedish as well as sports and health. Therefore, teacher training in these subjects should also include sex and cohabitation skills. Through the campaign metoo, we have seen the structures behind sexual harassment and abuse revealed. But this time we have to make sure that the change takes place also in classrooms and in everyday life. I would like to move on to one of the main issues of the Left Party. It is about the prize hunt, the free choice of school and the headmanship of the Swedish school. Exactly a week ago, Vittra Sjöstaden, an F‐9 school in Hammarby Sjöstad, announced the school's closure. It is a school owned by Academedia, which in turn is owned by a venture capital company, which in turn has listed the company. The company is Sweden's most profit-making school company. And you shut down school because of a lack of student records, you mean. Despite huge profits within the group, students are now forced to go to other schools within the group in other areas or to other schools, if they want to. This isn't sustainable. And Swedish schools have not always looked like this. We received another report this week, from two teachers who I have met myself at a conference with LO, the National Association of Teachers and the Association of Teachers about giving all students the same condition. That's the headline. The two teachers are committed to the prize hunt that their employers have been pursuing for a long time. The teachers were dismissed from their work three days after the conference, referring to: nothing. But everyone at the school – all the students and all the staff – knows and testifies that it's about their fight against the prize hunt, which they conduct in their free time. That's why Academedia has fired the teachers. They have worked for 16 and 9 years in the Swedish school, if I do not remember wrong, and have fought for all students to have the right to an equal and equal education. It is not acceptable that the Swedish parliament and residents of the country agree to continue to have an experimental workshop with Swedish schools, to continue with Jan Björklund's experiment with privatisations and to allow companies to literally trade with children on the stock exchange. It is not acceptable for schools to be shut down because companies want to be economically viable. It is not okay that, despite huge profits, staff are given lower average wages than municipal schools do. At Academedia it is about over SEK 2,500 on average per month in lower salary. In the end, these questions are about profits, the free choice of schools and the headship about something else. It is about which city's school and hence what kind of city's future we want in our country. Do we want a future where students from different socio-economic backgrounds no longer meet in school? Or do we want a society where students can meet whether you are children of a person who belongs to a higher socio-economic class in society or not? I'll pick it later. Me and the Left Party strive for us to have a school that ensures that children of different backgrounds meet and that you develop together and develop each other. In the Swedish Democrats' budget – the spokesperson is not here and is not able to answer for himself, but refugees are usually not when the Swedish Democrats talk about them – it is among other things
i-51a09335ed8e043e-466	Is that what the Alliance can think of after the next election? Is a vote on the alliance parties perhaps a vote on these negative positions? To be honest, we have not received any clear information as to what such a government would look like and whether the Alliance can envisage the support of the Swedish Democrats. If we move on to the budgets of the Center Party and the Moderates, you will quickly see a red thread. The cuts made by the Swedish Democrats also make some alliance parties in many ways in their own budgets. The Center Party wants to reduce by, among other things, SEK 3.7 billion in this expenditure area. The Moderates want to reduce by about SEK 2.6 billion. The Left Party does not really see it that way. Our vision is to have an equal and equal school. Although the budget does not solve all the problems in Swedish schools, we are pleased, proud and happy that we, together with the government, have developed a budget that involves more investments. It breaks the pattern of many years, whereby tax cuts were prioritised before schoolchildren, private operators looking for profit were favoured and profits were made before teachers and school staff. We are also proud of the efforts that we have been involved in pushing through when it comes to free swimming education for young people and about – what we debated yesterday – increased b contribution in study funding with SEK 300 and about the other grants that we have managed to include in the budget. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-471	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, Lucia was celebrated in many schools in Sweden. Luciafirandet is a bright tradition in Sweden. It's tradition and it's joy. What a contrast to yesterday's extremely sad event! The fact that deadly violence takes place in the Swedish school is despicable. To all students, teachers and staff at Enskede farm high school, I want to say that we suffer with you and we mourn with you. Together with you, we want to fight for a safe school. School Sweden is behind everyone who now mourns at Enskede farm high school. Madam President, I would like Since the government took office, more than 200,000 people have a job to go to. Sweden's economy is strong. Unemployment is low, employment is the highest measured by Eurostat. If we are to look at youth employment, we need to go back to 1992 – before the 500% interest rate – in order to find equal employment rates. But the strong labour market does not exist for everyone. Many people are getting hurt in the Swedish labour market. Such an important challenge is the many young people who finish high school without a complete upper secondary school degree. While 350 000 people are unemployed, there are more than 100 000 job vacancies. People without a completed upper secondary school degree are significantly more at risk of unemployment than those with a upper secondary school degree. Almost everyone in one year old starts high school, but as much as 35 percent finish high school without a complete degree. In addition, the introduction programme of upper secondary school has grown considerably in recent years. In grade 1 the introduction programme of upper secondary school is now larger than all the vocational programmes combined. Christer Nylander spoke earlier here in the speaker's chair about the importance of ensuring that more people are eligible for upper secondary school. But it is also very important that we ensure that everyone can complete high school with a complete upper secondary school degree. Of the students who started an introduction programme in 2011, barely one fifth had a upper secondary school degree five years later. That is why we propose an increase of SEK 300 million per year to develop the introduction programmes, and it is included in the budget that is on Parliament's table. Work with introductory programme developers to strengthen local development work is very important. We extend the school of holiday with special funds for students in language introduction. These are some examples of how we work to strengthen the transition from introduction programmes to national programmes. It is a very important work in the coming years in Sweden's upper secondary school. Madam President, I would like The vocational programme of upper secondary school is the basis for providing the skills of industry and welfare alongside the important role they play in securing young people's job opportunities. The bourgeois government probably meant well when the signal was sent to students and parents that the professional programmes would not lead to higher education, but how wrong it was. The development of professional programmes is extremely negative, and we are now seeing the impact on young people, employers and the labour market. Many companies are in need of recruiting, but the biggest obstacle is a shortage of people. I and certainly many people in this House travel around the country a lot. The employers I meet testify over and over again to the need for labour. Very often there is a need for such workers who are trained in upper secondary school's vocational programmes. In order to increase the attractiveness of professional programmes, the Government proposes that professional programmes should give qualifications to the university, and we do so without compromising the breadth and depth of the professional subjects. I do not think I have ever seen such a coherent chorus of approval for these proposals. The benefits come from the labour market organisations. Both trade unions and employers' organisations are waiting to tell us how important it is for these proposals to be implemented. Even those who are not heard as much in the debate – students who go or could go on professional programmes – have every reason to welcome these proposals. They will provide more opportunities for employment, for work abroad, for starting your own business or for further learning at the university – opportunities that we think students in vocational programmes should have. Furthermore, the quality of professional programmes needs to be developed. The budget includes a number of proposals which will play a major role in reality. Next year we will set aside SEK 30 million to develop the workplace-based learning, an area where the quality deficiencies are confirmed, not least in the School Inspectorate's many reports. We are also working hard to secure the availability of vocational teachers, which is perhaps the biggest problem in our upper secondary school as well as in other schools. There is a glaring shortage of teachers, and it goes again in principle all forms of education. To this we set aside SEK 45 million in next year's budget. It is a small but welcome effort to strengthen the recruitment of vocational teachers. Madam President, I would like In addition to these very important investments in upper secondary school – as we have done in this year's budget and where it also includes securing assets to ensure that the professional programmes become university-preparatory – we also strengthen the knowledge boost significantly. We are building on previous investments aimed at finding new and better paths to education and jobs and removing dead ends, so that everyone has a chance of lifelong learning. Through the Knowledgelift, we have already introduced a right to Komvux to strengthen the individual's right to enter a secondary school degree, something that is absolutely necessary given that such a large group of young people every year leave upper secondary school without a complete upper secondary school degree. We are also introducing a new recruitment grant. It was introduced last year, but it will now be a much greater opportunity for young people and a little older people who are well away from education to take this step of entering the labour market via education. In another area of expenditure, we discussed last week in this House the huge efforts made by the government on education, in folk high schools and student associations. They provide good opportunities for young people and older people who are unfortunately far from the labour market to get closer and, through inclusive and permissive pedagogy, to get closer to the education needed to manage in the labour market in Sweden. But the knowledge boost is bigger than that. Through the Knowledgelift, people are given a chance to educate themselves to develop in the profession. It is about not only being able to get a job, but being able to develop within the job, for example re-train to a new profession, gaining access to post-secondary education, further training for better career opportunities or why not form a basis for increased and improved participation in the social debate. Today's debate on society is characterised by black and white simple solutions. Then the significance of a true and genuine education is greater than ever. Through the knowledge boost, we give people the opportunity to develop and strengthen their position in the labour market, but also to get back into work. The upgrading of knowledge is not just a word; it also means considerable resources. If we count together the Government's total investments, the Knowledgelift totals 10 billion in 2018, and with today's investments we are up to as much as 12 billion in 2021. The efforts made are largely permanent and state-funded training places. I would like to use Parliament's time to mention two particularly important initiatives within the Knowledgelift aimed at remedying the skills supply problems we have. The first is the major investment in vocational adult education and training. This year we are strengthening regional professional adult, as it is called, with 6,750 new places. Some of these have been reserved for combining them with SFIs. This money not only provides new places, but also goes to a quality enhancement. These are initiatives that will facilitate the recruitment of future carpenters, cold gifters, industrial technicians, electricians, nurses and employees in the growing tourism industry. There is currently a large shortage of skilled skilled workers, which is a major problem in the labour market. These proposals will lead to improved matching. The second initiative that I would like to mention is, of course, the very welcome initiative at the University of Applied Sciences. It is a form of education that has grown considerably in recent years, and we are now building it further. It gives very good results. Nine out of ten are in work the year after they have completed their education. An important part of the recipe for success is, of course, the involvement of employers in education. At a time when education is required to gain a strong position on the labour market, it is with great pride that the government presents such a strong education budget on the table of the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like I, too – metoo – have been horrified but not surprised by the calls that have come in the school area. The school is part of society and reflects it, but the school is also an arena where we can and should make a difference. Since the 1960s, the school has had a strong mission to counteract traditional gender patterns. The calls we have now seen clearly show that we are nowhere near being there. We adults have a great responsibility to ensure that no young people will ever be subjected to abuse, abuse or sexism in school. We'll take that responsibility. The young people, teachers and school leaders who have created these calls have certainly earned the support we can give them. We'll do everything we can to secure a safe school. I would like to thank you for a pleasant, debate-happy and interesting semester with the Education Committee and wish all my colleagues in the committee a Merry Christmas.
i-Ti1sEPsjitF9n34BiMUv4u	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the Christmas greeting and for the post! These are, of course, things that are connected: eligibility for upper secondary school, the ability to then complete upper secondary school, the growth of the introductory programme and the need to expand knowledge. As I said, all of this is connected. Sometimes you can think about the robustness of a system and how to prioritize between doing new things and ensuring that the infrastructure is maintained. It is not without thinking about other systems in society where we have forgotten to ensure that the infrastructure is of high quality and then falls. The balance between new investments and quality – the need to see that this is not only about new resources but also about quality in resources – is something that I think about when it comes to the entire education system. The Government's education budget contains an incredibly interesting table showing that the students attending schools in vulnerable areas are also those who have teachers and principals with the shortest experience. If the school is to have a compensatory power and if it is to ensure that there are opportunities for all students to succeed, that more people are eligible for upper secondary school and that more people then also pass upper secondary school, it is necessary to target the quality of the resource where it is really needed. We see quite clearly that this is not the case. The expansion and filling of teacher training rather than high-level pupils from high-level education will also undermine the system in the long term. I would like to hear from the Minister of State something about the need to have quality in resources, and not just to think in the budget about quantity of resources. We really need to make sure that the system stays together and that the everyday life in each classroom is of very high quality.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-508	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christer Nylander, for the opportunity to philosophize a little! It's a chance you don't turn down. Often one hears that the Swedish school does not suffer from a lack of resources. This is an often repeated position. I remember very well the interesting review we received from the OECD researchers and the research group that the OECD had gathered when examining the Swedish school after the disastrous PISA results in 2012. I had thought we would hear this from these scientists too, but we were told something else. We were told that although the Swedish school has quite a lot of resources, it was not even close to the top when it came to resources for teaching and pupil health. This is something worth taking very seriously. I am convinced – and the government's efforts show that this is a conviction shared by the entire government – that we will overcome the school's performance problems, continue to raise knowledge outcomes and, in addition, strengthen equivalence, it is the quality of teaching that needs to be strengthened. If the quality of teaching is to be strengthened, it must be strengthened in all classrooms in all schools. There is a Finnish mantra that says that every school should be a good school. I am absolutely convinced that this mantra should permeate the entire school system. Therefore, the efforts made to secure long-term financing of education and pupil health are very important. There is an impression of this in the great school effort that is being made in the budget. This gives a signal to the school's principals, municipalities and independent schools that the government's efforts are intended to be long-term. Quality is created with resources, but it is created with long-term resources that the principals can trust remains even after a change of government.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-515	Madam President, I would like Quality and resources sometimes go hand in hand, but they don't have to. If we have problems with mathematics education, it is not of course right to put additional people who do not know anything about mathematics in such a classroom. The quality of resources must be ensured if it is to be effective when resources are deployed. That's why I'm thinking a lot about how we make sure that the right quality ends up in the right place so that more students learn more. I am also thinking about what it means for resources where they are most needed when the government is now gradually, clearly and sharply expanding all systems at the same time. Could it be that the massive expansion of the Knowledgelift means that quality resources that would have been needed elsewhere in society will not be there, such as in primary school or upper secondary school? The Government is right that Sweden has low unemployment now in a boom. But can it be that when resources are very strained in society, it is difficult to expand the education system with high quality? Rather than helping them, are those who engage in training efforts being fooled? In my old experience, when the labour market is very hot, it is important to ensure that those who are far from new jobs are as close to the labour market as possible. But if they do not do so, but instead go a low-quality training or training effort, they will be locked in it, and then they will miss out on the sharp boom that we are experiencing right now. This is incredibly crucial in economic policy. Since Anna Ekström is responsible for many of the tools available in economic policy, I would like to hear how this balance takes place. Is there a risk that the strong effort that is being made, with everything from teacher training to professional adult and other efforts in the Knowledgelift, means that those who would now be close to the labour market, when it is at its hottest there, miss the chance to get a foothold on new jobs? If so, it will be even more difficult for them to cope when the recession eventually comes.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-521	Madam President, I would like I have very great respect for what Christer Nylander is saying on this issue. I have also noted that, in the context of the discussion we had in the field of public education, I heard a similar line of reasoning from the Liberals' representative in the Committee on Culture. There the reasoning was that it was true that it was right with the big investment the government made in student associations and folk high schools. Yet no money was added because they thought it was the wrong timing. The concern is only, Christer Nylander, that this particular investment in the "Knowledgelift" means that those who are the furthest from the labour market will have better, greater and richer opportunities to enter the labour market through education and training. The investment made through folk high schools, for example, is made for, and also designed for, ensuring that those who are farthest from get easier to get to the education. The sad lesson that we learn from today's labour market is that we politicians must say what we want. Employers have already decided that full upper secondary education is required for people to have a strong position in the labour market. It will then be up to us to ensure that everyone can get this upper secondary education and that those who do not receive full upper secondary education in their first big attempt will have many opportunities to come back and do it. That is exactly what the knowledge boost is all about. Within the Knowledgelift we will do the best we can to ensure quality. We will spend great and good resources, as it is done, on ensuring the quality of teaching. I would like to refer here to the very important effort made in the budget on what is known as national school development programmes where solid, evidence-based and research-proven competence development ensures that teachers can strengthen their teaching in today's school. I think the bets are connected. I'm not worried about them fighting each other.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-530	Madam President, I would like I would like to raise one point which I did not hear the Minister of Knowledge raised in his speech and which I highlighted instead. It's about the anti-bullying work. Children's well-being and security are essential if they are to learn anything at all at school and for future developments. I said in my speech that the last PISA study spoke of one in six Swedish 15-year-olds being bullied at least a couple of times a month. We cannot accept that. It should be zero tolerance against bullying and other offensive behaviours and harassment of various kinds. Schools need to use systematic work against bullying. When the Swedish National Agency for Education did the 2011 evaluation of the anti-bullying programs used in schools, it turned out not only that they did not help so much but also that they could have the opposite effect. I am curious if the Minister of Knowledge thinks that these problems have been addressed when evaluating it in 2011. If you are not satisfied, what measures does the Minister of Knowledge see are needed to enable us to get a workable anti-bullying work out at the schools?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-535	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Eclund, for the very urgent question! The time in which we live shows with all the necessary clarity how important it is to work to ensure the safety and security of our schools. It is not only the report that Annika Eclund refers to that has made a deep impression on me. This also applies to the studies carried out through the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which shows the vulnerable situation of many teachers and sometimes also principals at our schools. Nevertheless, I find some comfort in the fact that the Swedish school's anti-bullying work has become much better. Anyone who follows the Swedish National Agency for Education's large survey study – at a speed I lose the name of it – who repeatedly measures what students, parents, teachers and also school leaders think about school, attitudes towards school, sees that both teachers and parents perceive that the work against bullying has improved. Is this meant to be proud and satisfied? No, I'm pretty proud of the anti-bullying work done in Swedish schools, but certainly not satisfied. One cannot be satisfied as long as we still have the very difficult figures we have. However, we should take on board the positive work that has been done in many schools in recent years and ensure that there are opportunities to strengthen it. To do so requires a main organisation – municipalities and independent schools – that takes its work to ensure the safety and quality of the school very seriously. There is a need for systematic quality work and an evaluation of own work that can move forward. Here are the major efforts made in national school development programmes and also in Collaboration for the best school very important to give principals and teachers the tools they need in this work.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-541	Madam President, I would like It is promising that things are beginning to feel more positive and that the anti-bullying work is beginning to progress. But it's so important that we can't just go on feeling. The Christian Democrats believe that it should be mandatory for school leaders to use only evidence-based anti-bullying programs. The question is far too important for you to just feel something. We must use methods based on science and proven experience. In my earlier speech, my suggestion was that the Swedish National Agency for Education should be given a mandate to follow up the evaluation of methods against bullying that was carried out in 2011 and that it can also recommend the programmes that can be used and that are based on science and proven experience. I'm curious about the Minister of Knowledge's opinion on that.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-544	Madam President, I would like I'm not gonna stand here and promise new assignments to the National Agency for Education. What I can promise is that the government will continue the persistent work we have done to ensure that there are good materials for schools to work with. In the last shift with Christer Nylander, we considered the importance of competence development in order to strengthen the quality of teaching. The skills development that we have invested a lot in in recent years are the national school development programmes. It gives teachers the opportunity to work together in collegial cooperation with the support of school management to ensure that they work, on an evidence-based and research-based basis, to strengthen the quality of teaching. The quality of teaching is what anti-bullying is all about. It shall not be carried out as a project alongside. It should not be handled on theme days and in special bets. It should permeate the entire school's work and be an issue that is a core task in teaching. School development is based on quality in teaching. It is also based on the fact that the core mission and the knowledge mission reinforce each other and go hand in hand. I am convinced that we best strengthen this work by ensuring that teachers and principals have the tools they need to systematically strengthen this work in teaching and in school life. It should not be done through various sparklers that come, light and disappear again. Here the national school development programmes are very important but also Collaboration for the best school. We know that weak knowledge and insecurity often go hand in hand. We also know that in schools where the challenges are greatest, the need for anti-bullying work may also be particularly important. Thanks to Collaboration for the best school, the Swedish National Agency for Education has a lot of work going on to strengthen the quality of teaching also when it comes to combating bullying.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-549	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking the Government for taking the time, participating in the debate and showing the budget, Parliament and elected representatives the respect and seriousness they deserve. I am pleased that you are here today throughout this long debate, which is now eating up our lunchtime. Order and security, security and peace of mind are essential for a functioning learning environment. This applies not only to students but also to ensure that it is a decent and good working environment for teachers as well. According to the OECD, Sweden has the unmerciful position as a world leader in the very opposite. We are the world leader in late arrival, we are the world leader in disorder and we have very high absenteeism for very many of our students, In the Swedish School Inspectorate's survey, half of the students say that they are disturbed in class in such a way that it harms teaching. One out of four teachers states that they have been subjected to threats or violence in connection with the performance of their duties. It is not a safe working environment – where you can deliver and where you can focus on the knowledge mission – when you need to constantly worry or be on guard in relation to your environment. The opinion of the Alliance and Moderates is that reforms are needed to clarify school competences and responsibilities. We need judgment in order and conduct. We need evidence-based ways of working when it comes to threats, harassment and insulting treatments, which we heard from the Christian Democrats. And we need to restore the authority of the teachers so that they can have the necessary leadership in the classroom. I am not going to ask the rhetorically boring question whether the government is going to take this seriously, but I am going to ask the honest question: when and how are you going to take this concern seriously?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-555	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Erik Bengtzboe! The Swedish school must be characterised by order and order. Threats and violence should have no place in Swedish school. The opportunities available for teachers and principals to ensure that threats and violence do not occur should be used. Lessons should begin on time. Lessons should end in time. Lessons shall be conducted. Anyone who is concerned about the order and already at school can study a review that the Swedish School Inspectorate presented a number of years ago. Flying inspections had been made in a number of independent high school schools to see what it looked like in class. Turns out a lot of lessons weren't lessons. A lot of lessons simply meant that youths were in the living room doing their mobile phones. In the Swedish school it should not just be orderly. In fact, it should also be a focus on knowledge and education. From the Government, and preferably from the Riksdag, we will constantly inculcate and emphasise how important it is that the school's mission is focused on knowledge and education, that the lessons are used for teaching, that the teaching is of high quality and that the teaching leads to good results that the students can use in their professional lives, in future studies and as responsible citizens of society. But we will also give the principals and teachers who work in Swedish schools the power and independence they need to enforce these rules. There, the Swedish school, which sometimes steers towards other things than knowledge and education, gives rise to some concern.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-558	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is very gratifying if we can have a more serious and forward-looking discussion about the focus on the knowledge mission. It takes order at school to achieve it. It feels like the Government is on the right track when it comes to finding the way forward. However, concrete measures are still needed to ensure that we get the order and order needed in the classrooms. Let me give you a few examples. The competence of teachers in this area needs to be strengthened. The teacher education today contains far too little classroom knowledge, too little subject didactics and too little leadership to be well equipped when entering the classroom. Many teachers testify that they do not feel that the education they receive, whether they think it is good or not, equips them for the classroom situation. The Alliance has proposed changes. The government has so far stated the opposite: no changes in teacher training should be made and no updating required. Then it is necessary to restore teachers' authority in the classroom, which is necessary in order to create order and to be able to have effective teaching. This requires that teachers have the chance to really develop their leadership on the ground. It's about removing unnecessary tasks, removing administration and ensuring that the teachers have the skills, which I was into earlier, and that they get to focus on the knowledge mission. Unfortunately, this has gone the wrong way in recent years. Both teachers' unions testify to an increase in administration. These are two clear contributions to the Minister when she goes on Christmas leave. There are two concrete proposals from the Alliance that can be supported and taken on board immediately in January when we see each other again.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-564	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe, for the opportunity to talk about the need for order in school! I remember very well a meeting I attended a few years ago. It was a collaborative project. At the time the Swedish National Police Board had done a review of how to work to create security throughout society and wanted to describe how to cooperate with the school. It turned out that it was difficult to get the school to participate in that kind of cooperation. The reason was that the schools were afraid of their market value. They didn't want to be seen with the police. They didn't want to tell me they were working with the police. This could reduce the search pressure. This could lead to more difficult marketing of the school. I have a very great respect for our teachers and principals who will maintain proper rules of order in our schools while constantly looking at what makes a school a popular school. This is one of many examples of what can happen when schools strive to be, for example, a school that attracts many students instead of being a school that ensures that knowledge and education are at the centre. Erik Bengtzboe now proposes reviews in order. It's a suggestion I've never heard a teacher or principal make. Erik Bengtzboe also talks about the need for authority. Of course, teachers should have authority in the classroom, but that authority is not frightened. It is created by respect and by the ability of teachers to teach. But it is also a question of teachers having not only the support of the saviors, but also of the headmaster and society in maintaining school rules. There, our market-driven school – sometimes striving for marketing and popularity rather than for knowledge, education, order and order – is a concern.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-568	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank Anna Ekström for her participation in the debate. There were many important issues raised by the Government in its speech, but I would still like to have it clarified. My local newspaper is called Skaraborgs Allehanda. When I read it the other day, I was happy. The Government, together with Monica Green, had written about how good the professional programmes are. It wanted to highlight the importance of choosing professional programmes. It was mentioned that there has always been an opportunity to enter general university qualifications. Therefore, I was a little sad and disappointed when at the beginning of the speech of the Government, it sounded like Björklund would have been interested in not having that opportunity. It's been possible all the way. I'd like to say it again.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-572	Study and career guidance is an extremely critical factor. There you would have to do more. I am interested in knowing in what way the Government wants to raise that issue even more. I know that mandatory prao comes and so on. But it feels like the guidance issues deserve more space in the Swedish school. It is part of equipping young people for the important choices they will make in the future. Another question that I would like to take this opportunity to ask concerns something that came up in a previous line shift. It is about quality and several different parts in terms of quality. What makes it so difficult to measure progression? Schools could demonstrate their quality, even if they do not have the highest merit values. It feels extremely important for it to be a true picture. The last question concerns, for example, the Volvo Upper Secondary School in Skövde. There we are extremely concerned about the debate that is linked to welfare gains. You're very disappointed in the government.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-575	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Carlsson, for very urgent questions! Let's start with study and career guidance. It is difficult to imagine a time when study and career guidance has been more important than now, when we have a large group of students in the Swedish school who have a great need to know more about the Swedish labour market and about the roads to the Swedish labour market. Take, for example, the programmes we are discussing now. The vocational programmes lead to professions where it is often a very good labour market. It is often, not always, employment conditions that stand up quite well in the Swedish labour market. It is professions that lead to great opportunities for self-employment and jobs abroad. But at the same time we have a large group of newcomers in the Swedish school who may not look as brightly at these professions as they deserve to be seen. Here, study and career guidance has a very important role to play. But I also see that there is an important role for study and career guidance in ensuring that the many young people who graduate from upper secondary school with an incomplete upper secondary school degree really get the chance to know more about Swedish adult education. Thanks to that, there are good opportunities to come again and come again again for those who have not passed the upper secondary school degree on the first try. We have just today set up a major investigation that will review the Swedish study and career guidance. I have great hopes that we can take even more steps to ensure the quality of it. Let me also add that I see that the Swedish social partners, not least employers, have a huge responsibility to ensure that the Swedish students know what the professions are and how fine these professions are as well as to open up their workplaces for internships and workplace learning.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-579	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was a little short of time to ask the questions in a really good way. I would like the Government to be able to highlight some of the very high-quality independent secondary schools which are also limited companies and so on, because there will be such a list in the debate. The Minister mentioned the Finnish mantra that all schools should be good schools, and it is of course also for all of us who are in here. Nobody thinks it's okay if 10 percent underpresences; we want schools to be good. How do we ensure that they are good, and how do we ensure that not least many of the professional upper secondary schools that exist get the conditions? I mentioned Volvo High School. The committee also visited Sandviken, linked to Sandvik, and Lichron in Skövde is another example of a very good school. There are major problems with the political rhetoric that conceals much of the problems that are being highlighted, and I would like the Government to be able to see those parts anyway. I also want to say something about progression. What makes it so difficult to evaluate those schools that, although it doesn't seem so in the grade statistics, actually perform really well? When you focus on the important quality development programmes that the Minister mentioned, such as Collaboration for the best school, I think it is important that you can also demonstrate results in other ways. I would therefore like to hear a little more about the Volvo Upper Secondary School in Skövde and the conditions for continued good education that has a very high level of interest, and I would also like to hear more about the issues of progression.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-584	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that we have independent high school schools of very high quality. Ulrika Carlsson mentioned some. I can add the great high school that I visited in Perstorp. We also have the Technical Upper Secondary School of the Gothenburg Region and the Technical Upper Secondary School of Mälardalen, which has the highest search pressure of all upper secondary schools throughout the Stockholm area. There are many very nice upper secondary schools that run independently, often in collaboration with large industries or employers. From the government's side, we are very keen to ensure that we have a school system where there are independent actors. What is the problem, Ulrika Carlsson, is the profit drive that makes some schools prioritise other things than knowledge and education. There I had hoped that we could agree that knowledge and education should be at the centre of the school's activities, not pursuing profits. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Ulrika Carlsson for the commitment shown by the Center Party to education issues in general and perhaps to people's education issues in particular. The other day, when we discussed peoples' education, I was delighted to see that the Center Party supported all the efforts made in the budget in the field of peoples' education. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my thanks for the good cooperation in this House which led us yesterday in the government to take decisions on additional directives for the Komvux investigation, in which we ensure that the investigation will also look at the possibilities for pupils with intellectual disabilities to move on to comvux, vocational colleges or similar. I would like to thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson but also Christina Örnebjär and Per Lodenius for the great work they have done in this House to promote these students, who unfortunately do not always receive the attention they deserve.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-589	Madam President, I would like For the sake of order and general information, I can tell you that we are now moving a little bit in the education system to higher education and research. The Swedish economy is doing well. Of course, it is gratifying that we are now in a fiery boom. But say the joy that lasts forever. History has taught us that high and recessions relieve each other, which is why it is important that we also equip ourselves for the future. However, the government is acting the opposite way. Instead of collecting in the barns, you honk and run an election budget called good. It gives a little more to everyone, but it also means that during the term of office taxes will have been increased by as much as SEK 47 billion net. At the same time, the government is talking about strengthening Swedish competitiveness. However, the increase in costs that will come, and which is directed above all towards work and entrepreneurship, is a little out of proportion. Looking at what we are now going to discuss about how the budget affects higher education and research, it is true that the government is investing in resources. But it would also have been very interesting to learn more about why you prioritise as you do and how you intend to achieve the beautifully formulated goals. We should remember that the government has said that we should be one of the leading knowledge nations and one of the world's leading research countries. Furthermore, we will have an education and research that is of high quality internationally and is carried out effectively. A third goal is that there should be high-quality research and education throughout the country. What does the government's own performance analysis say about the current situation when we come to these issues? As far as world-leading research is concerned, we have a long way to go. The Government notes that despite large increases in funding in research and development, Sweden has not been able to improve quality. This is measured internationally by looking at the most cited research articles. We are certainly one of the countries that spend the most resources per person, but qualitatively we do not always reach the top. This is, of course, not good, so let us therefore hope that the Alliance's record increase in appropriations and the long-term strategic areas established already in 2009 will produce results in the long term. Nevertheless, it is a bit annoying to note that countries that spend less resources than we do still perform better than we do. The government also departs from its budget, contrary to the advice of many actors, the Alliance's focus on profiling higher education institutions. Instead, research resources are being distributed and, of course, the available research resources are being added. According to the Moderates' assessment, this means that we will find it increasingly difficult to achieve the goal of being a world leader. Quality also worries when we talk about higher education. In fact, it has now been three years since we last carried out quality evaluations. That's a long time. I am well aware that a pilot has been carried out and tried out, but it does not feel good. We Moderates are also doubtful about how well this system will actually reflect the scientific quality of education. When the pilot was run, it turned out that gender equality will weigh very heavily, and if there is a negative outcome in what is called the gender perspective, it can actually lead to an education quality being questioned entirely, even though it is generally counted as one of the most prominent educational and research environments in Sweden in its field. Now I understand that these assessment bases will be revised, and since, as I said, one is somewhat surprised and confused about what we hear, it will be exciting to take part in the continuation. Another objective concerns efficiency. In this area there are many evaluations that unfortunately show that there is sometimes a low throughput in Swedish education system and unfortunately also large drop-outs from education. The focus is mainly on subject teacher training. Worse still, the clear connection that has been demonstrated between the level of the students' upper secondary school grades and the risk of drop-out. The importance of prior knowledge for study success are facts that should render a thorough discussion of the importance of good prior knowledge. We Moderates want to raise pre-requisites, not least for teacher education, but we also see it as a matter of course that the person who wants and believes he/she has the opportunity to complete an academic education should also have the opportunity to apply for it. But we also do not think that it is really fair to an individual who does not have enough prior knowledge to actually be adopted. This is true even if the government is given the opportunity to put forward again the strongly criticised proposal for wider participation. In our world, it can never be universities and colleges that have the formal task of raising people to an academic level. That job needs to be done a long time earlier. That is also why we in the Alliance and the Moderates have focused our reforms on improving the quality of everything from preschool all the way up to the research and innovation system. Another aspect of efficiency concerns, of course, how universities use the funding that the policy decides on. The Swedish National Audit Office recently presented a report on the so-called government capital at our universities. It's saved money. Remarkably, it was shown that EUR 5.3 billion of the total capital of SEK 12 billion actually came from training grants. In short, this means that it is education that, for various reasons, never took place. The fact that the government in such a situation fertilizes with more training places does not seem serious. We Moderates have refrained from doing that. Another aspect of efficiency is in particular the lack of dialogue between higher education institutions and the labour market in order to achieve a better matching of labour and skills supply. Here we hope that the government will take action. Then there was the question of strengthening competitiveness. In addition to the economic aspects that I mentioned at the outset, our firm conviction is that the so-called education premium must be increased. The OECD notes year after year that Sweden belongs to the absolute bottom layer when it comes to getting paid for many years of diligence and toil at the university, and that is not reasonable. Internationalisation is, of course, also an important part of strengthening competitiveness. Here the government is too passive, especially when it comes to taking advantage of the major world-leading research facilities that we have been working on. Any criticism is waved away, even though we see neighbouring countries equip themselves to attract and receive international talent. Madam President, I would like Since 1477, higher education and research have been important cornerstones for the development of our country. But we cannot rest on old laurels, and it is certainly not enough to write beautiful goals. Sweden must become more skilled at working strategically and systematically to match current and future skills needs. To really strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, it is about getting research that can be translated into both education and new companies and ideas. There are great opportunities to succeed in this, but it requires better leadership and a new government.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-609	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats support our particular opinion, but we do not take part in the decision. In higher education and research, there is a difference in funding efforts. Nevertheless, I think that the differences between the different parties are rather small. On the other hand, the policy differs more than can be seen from the various funding proposals. However, we all agree on the main features of higher education. We all want a large, high-quality higher education sector that obviously includes research. I will not repeat all the proud demonstrations we have all said so many times, but basically everyone understands that our prosperity is directly dependent on our higher education system and our research. What is it that separates us? It's of interest here. One thing that separates us is that we Swedish democrats want to combine the basic grant and the research grant at the artistic colleges. If it works well, we can move on with the other colleges. It is a rather big change in the budget, but it should be said that there are probably both advantages and disadvantages of differentiated appropriations. We believe that colleges could manage to get all the money in one grant. Receiving a single grant facilitates the planning of higher education institutions, and this facilitates the administration of those who have positions in both research and teaching. Perhaps we can get a little more focus on teaching by having a single grant. Many who work with both teaching and research tend to focus on research, we have been told. Somewhere we need to start thinking more about the quality of teaching, not just quantity. We cannot focus solely on as many students as possible at the various universities. Those who attend training must also be guaranteed a certain minimum standard. Our study system is, in a sense, quantitative, not primarily quality-driven. A new study aid system, which the government has flagged, should reward quality more than additional quantity. Quantity we already have in Sweden. That's where we're way ahead. As shown in our exercise in this area, we want to reduce the funding for the strategic initiatives and to increase the basic funding directly for the higher education institutions accordingly. We believe that the universities themselves can handle this money and carry out sensible research for them. It is not likely that there will be less research even in the areas that the government identifies as strategic, and more money goes to pure basic grants directly to the higher education institutions. What is the problem with strategic research efforts? It doesn't really have to be a problem at all. The principle of identifying certain areas as priorities and earmarking funds for them is not wrong. However, if the areas become too many, no priority will soon be given to them. In addition, the proportion of basic grants is lower in Sweden than in the most successful research nations. Many researchers have complained about the flora of different institutions where they have to apply for funding. According to those researchers, the time taken to apply for funding affects productive work. We should carry out a major overhaul of all the institutions which currently grant appropriations and cut them to a minimum. Here too, research funding can go to higher education institutions to a greater extent than it is today, rather than taking the detour through another institution, which is largely the case today. Our main focus is to look over and thin out unnecessary bureaucracy. I note that SD is the only party that calls for refusal of Malmö University to become a university. We'll see if everything gets so much sharper when that transformation takes place – it's well until the end of the year. Otherwise, it would have been possible to cooperate researchally and administratively with Lund University, which is not too far away – 40 km. But it is clear that there is prestige in being called universities, especially abroad. In the latest research bill, the government declared its intention to make collaboration into fund-building activities. Let me say straight away that it is of the utmost importance that universities and individual researchers and other professionals at our universities cooperate in all ways that can bring added value. But making collaboration into a foundation leads to errors. That will be an end in itself. Instead of working together to achieve certain results, in the worst case scenario, we are working together to obtain funds, and that leads to errors. Gender theories have been given a much too dominant role in Swedish higher education. I've said it before in the speaker's chair, and I've had a counterattack on that point, if I remember correctly. I told you long before Ivar Arpi wrote his articles. Now we have independent universities, and they can of course put together their courses just how they want to. The question, however, is whether it does not violate the freedom of teaching to force gender literature into courses that involve completely different things. The teacher responsible for a course should not be forced on literature by any advice, literature which, moreover, does not belong in the course. Such a procedure has nothing to do with equality between men and women – which we are in favour of in every way; let me forcefully emphasise – but has more of the character of religious overideology. Madam President, I would like We invest a lot of resources in university research and allocate huge amounts of research money to various institutes. One group that is not being invested in is free researchers, who do not fit in with the systems we have today. It's a little in the nature of things. Let me remind you, however, that many of the epoch-making inventions that have been made in Sweden have been created by free researchers, that is, researchers who have not been bound to any college, working with their own genius flashes. Vinnova should be tasked with providing support to free researchers. Alternatively, the government should invest money in Swedish Innovators or some similar organisation to support free researchers. I believe that Sweden would gain a great deal from this.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-625	Madam President, I would like As I was unable to respond to the speech of the first Swedish Democratic Member, I will touch on what Robert Stenkvist has spoken about, but also a little bit of what has been mentioned before. What I wonder is: In what way do the Swedish democrats invest in Swedish education by, among other things, removing 1.3 billion from the employees in primary school? How does it make it easier for existing staff that they cannot be hired, that they cannot have new colleagues and that children may not get the help they need? In what way is it a bet? In what way is it an effort to remove SEK 2.7 billion from teacher salaries? In what way is it effort to remove 10 million SEK from the School of Music, 20 million SEK from research via the Swedish Research Council, 2 million SEK from the Sami schools and 50 million that would go to strengthen equivalence and knowledge development? In what way are these cuts and cuts prioritised in order to solve the challenges and problems we see in Swedish schools?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-629	Madam President, I would like I'll answer what I had time to take notes. To start with the teacher's salaries, we cut them down because we have our own investment in career salaries and a career-most give, and it is greater than the 2.7 billion that we are taking away. We also have an investment in outside personnel in addition to the Government's efforts. When it comes to the withdrawal of the Swedish Research Council, we instead spend that money on direct basic grants. You might think there will be less research of it. You might also think that giving the money directly to the universities and universities will make more research, which we do. We believe it. I think we should have made an even greater redirection of money, but we were a little careful. The funding reductions in the arts schools were very small and related to a particular project that I read about in the budget, I think. In fact, I have forgotten what kind of project we simply took away the money for. I'm sorry about that.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-633	Madam President, I would like It's not me you should apologize, Robert Stenkvist. Rather, it is the voters you should apologize for not keeping track of what is in your area of responsibility. I hope that there will be some kind of thinker for parties that could consider taking over the government power, including Robert Stenkvist. What is strange in this debate is that it is difficult to debate a budget that is not a proper budget but rather what the Swedish Democrats call a calculation example. In this case, there are reductions not only in the areas I have mentioned. There are major reductions – tens of billions of SEK in reductions – in Sweden's municipalities that will have devastating consequences. Fortunately, the Swedish Democrats do not get through their budget, but what I wonder is this: many voters voted for the Swedish Democrats on the grounds that you would certainly make sure to invest in those on whom it had not been invested. Of course, you also put immigration and other things against welfare efforts. Then why is it that now, after taking a place in the Riksdag, you no longer want to make those efforts, but are going to make cuts? The question is: who is the reason why welfare has been given less resources? Is it immigrants and refugees, or are it Swedish-democratic politicians who don't even know what they have in their own budget?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-638	Madam President, I would like The reduction in appropriations was extremely small in this context. There were certainly no major reductions in appropriations. I don't understand why you make it a big deal. As far as the budget is concerned, at least we have a budget. It's not all the parties in here that have. Yes, we have always said that immigration is a cost to society. It's a cost you might be able to take. You can make it bigger or smaller. I grew up when the refugees from Chile came when Pinochet ravaged at its worst and thought it was an excellent venture. But today it is not a sensible policy. It's a crazy policy. We need to start helping people on the ground, where for the same amount of money we can help perhaps a hundred people instead of helping one here in Sweden – or for that matter in the Nordic countries or in Europe. That is the policy we stand for, and we will repeat it. We will not change it ever, because we are right on this point. It's no longer about helping people. If we could help people in refugee camps who had almost the same standards as we do, immigration would be at least a key issue. But then it's no longer about helping people. Then it's about something else. We stand for our policy, and we stand for the fact that immigration puts pressure on welfare. Of course it does. I don't remember any more questions.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-645	Madam President, I would like Exciting, Robert Stenkvist! You're proud that you actually have a budget. I must agree that it is a good thing that one is in place. I think most parties have one. However, one may sometimes wonder how well your budget is worked out and how realistic it is, but I will leave that to you this time. But when it comes to higher education and research, and I look at what you say – that you increase basic funding and invest resources in increasing teacher density, especially in science and technology – I find it difficult to see how it is shown in the budget and where that money is located. I would like Robert Stenkvist to comment on that. Another question relates to what Robert Stenkvist said in his speech, that with strategic research areas this is quite uninteresting. The fact is that we as politicians have a responsibility towards our taxpayers. Every year, the Swedish State allocates SEK 35 billion to research. Just as Robert Stenkvist said, it is important money, but somewhere we need to get a receipt of how this can help strengthen research so that we get good knowledge base for education but also have a chance of breakthroughs in science. Therefore, I wonder: If strategic research areas are a problem because they are too many, why do the Swedish democrats invest money especially on metallurgy?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-650	Madam President, I would like The investment in metallurgy is based on an analysis we have made that shows that this is of special interest to Sweden. We have ore in abundance, and we have knowledge that few countries have. We have done the analysis that we really should invest a lot more here. I agree that you react when you read this, but we support that analysis. We are investing a huge amount of taxpayers' money, and their proper use and actual currency is a very difficult issue. I guess it's been a couple of years since we discussed the evaluation system here. I'll be humble and say that I find it difficult to figure out which of the different systems is really the best. I have talked to some higher education institutions, and they say that this self-evaluation takes a lot of resources but that they must have it to meet certain international criteria. You can't just have self-evaluation, you have to have some kind of evaluation from UHÄ and so on. There will be systems on systems, and lots of money that would go to research goes to this administration and to the evaluations. But we still need to have an evaluation. I wonder how much money and resources really go to just evaluation. That is also a question we must begin to ask ourselves. As far as the budget allocation is concerned, it is a single allocation. As far as I remember, we're spending 250 million on increasing teacher density. This is an overall allocation, so you don't see it in the budget.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-654	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Stenkvist, for the answers! We do not see the appropriations, but there is usually a special grant for universities and colleges, where this should be included. This includes, for example, the funding of the Moderates; it is about us wanting to strengthen the teaching time of, among other things, teacher education. This is 400 million kronor for next year. We have also increased the basic grants to the Swedish Research Council, as Robert Stenkvist talked about, by 150 million in addition to the increase actually made by the government. So it is possible to read it out on our side. When it comes to the question about the strategic research areas, it is a little interesting to follow Robert Stenkvist's reasoning. Metallurgy in all honor, I can personally share that view. We have plenty of ore in Sweden, and of course we can use it for something more constructive. LKAB is a really good producer. But note that this is the Swedish Democrats' own, home-made analysis. Once the strategic research and innovation areas have been identified, a comprehensive analysis has been carried out by all state funding bodies. They have also taken part of the research council's preparations and obtained referrals from different sources. I apologise, but there should probably be greater credibility in the strategic research areas we will then find.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-657	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that doesn't surprise me at all. When I look at the strategic research areas, they seem pretty obvious for Sweden to invest in. It's not weird. Various experts have concluded that these are the areas in which we should invest. But I think a learned, interested layman would come up with about the same areas-- they seem pretty obvious. If we reduce this, there is absolutely no intention of less research; perhaps I missed it in the speaker's chair. We believe that there will be at least as much research in these areas if the universities and higher education institutions are allowed to control the money themselves. I am absolutely convinced of that. But, of course, it is also a lay hoax. We put faith in the higher education institutions. When it comes to the appropriation specification, you are right, Betty Malmberg. We should include this in future budgets. Thank you for that tip!
i-51a09335ed8e043e-660	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for the fact that we are all laymen in many respects, we are nevertheless supposed to lean on research, proven experience, statistics, reports and evaluations when we make our decisions. I would like to emphasise this. We cannot know everything from our own experience; that would be absurd. I don't want to dive into details in any way. I realise that Robert Stenkvist has been registered for the part dealing with higher education and that Stefan Jakobsson, who was here, is not left for the opportunity to take a reply. However, this is a single area of expenditure, and I must ask a question which is not about details but about coherence. Robert Stenkvist said in his speech that our prosperity depends on higher education. I agree, but with a very strong addition: it is also about school in general and about long-term. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats are proposing an Asian school model, a brand new teacher education and also what I get quite a pain in my stomach from hearing: that segregation is not even expressed covertly – you are not even ashamed. We will have a school system with so many different school groups that it will soon be impossible to keep track of them. We're going to have special preparation schools for new arrivals. Bad students are going to on-call schools. Suspected pupils should attend duty schools and professional students in two-year high schools. We will have level groupings with special grades for weak students from year 4. If the Swedish Democrats are allowed to continue, I believe that these groups will increase. I wonder how the Swedish Democrats think about long-termism. Haven't you seen what most people see? I am talking about the need to meet at school and about giving pupils the very best, with educational skills and many different professional categories, to which they are entitled.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-665	Madam President, I would like As far as teacher education is concerned, there have been criticisms: it needs to be reformed. Among other things, more leadership is needed. Today's teachers have a different school and other classes than yesterday's. More leadership training is needed, to name just one example. When it comes to segregation, I went to the school of the Social Democrats, and there were obscene classes. It was probably some kind of segregation too, but they were needed. Students needed to get away from the regular class for a shorter or a little longer period. Yes, it can be stigmatizing in some way, and it can be segregating. But let me take it from a different angle. We have talked a lot about falling school results and pedagogy based on science and proven experience. But we believe that some of these falling school results are due to the fact that there is too little peace and study in the classroom. That's a whole different problem. Then this thing with emergency schools comes in. They are much like the obsessary classes of the old age. They did well to fulfil their function, and they certainly had both pros and cons. But today it's worse than when I grew up and went to school. Then we had obsessive classes, especially in certain areas. What should we do to create calm and studyo? You can't just come up with new pedagogical theories for the teachers. It will not solve this problem. I am absolutely convinced of that. The school is intended for the high-profile cases where there have been rapes at the school and the victims are forced to meet their perpetrator at the same school. It's terrible.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-671	Madam President, I would like It is terrible that such terrible things happen, which even become legal cases, where students are subjected to investigations and may be sentenced; there are penalties. This is not least about the seriousness of the person affected. But I am fascinated by the imagination that seems to be unlimited with the Swedish Democrats in terms of what the school should look like where these students will gather. I do not understand what the Swedish Democrats are looking at. I'm looking at a school in crime school. What is the result of bringing together these students, who are also suspects? If they get a sentence, they're going to have another schooling, I'll tell you. They will have a completely different situation. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats probably do not need to invent an alternative to HVB homes, to care and so on. There are already Sis schools and so on. Let me also come to another question. I hope that many people will listen to the debate and realise the absurdity of the policy pursued by the Swedish Democrats. It is perfectly possible to gather students who have special needs on different subjects at different times. You can visit any school to see what it looks like. I would like to ask you about something that Robert Stenkvist himself often comes back to and is about gender and gender theories. We usually talk about gender educators when we debate preschool and school. The Swedish Democrats tend not to look at this with gentle eyes. We're gonna let kids be kids. Then I wonder: In what way should we break gender roles? Have the Swedish Democrats taken the impression of the whole metoo campaign and the fact that girls, girls and women are not only subordinates and not only have half the salary but are also exposed to situations that are extremely remarkable? I wonder if the Swedish Democrats are not behind the school law, where it is said that they have a mission to counteract traditional gender patterns and that everyone who works in preschool and school should provide the opportunity for all children and students to test and develop abilities and interests without restrictions based on gender.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-676	Madam President, I would like Depends on what you mean by breaking gender roles. If boys want to play with cars, they should do it, we think. If girls want to play with dolls, they should do it, we think. We do not want to break gender roles there. If girls want to play with cars, they should definitely play with cars. If boys want to play with dolls, they should definitely play with dolls. That is my position. I don't know if it's breaking gender roles. As far as the Metoo movement is concerned, sexual harassment should certainly not occur in schools. It is under any criticism when even some teacher is involved in this. That is totally unacceptable. But something must be done about this too. I've been working at school, and I've been working on this myself in practice. I think we're talking a lot here. And it has turned out that those who have historically talked about this most about themselves are perpetrators. Suddenly it emerges that those who talk the most about feminism and so on themselves are perpetrators. We can't just stand here and talk. We also need to find out what we are actually going to do about the problems. There are Twitter calls against sexual harassment. I'm sorry, but I don't think it's going to solve the problems in school. These are things that teachers and all school staff have to deal with, and they may need to get some more tools. If a student repeatedly assaults someone else through sexual harassment, it may be necessary to move that student, perhaps to an on-call class – not directly, but in the worst case when everything else has been tried. These on-call classes are yesterday's obscene classes.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-681	Madam President, I would like Every year, Sweden spends many billions on higher education. It is not just us in the state that spend a lot of resources on higher education. Hundreds of thousands of students spend time and money every year on academic education. That is why it is extremely important that the courses available are good and relevant, so that people can actually achieve their dreams. It is important for society to get more people into the labour market. It is also important for entrepreneurs to be able to cope with skills supply. More training places are above all what has been the answer from the government, despite the fact that Sweden is already at the top of the OECD countries that have the most highly educated. The government has also increased taxation for those people who have trained, who have higher wages or who work at all and have made it less profitable to train in Sweden. This means that Sweden has a jumbo place in the OECD when it comes to education pays off. The Center Party sees another way forward. We want to prioritise the quality of higher education. We want to highlight the labour market's demand for skills, and we also want to make it more profitable to train. This is necessary in order to succeed in the great challenge ahead of us. We believe that there is a need for a number of reforms in this area. Firstly, we want the quality of higher education to be strengthened. Today, there are many programmes that neither meet the demands and demands of students nor the labour market. World-class education requires that we strengthen quality and that we reward quality over the number of approved students. Higher education also needs to be better linked to the labour market through, for example, better opportunities for traineeships. For this, it is absolutely crucial that we have a strong quality system, preferably externally, in order to obtain as much as possible a more equal and good education. Secondly, we also need to ensure that we offer training programmes that are actually demanded by the labour market. The universities of applied sciences in Sweden today receive relatively little money compared to their academic counterparts. For the Center Party, strengthening the University of Applied Sciences is therefore a priority. We have therefore proposed in our budget that there should be more places in universities of applied sciences. It is also important to improve the possibilities for the university of applied sciences by enabling additional courses and also to create the conditions for more preparatory courses, extended permits and so on. The University of Applied Sciences is very good at providing companies with the labour force needed in the labour market. Madam President, I would like An important issue for the Center Party is also that prospective students have a good opportunity to actually make conscious choices when choosing their studies. The Center Party wants all universities to be evaluated transparently, so that prospective students can compare, for example, labour market statistics or the quality of education. Then it is also important to include the previous students' experiences and opinions about different programmes, courses and higher education institutions, so that future students can make as good and conscious choices as possible. I think this would also be important in order to reduce the number of drop-outs and thus strengthen the opportunities for more people to start the right education from the beginning. Today, four out of ten education programmes are unprofitable in that one loses money by choosing to study a higher education degree compared to not doing so and instead working. In addition, the government has reduced this education premium and made it even less profitable to train – and to work. The Center Party wants to do exactly the opposite. We want to make it more profitable to work, more profitable to train and more profitable to retrain or retrain. That is why in our budget option we have a proposal which not only lowers the tax on low and middle-income earners but also lowers marginal taxes, so that education becomes more profitable. Madam President, I would like Internationalisation is also an important issue for the Center Party. We see the need for more exchange between countries, to enable researchers and students to apply to Sweden and to enable Swedish students and researchers to apply to other countries. The opportunity for us to actually strengthen quality is an extremely important issue in terms of competitiveness, and then international exchanges need to be strengthened. The problems and obstacles we have seen must be removed in order for the opportunities of international researchers and students in Sweden not to be limited. In addition, the prerequisites for crediting courses you have studied in another country need to be better for Swedish students who have applied abroad. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to refer to research policy. It is easy for us here to get into a debate and debate on state research funds. They are extremely important, but I want to stress the problem we are currently seeing. Much of the resources currently spent on research in Sweden are not the government money we make decisions on here, but a large part of the research resources come from the companies. If you compare with other countries, you can unfortunately see that private investment in research and development has decreased in Sweden, while at the same time increasing in other countries. This is an important challenge to have with you. Regrettably, the government's proposals reflect their absence in terms of how to increase the attractiveness of private companies to invest in research and development. It is a very important issue when it comes to global competitiveness and to get companies to go to Sweden and add their investments here. After all, we are in a global market, and then we need strong incentives to actually get investment in research and development here. It contributes both to our development and to more jobs. Competitive taxes are important there, and competitive regulations are important. It is also important that we make available the data available. Madam President, I would like We're heading towards Christmastimes, so I thought I'd finish by highlighting some parts that I think the government has done well. I want to start with what the government has presented when it comes to summer courses. I think it is a good step that we have finally presented proposals to get more summer courses; it is important for us to be able to increase the flow of the system and give people who want to keep a higher pace of study conditions to do so. It is also good for the labour market as a whole. It is therefore a good thing that a proposal has finally been made in this area by the government. It is also good that the government has set up an investigation into the resource allocation system. However, Sweden needs reforms in higher education to strengthen quality, to meet labour market demand and to make it more profitable to train in Sweden. This requires a new leadership in Sweden.
i-WWrCB3NLG3Txn6uvaTeUo4	Questions are answered today by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, Minister for Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll and Minister Tomas Eneroth. Welcome! An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-695	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, care queues have doubled in just three years. During the Red Green Government, the situation has deteriorated dramatically. This means that more than 100 000 people are currently in healthcare queues. Sweden currently has Europe's longest waiting time in healthcare. In addition, we see major regional differences. According to the latest follow-up, 94% of the patients in Moderate controlled Halland receive their surgery within promised time, while the equivalent in Red Västerbotten and Västernorrland is that only just over half receive it. What new concrete measures do the Government intend to take to reduce queues? The patients shouldn't be in the waiting room. They need to be treated at the right time.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-697	Mr President, I would like to Already in 2013, i.e. before we took office in a government position, we saw how the queues began to increase. Basically, the alliance government almost failed to invest with surgical precision in expanding training places for new staff to health care and investing in staff. I sat as late as yesterday in a health dialogue with the whole of the northern region, which describes the dramatic shortage of staff and skills that is being seen and which is being attempted now. This is why the queues are increasing. Therefore, it is also so important that the government removed the queue billions. We introduced a billion-dollar profession and next year we are making the biggest investments in modern times in health care. Two extra billions are devoted to staffing in health care. An extra billion goes directly to maternity care, and it can be used both to hire and to develop the skills of the existing staff.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-699	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by reminding the Government that when the Alliance Government took over in 2006, we had a very much deteriorating situation similar to the one we are on the way towards. Then the Alliance produced a half, and we will do it again. We have taken the consequence of the embodiment, and we develop it to include, among other things, X-rays and laboratory tests. Today, however, it is the Government that is responsible. Development should go the other way. I repeat the question: what new concrete measures does the Government intend to take?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-701	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, to once again talk about the government's historically large investment in health care for next year. We invest 5 1⁄2 billion, of which 3 billion are directly devoted to hiring more staff, developing skills and improving working conditions. The truth, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, is that the queues started to increase already in your time. You had a queue billion that made the existing staff run faster, with the consequence that a lot of people are on sick leave today.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-703	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Mikael Damberg. In recent years there have been reports of a growing anti-Semitism in our alienation areas. It has emerged that some organisations supported by faith organisations have invited lecturers with anti-Semitic messages. It is unacceptable for these organisations to receive state aid. In our budget, we have allocated funds to civil society's support-making authorities to enable them to better examine the organisations that receive support. Will the government continue to say no to our proposals on the control, supervision and freezing of contributions to organisations that undermine our democratic society and our cohesion?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-706	Mr President, I would like to Anti-Semitism and xenophobia are a poison that is spreading in our society today. The Nazi and other organizations that point Jews and attack Jewish places and symbols must stand up to. We are a democratic society that cannot accept this way of acting. When it comes to organisations and associations, we have a very clear position: no state funds should go to organisations that are undemocratic or act in violation of our democratic values. An investigation to be completed at the beginning of next year is now also reviewing democratic conditions in the state's support for religious communities. This is an important issue to pursue. But political parties in this Assembly also have their own responsibility not to spread xenophobia and not to contribute to polarisation in society. There, the Swedish Democrats have a huge responsibility for the political debate we have.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-709	Mr President, I would like to The minister seems to be getting angry. Recently, the following was said on an anti-democratic demonstration in Malmö: We have announced intifada from Malmö. We want our freedom back, and we're gonna shoot all the Jews. Antisemitism in Malmö has been allowed to grow for a long time. Is the Minister prepared to map organizations and communities that receive state subsidies and spread anti-Semitism and strangle their contributions and secure the security of Jews in Sweden?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-712	Mr President, I would like to Hets against racial groups is prohibited and should be both corrected and prosecuted if possible. I hope that the Police Authority will succeed in this, because Sweden is a democratic society that has limits on what can be said. We will stand up for a country that is open to all and where everyone's democratic and religious rights are respected, but then it is also important that we, as parties, dare to act against racism and xenophobia. The Social Democrats and the government we have right now will continue to do so, even in violation of the Swedish Democrats.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-715	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. Shipping is incredibly important for Sweden. It is also a smart way to transport goods. Shipping goods by sea is both wise and sustainable in the long term. For example, in this region, the Stockholm and Mälardal regions, nine out of ten goods are transported by sea. But there are many obstacles. These include the infrastructure to and from the ports. It is also about the fees that have now been launched. The question then is: how can infrastructure be strengthened? I note, for example, that Nynäshamn is struggling to develop infrastructure, such as Södertörn trail, and that Gotland needs a better connection. What can the Minister do about it?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-719	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I share the view that shipping is underused. We need to use shipping to an incredible extent more in Sweden, partly for climate reasons, and partly because it is purely logistically proving to be an excellent resource when it comes to strengthening Sweden's ability to meet the expectations that exist. It is both a matter of coping with climate change and of being an offensive export country. We are now working in the Government Office on a good strategy that will identify important efforts together with the national plan, which shows the investments we are going to make in the infrastructure. In the near future, I will invite all of Sweden's ports to a meeting. This is the first time I have known how long this is going on. I will have a discussion with the representatives of ports on important priorities for the future. Maritime transport is an under-utilised resource, and there is a need for both investment and increased optimisation of the resources available. We're going to strengthen shipping, and we're going to strengthen the ports.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-721	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I note that, as things stand at the moment, there are two very important elements missing in the infrastructure planning that will extend from 2018 to 2029: Gotland is completely missing, and Södertörn trail does not seem to be happening. These are two important issues relating precisely to maritime transport and freight transport. The question then arises as to how to correct this. The Minister has a great responsibility there. What measures does the Minister intend to take?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-723	Mr President, I would like to What's out now is Trafikverket's proposal. The referral round is just over. I have listened to many comments from both Gotland and the Stockholm region as well as from other parts. I feel that there is a strong commitment and interest in developing the efforts in the future in terms of both the fairways and ports. This will be an important part of the government's choice of priorities, both in terms of infrastructure and what other efforts we can make to strengthen Swedish shipping.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-726	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs and concerns the forthcoming proposal for reformed support for children and adults with disabilities. On Monday, I met the visually impaired. They feel that this proposal is totally reprehensible for them, as it is proposed to have a purely additional cost reimbursement. The visually impaired have had a flat-rate allowance that has worked very well for them. They have expressed their views on the forthcoming proposal to the Minister. My question is quite simple and concrete: what does the Minister intend to do to accommodate the visually impaired and their proposals for change and improvement?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-729	Mr President, I would like to It is important to remember that the reformed support for some of our disabled people is something that began in 2006 and was then worked on throughout the time of the alliance government. While we have been working on this proposal, we have had close collaboration with all disability organisations in Sweden. We were also very clear when we presented the proposal just over a month ago. In the case of a purely additional cost compensation for visually impaired persons, it is a modernisation of the regulatory framework. All other categories that have some form of disability already have such a pure additional cost reimbursement. This is something that is also strongly supported by, for example, functional rights Sweden, precisely to ensure the individual's needs and not to have this type of extremely old-fashioned flat-rate compensation.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-732	Mr President, I would like to The minister's wrong. It has not been talked to the visually impaired until the twelfth hour, I would say. They have also pointed this out. There are reasons why the visually impaired have had a flat-rate allowance. It has not been as easy for people with this disability to be able to tell them what different expenses they have for which they need additional expenses. That is why I ask again: will the Minister take their views seriously and try to comply with them?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-735	Mr President, I would like to This is, as I said, a proposal that has now been worked on since 2006, even during the entire period of the alliance government. They have had reference groups where the National Association of Visually Impaired has been included. I informed them and the other disability organisations in mid-October. They have had every opportunity to express their views, including in the referral procedure. We have also taken them into account in the proposal we are now making, which is strongly supported by everyone else.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-738	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. Trade unions and employers have reached an agreement on starting positions. This is an important step to make it easier for newcomers and the long-term unemployed to get a job. According to the proposal on establishment, the jobs should be full-time and normally lead to permanent employment. The job must include training on paid working hours, and the salary must comply with collective agreements. But the bourgeois parties stick to their proposal to legislate for lower wages, even though they promised to withdraw that proposal on the social partners developed a corresponding solution to facilitate entry into the labour market. My question to the Government is therefore: What benefits for Swedish competitiveness does he see with the model for establishment positions presented by the social partners in relation to other proposals?
i-57gArDG1khVvrJAdPW8ALD	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for the question! We are seeing a strong labour market today. Many new jobs are emerging – the Swedish Public Employment Service expects 250 000 new jobs to be created in Sweden in the next few years. But the big shortage and the big problem in the Swedish labour market is a lack of skills and that we do not succeed in matching. We must give people better opportunities to get into a traineeship or receive education in order to take the jobs required by the Swedish labour market. We had a discussion about the start-up jobs where the parties have now agreed on a principle agreement. I heard the moderate leader say that they would pursue their proposal unless the parties arrived at theirs. I would warn against a model that goes against the parties in this area. Such a model would lead to political circuses regarding legislation on wage levels and to more conflicts in the Swedish labour market. That would not be good for Sweden.
i-6fnsZY7zWFSukjyn7KxRrL	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for your answer! Could the Minister elaborate on this a little? I myself have a background in the European Parliament and know how the discussions tend to go about lower wages versus the Swedish model. We usually have a little difficulty explaining the benefits. How does the Minister see that the Swedish model would be affected if we were to legislate for lower salaries in Sweden? And how would this affect our Swedish competitiveness on the world market?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-749	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has uniquely few conflict days on the labour market. Employers don't want a lot of conflicts – that's the first part The second part is that we do not want electoral movements dealing with wage levels. Sweden would then have a completely unique debate in an election campaign, because many other European countries are having debates about raising minimum wages. Sweden would have a debate that we in Parliament would lower salaries in the Swedish labour market and blow to battle against the Swedish trade union movement. I think this would be a dangerous way to go. I believe that it would lead to more conflicts, to lower wages and to lower wage formation in Sweden.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-752	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister Strandhäll. You can wish for a lot of things in this world, especially before Christmas. But what more than 800 Swedes today want more than anything else is to have a new organ. More than 800 Swedes are on the waiting list to get a new organ. When I got a new heart ten years ago it was about 500 - 600, so the need has not diminished. We now have two years of a complete investigation to promote the opportunity for all those people who actually want to donate organs, according to all opinion polls in Sweden. Then I wonder: Why is the Government opposed to this investigation taking place and time and not taking advantage of the suggestions contained in the investigation to allow people to donate organs so that more people do not die? So far this year, 27 people have died.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-756	Mr President, I would like to Of course, there is no one who is against us getting the number of people who are willing to donate their organs. That is also why this investigation has worked. Unfortunately, we can see that the legal elements of the investigation did not hold up, as we have also announced. I know that this has also been announced by the Ministry of Social Affairs in special dialogue with the Social Affairs Committee. That is not to say that we will not go further and in various ways encourage the donation of more organs. Among other things, we will give the National Board of Health and Welfare a special assignment. Happily, we can see that both the number of people who are willing to donate their organs and the number of organ donations in Sweden are increasing. Much more needs to be done, however, especially in view of the fact that we know that many more people are willing to donate their organs than we see in reality today. We must, of course, find ways forward, but we must also do so in a legally secure way.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-761	Mr President, I would like to Then I have to ask the following question: which other experts or lawyers could be included that could make a completely different assessment from what this solid investigation has already done? Nor did I receive an answer from the Secretary of State when she was on the Social Affairs Committee. In addition, I note that the Donation Council has not even been informed by the Ministry of Social Affairs of what it intends to do.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-763	Mr President, I would like to We have been out in public and, as I said, the Secretary of State has been in the Social Affairs Committee and has carried out a special examination of the reasons why we are not moving forward with the investigation that is now on the table. I am sure that Penilla Gunther is well aware that the legal elements, which would have been crucial to the success of the proposals that were in the investigation, did not hold up. That is not to say that we would not be willing to look further at this and set up another investigation. But pending that, we will also add assignments to, for example, the National Board of Health and Welfare.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-766	Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of the month, the police presented a security investigation to Malmö. Happily, it showed that crime is falling, but unfortunately the perceived security is worse. One of the major causes of insecurity is car traffic, too high speeds and unattended cars. The fact that it is illegal b lar, unestimated and undetected, is a huge problem. Although measures have been taken to deal with so-called car goalkeepers, there are still problems.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-769	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question! I very much share the view that this is a problem, a growing problem. That was one of the reasons why we in the government's budget bill spent EUR 25 million in order to help municipalities, for example, to remove the cars without registered owners that exist today or to deal with car keepers. We intend to move forward with efforts to halt this development. There is currently a review of the law, and I regret to say that it is necessary. In addition to what we are doing in order to improve traffic behaviour – speed monitoring, less alcohol in traffic through alcoboms and the hands of the steering wheel by prohibiting the use of mobile phones in the car – we must ensure that we can prosecute and better curb a development in which those who drive cars that they do not own feel any responsibility for this. That's why the 25 million is incredibly important.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-772	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer! Strategic and focused work is needed to keep us moving forward on these important issues. I am pleased to hear Tomas Eneroth say that the government is planning further efforts. Is it also prepared to give the Swedish Transport Agency a clearer mandate to address the problem of car goalkeepers?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-774	Mr President, I would like to Yes, if it turns out to be necessary, I have no worries about it, for this is a growing concern. That is why it is so necessary for us to use the tools available. The resources are a part, and the municipalities now have the opportunity to use the increased funds in the budget bill. But then, of course, it is a question of having adequate legislation. There's a review going on. Should it turn out that the Swedish Transport Agency needs better tools, I am of course prepared to contribute to this.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-776	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Annika Strandhäll. As the Government knows, the New Karolinska Hospital and the entire health care system in Stockholm County Council are rocking, one might say. New Karolinska has a lot of problems: major defects in the building, extreme consulting fees, an IT error that has caused death and so on. In addition, it now turns out that the sharply reduced number of birth places at the New Karolinska Hospital, about 1,000 on an annual basis, will exacerbate the chaos that already exists in Stockholm County Council. The major investments we have now made together at 1 billion risk being mined here, I think.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-780	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the description! Of course, I am also following developments in the media regarding both the NKS and the other parts. As Karin Rågsjö well knows, it is the Alliance that has been responsible for health care in Stockholm for more than ten years and the construction of NKS. This is probably an issue that we need to look at in particular order. But, of course, I am extremely keen that the major efforts we are now making in maternity care go to what they are intended for, that is, to employ more staff and to improve the working environment and working conditions of midwives and maternity workers. I have recently had a medical dialogue with representatives of the Stockholm County Council, where we have discussed the issue of childbirth in particular, and I have specifically highlighted what this money is intended for. Then, of course, we will have to follow this up closely. But we also negotiate with SKL on the details of the content.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-783	Mr President, I would like to Government of Strandhäll! It is extremely important to follow up that this money goes to jobs, specifically when it comes to county councils that say that the money is completely meaningless, because there are such county councils. It's insanely important. I am pleased that the Government is following the question.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-785	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö! Yes, it's incredibly important. We know that far too many prospective parents today are concerned about their coming birth. Not least, we have seen examples from Stockholm of this. That is why these surgically precise means are intended to increase the security of parents and improve the situation of the labour force in maternity care. I will follow this very closely.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-789	Mr President, I would like to I have spent a while looking at the election manifesto that the Social Democrats went to elections in 2014. In the election manifesto there is a promise to raise the requirements of teacher training. The requirements for entering teacher training would be increased and the pace of teacher training would be increased. The demands for students would be raised, and there would be more ways to become a teacher through, for example, Teach for Sweden. Reading the 2014 Social Democratic Election Manifesto is almost like reading a school political movement from the Moderates. But what is alarming is that none of the promises have actually been implemented. My question to the Minister for Higher Education and Research is therefore: when will the Social Democratic election promises on teacher education be fulfilled?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-792	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Maria Stockhaus, for asking me. We are in the process of expanding teacher training to meet the great need for new teachers we inherited from the alliance government. We inherited two major challenges: falling learning outcomes and rising teacher shortage. Now we have been working since day one to try to meet these. Unlike the Moderates, we are now making sure that there are more training places. We also make sure that there are more ways into teacher education, and we are gradually working to strengthen quality. At the moment, the first major national evaluation of the entire teacher training is also under way. It will be very important for the future. When it comes to access to higher education, we have received an investigation that has now been consulted and which will lead to a bill in Parliament this spring.
i-8YqhnnwqoTb4Fx9Md4qF57	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Now I did not ask the question of increasing the number of seats. We have previously debated in this House that UKÄ has failed it as a method for getting more teachers and believes that it will rather lead to more drop-outs. Of the promises made by the Social Democrats to elections in 2014, I cannot see that something has been achieved. Now there's barely a year left until the next election. What do the Social Democrats intend to do about teacher training for the rest of their term of office?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-798	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the supplementary question. As I said, there has been work since day one on fulfilling the promises we made. Among other things, we have contributed approximately SEK 900 million to the increase in the quality of teacher training. We have contributed 90 million for doctoral studies in teacher education to get a stronger research connection. We have also received an initial evaluation from UKÄ about training schools, which also shows good results.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-799	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. We have a Christmas holiday to look forward to, but not everyone is looking forward to this weekend. I'm thinking about patients and nursing staff. Many are concerned about the care chaos that usually occurs during the winter. Already several county councils go out and warn. Despite ordered overtime and hired personnel, thousands of treatments and operations will be postponed during Christmas and New Year. In Stockholm, the situation is serious. Johan Styrud, chairman of the Stockholm Medical Association, says: Without care places, we are forced to send home 80 - 90 - year - olds who can barely walk. ..................................................... The care chaos is not just a Stockholm problem. The situation is the same in the rest of the country.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-804	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, we took over in a situation where the queues had increased for quite some time. With regard to the situation in Stockholm, there has been an alliance rule for over ten years. The government has increased training places to junior nurse, specialist nurse and midwife. Several of these programmes will deliver new employees next year. From next year, we will also expand medical education. We have increased the general state grants to the county councils, and from next year we are also making the biggest investments in modern times in health care. The question of accessibility is very much a staff issue. It is about getting better opportunities to hire more and be able to improve the conditions for those who work. These efforts are making the government now, and we are prepared to continue with them in the next parliamentary term, just as we have announced in our budget. It is about continuing general increases in state subsidies to invest in a health care that faces a rather serious demographic situation with more elderly people.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-809	Mr President, I would like to Last week Jimmie Åkesson invited the other party leaders to discuss with the health policy spokespersons the serious situation of Swedish healthcare and what can be done together to reverse the negative development as quickly as possible. We are in a position to put aside all political prestige. Unfortunately, five parties refused, and two parties did not even try to respond. What does the Minister of Social Affairs think about that?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-811	Mr President, I would like to This is due to the total lack of credibility of the Swedish Democrats on this issue. You have not pursued any policy of your own in this area at all, and, moreover, you are prepared to support a tax-sink government with a moderate Prime Minister. Do not come and talk to me, who is the representative of a government that is making the greatest efforts in modern times in health care, that we are going to discuss this issue with you, because you have no credibility!
i-51a09335ed8e043e-814	Mr President, I would like to Winter is here, and it's less than ten days till Christmas Eve. All Christmas presents are coming up, and Santa needs help from the haulage industry– I hope there are no children watching this Question Time. Many Swedes will also travel during Christmas. The infrastructure is crucial for many during these days and throughout the winter.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-816	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Jasenko for the question. There's a lot to do. During the spring we will present record investments in Swedish infrastructure. It is a total of over 700 billion that we invest to strengthen the infrastructure. When it comes to the winter road team, we should remember that in order for us to be able to drive safely on our roads and for the packages to arrive, the vehicles must have such equipment that will allow them to arrive. Therefore, we go forward with legal requirements on winter tires on all wheels of trucks and trucks trailers. I am surprised that this has not been introduced before, because it is important for the road safety of all road users, both lorry drivers and others. This is an important piece of legislation, and it is a good way to ensure that everyone can travel more safely on the winter road team in the future.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-821	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue for the whole of society during the winter. From the E6 in the south to the E10 in the north we need roads, and also railways, which work throughout the winter, because otherwise our plans do not work, whether you are an entrepreneur or a private person.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-822	Mr President, I would like to That's absolutely true. That is why it is important that we have room for both investment and maintenance, that we have a safer vehicle fleet with properly equipped tyres, that we make clear demands and that we have resources for good winter road maintenance. Here the government takes several initiatives that will lead to better accessibility.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-824	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. Today, we were pleased to learn that a united pension group has decided that the right to remain in work for those who want and can be increased from 67 to 69 years. At the same time, there is a gradual increase in the age to retire, from 61 to 64. This worries some who feel that they will not be able to work so high up in their ages.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-828	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Westerholm for the question. Indeed, it is a pleasure to be able to move forward with this pension agreement which will ensure, in the long term, that we have both increased and more secure pensions. This needs to be done with great care, and that is why it will be between us six parties that are behind the pension agreement over the next ten years. In addition to this, we have already implemented several improvements to the working environment. Among other things, we will have a new Agency for Safety and Health at Work in place from next year. We will also present in the coming years, and we agree on this in the agreement, more improvements to the working environment and also opportunities for transition during working life. Today, the average retirement age is 64.8 years, so many are already working so long. But for those who cannot cope, there will be protection in the form of, for example, the inclusion of security systems in this change.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-833	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The Work Environment Act is a framework law and therefore vague and fuzzy in its objective. It needs clarification through directives, guidelines and so on. It is an important part of this work, because it then signals to various authorities, municipalities, county councils and employers in the business community what they need to do.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-835	Mr President, I would like to What is gratifying is that during this parliamentary term we have introduced a new paper and a work on social and organisational work environment. The main reason for sick leave today is stress, so we need to improve the psychosocial working environment and develop this work in the coming years. The agreement also includes a delegation for older workers to help more people see the value and benefits of our seniors in the labour market. I am very pleased because you are needed.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-837	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister Eneroth. A month ago, there was a crisis on Gotska Sandön. A fishing boat with one person in had ended up in distress. He was poisoned with smoke, there were two meters high waves and the wind blew north wind. He called sea rescue for help. But when you alerted the helicopter was not running as it was said at the Swedish Maritime Administration in Visby. Instead, you had to turn to Ronneby. What would have taken a short time took two hours. There was a shortage of staff. It also turned out that it was not enough: since 5 December, you are completely unmanned in Visby. This also has consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-841	Mr President, I would like to I do not share the view that sea rescue works badly. We have a fantastic sea rescue with both volunteer and professional forces that make incredible efforts to both save and help those in need in a very good way. When I heard about the incident and the staffing problems on Gotland, I called the Director General of the Swedish Maritime Administration, because they are the ones who are dealing with this issue. I was informed of the situation, and I have been assured that the four-ba system will be able to meet the time of cancellation. But the goal is, of course, to be able to go up into the femba system that exists. Not least the last may be necessary in the long term, given that we now have a government that is investing heavily in defence, increases the military presence on Gotland and establishes a new regiment there. We are making major investments in Swedish security now. In the long term, of course, the sea rescue capacity must also function accordingly, but I am not prepared to transfer it to military defence. I think the sea rescue is doing a great job today.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-845	Mr President, I would like to As far as sea rescue is concerned, I am not prepared to agree with that view. There are big problems. Another thing that has come to light is that two more bases can stand without staffing during the Christmas weekend. The Swedish National Audit Office has criticised the high overtime rates: 600 000 per employee. It's not going well. I think it is better to listen to the investigation that already existed several years ago and that wanted to transfer responsibility for sea rescue to the Swedish Armed Forces, as it has in many other countries.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-847	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mikael Oscarsson is relatively alone in his call for the entire sea rescue to be transferred to the military defence. I think it would be inappropriate. I believe that we should safeguard the strong commitment that exists in the area of sea rescue but, of course, ensure that you are able to make an appointment and that you have the resources at your disposal. I'm certainly not prepared to transfer sea rescue to military defense. I think that would be unfortunate. But as I said, I am glad that we are now investing in defence, unlike what it was like during the time of the alliance government.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-850	Mr President, I would like to The Government intends to introduce a flight tax as of 1 April 2018. The concerns of the aviation industry, airports, air operators, regions and others are very great that the damage effect of this tax from a distance will be permanent. The environmental impact that is the very argument for the government to introduce the tax at a distance is very small according to the investigators of the actual airline tax. Calculations suggest that as many as seven airports, especially in northern Sweden, risk losing their air traffic completely because of the air tax. The Government has put in the 2018 budget more than SEK 100 million to compensate airports, especially in northern Sweden, for the effects of air tax, i.e. the risk of losing air traffic.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-854	Mr President, I would like to The extent to which air traffic is displaced remains to be seen. It is not certain that an extra 60 crowns for a ticket on domestic flights has the dramatic effects that the Center seems to believe. Unfortunately, I find it strange that the Centre Party itself chooses to remove the additional resources available for regional airports throughout the country. After all, you are proposing a saving of 85 million in reduced aid to airports. I think it is important that we have a good, functioning infrastructure, not least in Norrland, where commercial traffic is not always able to cope and therefore can be equipped with public service obligations or other measures to ensure good air connections.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-857	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Helene Hellmark Knutsson. A few weeks ago, the Swedish National Audit Office presented a report on the amount of resources for universities that go to research and education and how these funds are not used. A large part of the money, up to $12.3 billion, is instead being put on high. The so-called government capital is growing. In short, the money is not being used for the right things now. The Swedish National Audit Office is critical that the Government has not reconnected this information to the Riksdag. This is where we decide on the budget, and in order to be able to do this properly, we need to get reporting back on how the funds allocated are spent and how they go.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-861	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ida Drougge! The survey carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office concerns the period 2007–2016. This is a dramatic increase in saved government capital, especially in the field of education. I find it deeply problematic that this money has not been spent on higher education, especially because we have quality challenges. The money has not come to the students, but they were saved on high mainly during the last government's time. It was a direct result of offering only temporary bets. At that time, universities and colleges judged that this was high risk and that the money needed to be saved. The investments we are now making are permanent, and we see that the curve has levelled out and that it is on the road of improvement. But we will follow up and report back on the follow-up to ensure that the money is spent on what it is intended for.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-865	Mr President, I would like to The question goes to Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg. Research and development in life science is of great importance for human health and for combating or preventing diseases. It is one of the main areas highlighted in the Government's innovation policy. However, concerns have been expressed in the industry in connection with Brexit, as a large part of the companies and development work is in the island kingdom. Swedish-British Astra Zeneca, Pfizer and GE Healthcare are some examples of companies affected by Brexit. We know that every tenth person with doctoral studies works in life science in Sweden, and the industry accounts for about 8 percent of Swedish exports. Not least in my own county Skåne is what happens in Medicon Village and the investments in MAX IV and ESS of great importance.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-870	Mr President, I would like to We have had a discussion not least about E ma's placement. We are a little disappointed that the agency did not end up in Sweden, but we had the opportunity to travel around Europe and highlight Sweden's strengths in terms of medicines and life science knowledge. It was an interesting journey, and I think we need to do even more of that. We see that investors in Sweden are currently increasing in life science in several different areas. We have a historic opportunity with Brexit, because now Britain is losing as one of the strongest parties within the EU in the life science field. Then we in Sweden have the opportunity to advance our positions with our strong universities but also our strong companies in this area. The government has given priority to life science from day one. It was the first cooperation programme we set up. We now also see an opportunity to organize the work more firmly in the Government Office and work with a long-term plan to strengthen life science in Sweden in the future. I look forward to continued investment and even more jobs.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-873	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Eneroth. The government wants to introduce so-called environmental zones, and the Moderates welcome the fact that municipalities have more local tools to improve air quality. Environmental zones are such a tool, but design and time are crucial. Leading representatives of the Green Party are talking about completely banning all diesel cars in some cities as early as 2020. This, according to the Moderates, is going too fast. Right now, there is great concern among people that their biggest investment – the car – is at risk of becoming worthless and unusable overnight. The introduction of environmental zones requires an amendment to the Transport Regulation; it is therefore an issue that the government owns.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-877	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Jessica Rosencrantz! It is quite true that it is important that we now manage the transition that will be needed. Around the world we are now seeing city after city set up environmental zones to better cope with the health of the population, as a lot of vehicles emit exhaust gases and toxins that harm the population. It is therefore important that we acquire these tools in Sweden as well. Here we have been successful in changing the vehicle fleet. The government is now preparing a proposal for environmental zones. It is unlikely to be in accordance with the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal without any changes. We are therefore preparing the question and intend to come back with proposals on how municipalities can voluntarily introduce different types of environmental zones. On the other hand, I am concerned that the Moderates in debate articles and in other ways are spreading concerns among many vehicle owners through incorrect information that diesel cars should be banned. This is not the case at the moment.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-881	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. This morning Vetenskap & Allmänhet presented its annual survey. There you can see that the confidence in researchers is very great. However, there is a gender gap which is the largest observed between men and women since the opening of the 2002 survey. Even when it comes to the perception of research as career choices, there is a difference between men and women. Forty-four per cent of male 16 to 29-year-olds are willing to become researchers in the future, while only 22 per cent of women see similar prospects. How does the Government view the increased differences in views due to gender?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-884	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Svantorp, for a very urgent question! This is an issue that we have been working on since we took office – the unequal academy. The figures show that it affects confidence that we have an unequal academy. Even today, only 26 percent of professors are women despite the fact that women have long been in the majority among students and soon there are just as many among doctoral students. It is also worrying that research is not considered a career choice. Here, the government makes many efforts to improve, including by offering better and more secure doctoral and qualification positions and by ensuring that gender equality integrates all universities, colleges and research funders. These are many important pieces of the puzzle so that we can take advantage of the full expertise of both men and women and get an equal academy with high trust among both men and women.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-887	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Eneroth, and it's about the East Link. Finished dates for Ostlinken are pushed further and further ahead. The latest message is that it should be completed between 2033 and 2035. The cheese link will have an enormous impact in Östergötland, not only in terms of commuting between labour market areas, but also in terms of business, transport and business. But it will also affect many property owners, who will have to set aside land for Ostlinken – many times land with great emotional values. That's why I'm asking my question. Östergötland is waiting for word. Is the plan holding up? When will the East Link be ready?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-890	Mr President, I would like to I recently had the pleasure of participating in the opening of the construction of the Kardonbanan railway, which is an important prerequisite for what will then be the continuation of the Ostlink. There was great commitment and interest when we did this. As I'm sure John Widegren knows, the Ostlink is part of the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan. The referral period is just over, so I will have the pleasure of reading the referrals during the Christmas weekend. Then the government will put its foot down sometime in March April. I think it is important that this type of large, important investment for Sweden is broadly based, and I will therefore have talks with, not least, the alliance parties about the conditions for major important investments in infrastructure. Unlike during the time of the alliance government, we have 100 billion more in the budget now available for investment in infrastructure. It will be enough for a lot, but perhaps not for everything. Legally secure and financially secure health insurance
i-51a09335ed8e043e-894	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. Health insurance must be legally secure and provide financial security in the event of illness. Unfortunately, we have taken note of cases where the Social Insurance Agency has not complied with the case law and where ongoing rehabilitation cases are interrupted, although both doctors and employers consider that it is a good forecast for a part-time employee to be able to return full-time. Square time limits that do not take into account the individual and the misassessment by the Social Insurance Agency when applying normal work are two problems that need to be addressed.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-897	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eva-Lena Jansson, for the question. I, too, can see that, although we have changed the policy and a great deal is going in the right direction, we still see major shortcomings. Among other things, these are people who end up between the chairs or whose rehabilitation is interrupted. It is incredibly important that Försäkringskassan takes its coordination responsibility very seriously, that you participate in rehabilitation meetings and that you are active together with employers and health care. It is also important that people later in health insurance should not fall between the chairs, between, for example, Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan. As politicians, we must demand that our authorities be able to work together. I am prepared to take further action in this direction. At the turn of the year, for example, the possibility of withdrawing sickness benefit will disappear retroactively, and at the turn of the year next year we will introduce new legislation on early rehabilitation. The improvement of insurance continues at a steady pace.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-901	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Damberg. I have noted that the Government has been committed to payment times of 30 days. This is, of course, an important issue, where there is a broad consensus between the parties in Parliament. However, what gets you worried about is when the state itself does not make sure to pay on time. I am thinking of all the private assistance companies that are now in acute liquidity shortages because the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is not paying their invoices on time. I have read a study that shows that four out of ten assistance companies are not paid on time. In addition, the survey showed that Försäkringskassan has simply lost the documents for 7% of companies. Since Damberg has shown such an interest in 30 days of payment time, my question is: What has the Government done, and what does he do, to influence government authorities and companies to pay on time?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-904	Mr President, I would like to It is a hugely important issue for Swedish industry that small and medium-sized enterprises are not used as banks by large companies. This has been the trend, and developments have gone in the wrong direction in Sweden despite the fact that many other European countries have had the opposite development. It is an important issue, and I am very proud that we have now reached an agreement in principle where the largest companies in Sweden have promised to start paying small and medium-sized enterprises after 30 days. We have legislation today on public activities. Authorities and public operators are therefore obliged to pay within 30 days. If you do not, you will also have to pay interest and additional charges for the delay. But that's not an excuse. The legislation in force shall apply and authorities shall comply with the legislation. You have a responsibility to work with that.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-907	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. Yesterday, a 17-year-old boy was stabbed to death in a high school in one of Stockholm's suburbs. What caused another boy, his age, to commit an act that would end in the death of a schoolmate, we may not know much about. But it is an act that is devastating in many ways. The obvious is Mahmoud, who was broken about life and his family with whom he struggled to be reunited. But that also applies to the student who was injured when he tried to intervene and, of course, the perpetrator himself. Add to this the insecurity that is created and growing among all the young people who are growing up today. Mr President, I would like to I am deeply concerned about developments, not least in Stockholm. What is the government doing to combat violence in society and to ensure that all people, especially young people, in our country feel safe?
i-SVDreEZuRk6khgr7K8zHLn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Teres Lindberg. I believe that many of us in this House were touched by the terrible news yesterday. The fact that a young person loses his life in this way in a school is very rare in Sweden. It creates a lot of uncertainty, not only at that school, for the staff and for those parents, but also for many parents and children all over Sweden. You start to wonder if it's safe to have your children in school. It is important that our thoughts go to both victims and loved ones. The government has reviewed the situation carefully, and we are following it closely. The Authority believes that the government cannot do anything emergency in this situation. But what the government does is that we are doing long-term work with strong efforts, not least on the police. There will be a huge development of resources over the next three years in order for the police to be given better conditions. The Swedish National Agency for Education also has an important task when it comes to working with guidance for preventive work and with the support material that has been developed with the relevant authorities.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-915	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. Twenty years ago, the Swedish Parliament decided on the zero vision. A lot has happened since then. But a lot of questions remain. What questions remain on the agenda? And what lies in the tube of decision regarding the zero vision and its future?
i-HpnN1WMWiP19QGwywcSTQJ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Johan Andersson! When the zero vision started, there was a lot of international attention. Sweden has since been the world leader in road safety. At the same time, the government has said that it is not enough to be a world leader. We will increase the level of ambition even more. This means that we are now re-launching the zero vision. In the budget bill we propose automated alco-boms, which will reduce the opportunities for affected road users to get on the road. This applies not least to heavy goods vehicles. We propose a ban on handheld mobile phones. Hands on the steering wheel. You can't drive a vehicle and try to text or chat at the same time. We propose mandatory legislation on winter tyres on all wheels, including on the combination of heavy transport and buses. This will make the traffic environment safer. We also set aside resources for more middle separation so that we do not have collisions. We will have safer traffic thanks to these efforts.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-925	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Strandhäll my question. Many people who are currently on sick leave are affected by stress-related illnesses, which are also linked to the work situation. If you don't change anything in the workplace, they can't go back to it, and if they do, they'll get sick again. Employers have been passive in changing this situation. Now I know that in talks with the government, the parties have made a promise of healthier workplaces. What is happening on that question?
i-SMh6uy8JdL5enJxcQmwZAH	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Phia Andersson! We have had an agreement with the social partners in all sectors for almost two years. It is committed to promoting the work of healthier workplaces. This was against the government withdrawing a legislative proposal on health exchange. We see some hands. But much more needs to happen. Employers need to step up their work. We have far too high health rates in not least the public sector, but also in private welfare services – women-dominated workplaces, in elderly care and, for example, home care. At the same time, there is a great shortage of labour in these professions. That is why this needs to be a priority. It is important for the individuals affected by the disease. This is important in order to deliver services to citizens. It is important for the whole of Sweden. A call to these employers is therefore that they need to step up their work even more. We will follow this closely.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-934	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. Employers are screaming today for skills. It is one of the inhibiting factors for growth. At the same time, some 100 000 are unemployed, and quite a few of them are far from the labour market. Action is needed to reconcile that equation. Taking advantage of all people's abilities, no matter how they look, is important, not just the individual's livelihood and self-esteem. It is also about the efficient use of our common resources and an opportunity to facilitate the supply of skills to employers. I'm curious about the government's commitment to green jobs. In what way does Minister Damberg see that green jobs can contribute to improved skills provision?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-938	Mr President, I would like to The government is now making a huge investment of SEK 910 million in the coming years, to stimulate more green jobs. It is about modern state preparedness jobs that go to both new arrivals and those who are long-term unemployed. We see that there is a great shortage of staff in the green industries. The industry says that some 3 000 people are already missing, and there needs to be a change of generation. We have reviewed the needs that exist and that do not meet today. It is about clearing forests, cleaning beaches and increasing safety around roads and railways. Now we are investing in people being able to train quickly in this and learn to work in such a profession and then be able to take the step in. We expect it to be a good opportunity for both newcomers and the long-term unemployed to enter the labour market and an opportunity to solve some social needs and at the same time create more jobs.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-941	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Eneroth. One problem that has grown sharply in recent years is illegal traffic schools, which now exist throughout the country. They often lack permission from the Swedish Transport Agency and as a rule only have supervisors and not trained traffic teachers. They do not pay taxes, they do not pay insurance and they do not pay fees for permits. They are simply engaged in unfair competition. In Södertälje this is a huge problem. But this also applies to the entire Stockholm region, and as I said, it has spread throughout the country. The number of high traffic schools forced to shut down is increasing at a raging rate. And as many as 80 per cent of the transport schools affiliated to the Swedish Transport Schools Association feel that they are exposed to unfair competition from black driving schools in their locality.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-946	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question, Ingela Nylund Watz! We must realise that a great deal of new work is needed in this area, in general, in driver training and in ensuring that we have more serious players. We should remember that the majority of those who pass driving tests and driving have attended a professional traffic school that has trained teachers. More and more privateists do not complete or fail their education. It's even worse for those who go to black traffic schools. I am pleased that the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency have gathered several actors to make a joint and proper review of the entire driver training system. I will follow this work closely and am very much prepared to take several initiatives, to curb the development of black driving schools but also to promote professional and skilled driver trainers so that we get increasingly safer traffic in the future.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-951	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. Emil was lucky. He had a family that took his drug abuse seriously. They sought help, and he was referred to a nursing home in Skellefteå. The family was breathing out. But here Emil's luck ended. He died of an overdose at the home that was supposed to protect him from that very thing. The company that owned the treatment home had sales of SEK 21 million in 2015 and topped the year before the growth league in Västerbotten. Nevertheless, the inmates, including Emil, were mistreated.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-954	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emilia Töyrä, for a very touching description of this case. The resources that we allocate for Swedish welfare and the taxes that go there should of course go to a quality-proof and good business for those who are patients, users and citizens of Sweden. Next week we will be presenting the directives for the study that will review the search for profit in healthcare – this in order for us to find a model that ensures that even in this area there will be serious actors. The resources that we set aside should go where they do the most good, namely to those who have set aside funds for it to work when you need it most.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-956	Madam President, I would like One of the biggest challenges for us as elected representatives is that society is changing at an extremely rapid pace. I don't think anyone will be able to tell us what our society will look like in 15 or 20 years' time. Which sectors will it be that need labour? Which sectors will exist? What knowledge is needed in our new society? With this, I would like to show two different parts. The need to be able to change our education system to the new times will be of the utmost importance to meet the new challenges that are coming. The need to realise that we need to put ourselves on the school bench not only once, but perhaps two or three times to supplement our knowledge. There will be no exception for us as citizens, but rather a rule – this in order to meet the need for new knowledge that arises in our society. We are well aware that our future lies in being a nation of knowledge. In other words, we should encourage those who are able to educate themselves to do so. The number of shortage jobs is increasing, and we must enable people to change careers and to have access to staff in the shortage professions that exist. We need to focus more on the opportunities for change, flexibility and training that lead to jobs and entrepreneurship. The Christian Democrats believe that people who attend vocational courses or courses at the University of Applied Sciences have far more opportunity to get a post-graduate job than after a labour market training course contracted by Arbetsförmedlingen. As a state, we must dare to make changes that represent a marked change in the individual's ability to work, although decisions can sometimes be difficult to take. The employment agency needs to be narrowed down and just do what you're best at. At the same time, we must invest more in making the education system more flexible and taking care of those who are change-oriented in order to adapt to the labour market. Madam President, I would like By phasing out labour market training, around 3 150 full-year jobs will be lost in labour market training. Instead, the Christian Democrats are allocating funds to create more places in vocational adult education. Vocational adult education is upper secondary education for vocational education and training. Thus, with the Christian Democrats' investment of 537 million in addition to the government's money in 2017, a large number of additional positions will be created in the profession beyond what the government allocates. During the following years, Christian Democrats will invest SEK 387 million in 2018, SEK 447 million in 2019 and 2020 in addition to the Government. This represents a total of 18 000 places in the first two years and 22 200 places in the next two years. In 2015, the Job Programme Investigation appointed by the Alliance Government submitted its report on Selecting a profession. The study identified a number of sectors where recruitment difficulties exist for professions that do not require post-secondary education. This applies, for example, to chefs, truck mechanics, medical secretaries and installers. In more narrow industries there is a shortage of glass masters, real estate technicians, bakers or pastry chefs and many more. The expansion of the number of jobs in the professional community should not only result in more people currently unemployed getting jobs, but also in the better functioning of society as a whole when important shortages can be filled with skilled staff. I would like to conclude by emphasising the importance of research in Sweden. Higher education and research must harness interested talents to keep Sweden competitive. Therefore, there needs to be opportunities to study or research whether you are a new student or a single two-child parent. The Christian Democrats want funding for growth-friendly research and innovation to be given priority. Sweden will be able to regain lost ground and become a world leader in research that Sweden has traditionally been a leader in. In this way, we can also maintain the quality that characterises large parts of Swedish participation in European research cooperation. Madam President, I would like It is important to harmonise with the framework programmes drawn up in the context of European cooperation, which place great emphasis on transforming scientific successes and breakthroughs into new products and services that, in turn, lead to increased growth for Sweden and the EU. We may have some idea of the future, but we do not have an exact map. What we know about is the resources we have available. We have students who have an eagerness to learn and find out new things. We have good higher education institutions that in some area have their tip. We have new arrivals who carry knowledge to our country which in some cases can fit into what we lack. It is about optimising our resources in the best way to create a good future, a future that we ourselves create with a leading research nation where we can take advantage of what comes out of it.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-975	Madam President, I would like In 1997, Tony Blair became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. In the same year, he coined the following winged words: ..................................................... The Swedish Government has the same basic principle. This has been made clear by today's debate. And that also applies when we now focus on higher education and research. Education and research are our main tools for building Sweden strong and strengthening the freedom of all citizens. In line with this, the government in the budget bill states that Sweden should be a leading knowledge nation and one of the world's leading research countries. It enables lifelong learning no matter where you live in the country. It combats unemployment and equips people for today's and tomorrow's labour markets. It strengthens the competitiveness of the business community and provides the conditions for green jobs. It strengthens our common welfare. It contributes to sustainable development and greater equality. And, not least, it raises the level of education in our society and is thus a defence for our democracy. It is certainly needed in these times when there is talk of fake news or alternative facts. Our universities and colleges are in a particular way the bearers of higher education and research. The teaching institutions must therefore be given good conditions to carry out their important tasks. We have to give them that trust. In the Budget Bill, the Government stresses the importance of developing the governance of higher education institutions in order for them to have good opportunities to conduct long-term operations. Therefore, an investigation is currently under way on governance and resource allocation. I'm really looking forward to the investigation proposal. I also hope that this study will lead to a political agreement, which will further strengthen the quality of higher education and research. Another important perspective affects higher education and research. We live in an increasingly globalised world. We can't turn a blind eye to that. We must recognise the importance of increasing the internationalisation of higher education and research. That is why I am also looking forward to the proposals that another study will make in the coming years for greater internationalisation of higher education and research. It will also strengthen quality. In the Government's budget proposal, more higher education places and a strengthened quality are two very important priorities. I therefore welcome the fact that the government is now investing in more higher education places and that several social education programmes are prioritised. Let me give you a few examples. The teacher shortage is now met with a large expansion of pre-schooler and teacher training places. Until 2021 it means about 10,000 new places. The lack of engineers meets with about 1,600 places in the next three years. In order to meet the need for competence in total defence, the Swedish Defence University's civilian educations will be allocated 200 places in 2018 and 2019.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-987	The University of Theology in Stockholm is awarded places to meet the need for education within the Orthodox Church. This is an important part of strengthening integration efforts. In contrast, all alliance parties reduce the funding for higher education institutions' first and second cycle education. Liberals cut down the most. I find it remarkable. This means in practice that the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals say no to the government's expansion of higher education places. They do so despite the lack of skills that we see today in several professions, not least the great shortage of preschool teachers and teachers. Liberals also want to centralise subject teacher education to six universities. They simply want to move places from other universities to these six major universities. How it rhymes with us having higher education in the whole country, I don't understand. I'm a little curious about what the Center Party thinks about this. For me, the Liberals seem to be characterised by elitist thinking, which I hope the Center Party rejects most strongly. Madam President, I would like Does this investment in more higher education places mean that the government does not give priority to quality issues? No, of course not. To expand the university with more places does not mean that you automatically ignore the quality. We need to be able to do two things at the same time: both provide more opportunities for education and, at the same time, ensure that all higher education is of the highest quality. In the budget bill, the government therefore continues to invest SEK 250 million per year in the coming years to strengthen the quality of humanities and social sciences, including teacher training. In this context, I would also like to mention in particular the effort to increase the quality of schools through research schools for employees in teacher and pre-colleague education and a pilot project aimed at developing practical research. These are two examples of how the government strengthens the quality of both higher education and local schools. Added to this is the experiment with training schools that are part of the quality work. Increased quality is not only dependent on whether you get more money or not. Quality work is ultimately an approach. The government's reformed quality evaluation system is an important part of this approach. The University Chancellor's Office has now been given responsibility for both higher education and research. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of higher education institutions to offer courses of high quality. Of course, if you cannot provide quality education, you should not start such training. The Swedish National Audit Office recently presented a report on the government capital of higher education institutions, which has been raised in the debate a few times. It shows that there is a saving of 5.4 billion in the educational part of higher education. There should therefore not be a shortage of capital to strengthen quality. It is worth noting that government capital was barely 4 billion in 2004. Up to 2014, it rose drastically to nearly 12 billion. After that it has remained quite still. However, it is loud as it is. The common denominator between 2004 and 2014 is a bourgeois government, which with a twitchiness with temporary places made it an uncertainty for the higher education institutions. The result was a saved government capital. In today's debate there has been talk of empty spaces. I have to ask if any of the bourgeois politicians can come forward and say how many empty places we have. As far as I know, the government does not give out any seats at all. It gives a grant in money, then it is the higher education institutions that are responsible for the number of places. I think there will be vulgar propaganda when you use government capital in your claim n that there are a lot of empty places everywhere. I do not think that is the case. I would like to comment briefly on the research part of the budget. In the research bill presented a year ago, the government gave its view on the focus of research policy in a ten-year perspective with a particular focus on the years 2017 – 2020. In accordance with the research proposal, the grant will be increased by SEK 1.1 billion in 2018. Nearly half of the increase is due to our higher education institutions. The rest is allocated to the research councils, Vinnova, the Swedish National Space Board and RISE. It is also important to strengthen the research capacity of higher education institutions and young universities. Therefore, the basic salary is increased from 8 000 to 12 000 SEK per student. In the budget proposal, the importance of increased collaboration between academia and the surrounding society is concretized by the fact that part of the grant is distributed based on collaboration. It rhymes well with the research proposal's title Knowledge in collaboration – for society's challenges and enhanced competitiveness. The increase in the basic funding allocated to higher education institutions is important. It strengthens basic research and the situation of younger researchers, including by hiring doctoral students from day one. In addition, the use of scholarships is significantly restricted. At the same time, it is important that research meets major global and national societal challenges. The Research Bill identified five such challenges:
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1006	The creation of a sustainable social fabric
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1008	In accordance with the research proposal, six ten-year national research programmes and Testbed Sweden are now being implemented – a power collection for innovation, which includes five important collaborative programmes. Through these efforts, we can also prioritise the challenge-driven research. Madam President, I would like I am pleased and proud to be able to present overall a budget with high ambitions for higher education and research. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1010	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Strand, for your speech and for the enormous marketing of the government bill! Thomas Strand began by saying, as I said, that one of the goals is that Sweden should be one of the world's leading research countries. Really what should be included in this, Thomas Strand, is very difficult to clarify. How can we count this? We are among the countries that spend the most resources per capita. However, when we compare ourselves with other countries, we do not reach the point of quality. How does Thomas Strand feel that the government is doing it better? What Thomas Strand refers to is an investigation into resource allocation, an investigation of internationalisation, but there are few concrete proposals. It would have been interesting to listen to this. Another issue that Thomas Strand highlights is that we should have more training places. But, Thomas Strand, who's going to study there? How do we achieve quality? How are we going to get more teachers trained when we see the dropouts that exist? We have a reality to relate to which I think Thomas Strand ignores. We have a reality where many students, perhaps in the order of 40% of those studying the subject teacher education, are already leaving only a few years after they start studying. We need more people who have the skills to complete an education. I would like to hear Thomas Strand's point on that.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1016	Madam President, I would like One can reverse the question put to me by Betty Malmberg and ask: What did the alliance government do for eight years? The measurement figures and the results you refer to have a longer history back in time than just the time we have been in power. The fact that Sweden is a little worse than some other countries does not just have to do with the fact that we now have a red-green government in power. It should also be said that Sweden is very good in many ways in terms of both higher education and research. We know that we are a little behind the top research in some countries. Among other things, we usually compare ourselves with the Netherlands, Denmark and Switzerland. We are thinking: why can't we perform as well as those countries? It's about thinking very long-term and having ambitions. When we look at the proposal that is being discussed today and that takes its starting point in the research bill, there is a lot that lays a good foundation. We think ten years, we have ten-year programmes and we have collaborative programmes that are now received with great enthusiasm by industry and the public sector. I believe that in the long term it will lift Sweden as a research nation up to the level of Denmark, the Netherlands and Switzerland. It is fantastic that we can now offer more seats. We should not have any form of defeatism. We shall think in terms of development and vision. Now we offer more places for those who want to study at the university. We have a shortage of engineers. Is it that Betty Malmberg says: No, we shouldn't offer any more places – we do have shortcomings, but we don't know if there are any who are looking for them? You can't reason that way.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1020	Madam President, I would like If we look at another issue that Thomas Strand and I have shared for many years, we have turned for this with collaboration, that the higher education institutions will be better at collaborating. It's about how it connects to increased quality and the goal that we become the world's best research nation. What then becomes strange is that we have a government that today no longer redistributes funds based on quality. It doesn't do it based on citations and not on how much money you gain externally. When you also collect collaboration in it, you take to a method that Vinnova has done. It is a method that means that it is the universities' own stories that determine how much money they get and how good they are at collaboration. It was even a pilot in which not all universities participated. At least they got some money because they weren't even there. It's kind of strange relationships. We are talking about the importance of transparency. We should have transparency and, preferably, some kind of analysis that underpins the distributions we make, but it is lacking. I find that extremely unfortunate. Where does the rule of law go? I would like to hear a little more about what Thomas Strand says about that. When it comes to the training places, Thomas Strand, it is about us having students who apply to the places that are prepared to sacrifice time and complete. Don't come up with the proposal for wider participation! It has been completely sawed, and you have even withdrawn it yourselves!
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1024	Madam President, I would like I'll try to answer, and we'll see if I can comment on all the questions I got. When it comes to collaboration, I talked about it in my speech, and the research proposal is called Knowledge of collaboration – for society's challenges and enhanced competitiveness. We need increased collaboration between academia and industry, academia and the public sector and academia and the surrounding society at large. It's extremely important. This was a question on which the bourgeois government considered a lot, and it set up investigations to find models. But it failed to find indicators. The bourgeois government asked Vinnova to develop models for collaboration in a different way. It tried a third or a second time. This is the model that Vinnova has developed that the government has now used to allocate funds. In the bill it also says that the investigation that is shortened Ostrut, Styr- och resursutningen, should think extra and much about how to distribute money even after collaboration. You'll see this as waiting for it. Maybe we'll get another refined model. We hope that we can succeed in resolving this issue. It is important to also reward collaboration. There are analyses about that. I myself have taken note of what Vinnova has written. It is not entirely taken out of the blue when it comes to the way in which money is distributed after collaboration and how universities have formulated their strategies for increased collaboration. Widening participation is a very important issue, Betty. That question comes back when we have seen ostrich's results and had discussions. It is extremely important to have universities that can educationally meet all students at different levels.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1030	Madam President, I would like In the first half of Thomas Strand's speech he boasted about all the places that are being expanded. In the second half of Thomas Strand's speech, he said: "You can't say that there are no empty seats because we don't give out any seats." My first question is: what part of Thomas Strand's speech should you listen to? My second question concerns teacher training. It is true that Liberals want to concentrate parts of teacher education, especially subject studies on subject teacher education, in certain places. Is this an elite venture? You can call it what you want, Madam President. I think that Swedish students should have the elite of the Swedish population as teachers. Is that the wrong idea, Thomas Strand?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1032	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll just have to take this one more time, maybe a little slower. When the government distributes seats, we all know it's money. Then it is transformed into places, but it is ultimately the higher education institutions that are responsible for how many places there will be. It is clear that this is an important signal that the bourgeois government has given and which we give: that it leads to a number of places. I think it is important to send out that signal to society and to young people who want to study at college. We know we need more doctors, engineers and teachers. It is important to say that we are now investing in these very sectors in order to get more people who want to study and train in these professions. In fact, I think the Liberals are a bit elitist, at least in this area. For me, the Social Democrats and the government, it is extremely important that we have higher education throughout the country. In fact, I believe that we can get qualitatively good subject teacher training even outside the six major universities. That is why this is important. Some people who want to be teachers may have established themselves in some place. It is extremely difficult to get them to move to a larger city, a larger city or a larger university. They want the proximity. Good quality can be developed even in smaller universities. From this point of view, I think it is elitistly thought of by you. I think it is a little sad that you have adopted this approach, because together we could develop the higher education institutions that have subject teacher training, so that there will be qualitative education everywhere.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1036	Madam President, I would like I stand by that I think that Swedish students should meet an elite of teachers when they go to school. I think a lot about how to make sure that the Swedish teacher education is as good as it can be. When you're going to be a subject teacher, you read two subjects very deeply, one more than the other. It's basically a master's degree. It is clear that it is very difficult for a country with Sweden's geographical situation and population composition to give deep subject knowledge in many places. Yes, we think that subject knowledge should be concentrated in subject teacher training in order to achieve a really high quality of subject teacher education. This does not mean that the teacher training should be discontinued in all other parts. This means that one can retain a methodology training. This means maintaining low- and middle-school teacher training, which does not have very deep subject areas. This means that you can keep pre-school education in a lot of places. But I think it is wise to give them in a few places where the students can really get really deeper knowledge. Then there is the place of teacher training. Neither the Social Democrats, the Green Party nor anyone else can well believe that it is the lack of teacher training places that is the major problem for Swedish teacher education. The problem is not that you need to signal: Now there are 10,000 more places. Then you could signal that there are 100 000 new places all of a sudden. The problem is that too few people are looking for the places that exist today. Too few people want to be teachers. This means that admission points are low, and this means that the quality of education is low and therefore the quality is low when these teachers come to school. I want to make sure that the best and most skilled people become teachers and that it is such an attractiveness in education that people flock there. Yeah, you can call it elitism if you want. But I think that Swedish students should meet the elite.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1041	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think we can get elite teachers even in smaller colleges. I know we have a lot of good teachers. Our task is to provide the conditions so that everyone who is a teacher at our higher education institutions is super good teachers. Therefore, it does not matter whether it is at a large university or at a smaller university that you have a subject teacher education. With digitalisation, we can now handle both large and small and get quality right everywhere. I wonder what Christer Nylander is saying to the young people who now want to go to college. In the latest survey, there was a negative trend in teacher training. Some people lost their search pressure, especially pre-schooler training and primary teacher training. On the other hand, it was quite good when it came to subject teacher training. And when it comes to special education, it increased considerably. I am thinking of those who have the ambition to become a teacher or who have a dream about the engineering profession or who want to become a doctor. I wonder what Christer Nylander and the Liberals are saying to them. You say no to another 440 medical training places in the coming years, which we want. You say no to engineering training places. You also say no to teacher training places and pre-schooler training places. What does Christer Nylander say to young people who want to learn when they put a cap on education?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1043	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the Social Democrats, it is easy to get a picture that expensive politics is the same thing as good politics. That is not the case, of course, but the way in which the funds are used. Thomas Strand chose to point out in his speech that the Center Party says no to a number of places, including in teacher training. This is partly because we see that other paths need to be strengthened with regard to teacher training. But it is also a question of seeing another way to meet the supply of skills. Among other things, we have more places at the university of applied sciences than the government has presented. Thomas Strand is worried about how we in the Alliance can get along. I can allay Thomas Strand's concerns. We have ruled Sweden for eight years together. We have also presented a great deal of common politics in the field of higher education for just over three years in opposition. At the beginning of his speech, Thomas Strand raised trust in higher education institutions as a very important issue. During this term, the government has chosen to go into the question of autonomy for some universities in different ways. The issue of quality and location of the au tonoma universities has been discussed. I'm thinking of Blekinge. I'm thinking of Dalarna University. My question to Thomas Strand is: Do you think this is showing trust in the universities?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1048	Madam President, I would like I can only say that there seems to be a huge difference between the Center Party and the Liberals in terms of the localisation of teacher training. I know that the Center Party, like the Red-Green Government, considers higher education to be important throughout the country. This is still a form of schism. I don't know how you're going to get it together if you're going to push both moving places to the major universities and maintaining education throughout the country. Trust is very important. When Helene Hellmark was new as Minister of Higher Education and Research, she went around a lot to the higher education institutions to listen and learn about the questions, thoughts and ideas that existed at the higher education institutions. It's really important. Then there is the question of location. If you have faith, you can also be sharp and speak up. The fact that it is a good dialogue between the government and the higher education institutions actually strengthens trust in that perspective.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1050	Madam President, I would like I would have liked the Social Democrats to have given thought to the societal challenges we face instead of thinking about the next policy of the Alliance. I can calm you down, Thomas Strand. You don't have to worry. I'm absolutely sure we'll get along. We have presented a lot of common policies both during this parliamentary term and in the past. But I did not understand an answer to the question of trust. Thomas Strand chooses to say that the Minister for Higher Education has had a dialogue with the higher education institutions. However, in the actual issues, higher education institutions have discussed quality and location in a broader discussion. The Minister and the government have been very clear. You're supposed to give that to the government. You have been very clear on these issues. But the question I asked was: Do you think this is having confidence in the universities and confidence in the autonomy of the universities?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1052	Madam President, I would like We face social challenges very well, I would say. As I said in my speech: In the research bill, we see five major societal challenges, both global and national, that we have to deal with and face, both from higher education and research. The collaborative programmes that are now being rolled out in Sweden are a good way to meet the societal challenges we face. On the question of trust, there is much one could say. We presented a quality evaluation system, a reform of the old one. Trust is that they listened to the sector's views and opinions. I think that the Government's proposal, which we adopted here in Parliament, very well reflects a confident dialogue with the sector. The broader involvement raised by Betty Malmberg is an important issue that demonstrates a confident dialogue with the sector and that, in order to have a holistic approach, it is prepared to withdraw a proposal and await other studies and proposals. In other words, accusing me or the government of lack of trust does not hold in that perspective. It is very important that we have universities everywhere, just as I said before. It is extremely important and strengthens lifelong learning that we have Blekinge Institute of Technology and higher education institutions in Borlänge and Falun in Dalarna as well as other higher education institutions. It gives people the opportunity to educate themselves locally, and then it is important to have a confident dialogue so that you can be sharp and make decisions that not everyone likes but are still based on a confident dialogue between the parties.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1057	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small country in the north that has chosen a road. It is a path that involves competing with knowledge and skills, with high innovation capacity and with education of the highest quality, not with low wages or precarious employment. Universities and higher education institutions are the backbone of our common community building. It's something that's paid off. Sweden is today one of the world's most innovative countries, unemployment is low and our economy is doing well. Sweden is a strong research nation with world-leading research environments that are attractive for collaboration between researchers and industry. Around the world, they are impressed by how our education system promotes innovation and creativity. Sweden has gone from 17 000 students in 1956 to nearly 400 000 students today. Sweden has a number of higher education institutions on the lists of the best in the world. Three are on top 100 in Times Higher Education, and eleven universities on top 400. It is amazing for a country with 10 million inhabitants in a world of 20,000 universities. Based on Sweden's position as a knowledge nation, we can meet the societal challenges we face, but then we must enable more people to study further later in life and contribute to society's development. We therefore need to continue investing in quality education that is available wherever you live and where you are in life. I am convinced that this is the way forward to continue building Sweden strongly. Reforms are now needed to meet the needs of the 2020s, and I and the government have a clear objective: We need to ensure good access to quality education for people throughout the country throughout their lives and for the whole world. The government is expanding the university throughout the country with nearly 25,000 new permanent training places until 2021. The places of training are permanent, not temporary, as is all too often the case in the budgets of previous bourgeois governments. Permanent initiatives are important for universities to be able to plan well so that money does not accumulate. The government capital from education, which has already been discussed here today, rose, particularly under the previous government. Now the increase has levelled out, but the level is still too high. One of the things you point out as a reason is the temporary efforts made by the previous government. For me, it is essential that you can study further and change your career throughout your life throughout the country. Having good opportunities to study at college whether you live in rural areas or in the big city is a matter of increased opportunities in life. It is also a matter of security. Here I will say that I share Magnus Oscarsson's and KD's view that we need to offer more flexible training paths. We also need to meet the needs that arise in a growing Sweden. We need housing, railways and enhanced welfare. The industry is looking with light and lantern for engineers. The government is therefore investing heavily in educations needed to strengthen the construction of society: engineering educations and other educations that there is a great need for when we build so it creaks throughout the country. The expansion also takes place throughout the country, from Lund to Luleå. This is important, because Swedish industry is largely outside the big cities. Madam President, I would like Access to doctors is unevenly distributed across the country. Sweden today cannot cope with its own medical care, but is dependent on foreignly trained doctors. In previous years, we have expanded several of the important health care training courses. Let's expand medical school. All seven universities in the country will benefit from the expansion. These are important efforts needed to strengthen prosperity and well-being. I can only regret that the Moderates and Liberals do not see the importance of investing in meeting the great skills needs of both welfare and business. I am also concerned that it does not want to strengthen the link between research and higher education but wants to continue to prioritise research funding only to the major universities – precisely those who collect the greatest government capital and do not spend the research funds they have. The way I see it, it's out of fashion to imagine that you're going to train yourself to be a job for the rest of your life. More will need to change course and build on new skills throughout working life. It must be possible to enter the university's doors later in life. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, no parent should have to worry that their child will not receive a full education. The Swedish school will equip our students so that they can create their own future but also contribute to our common. We know that a good school for our children starts with more competent and qualified teachers. Therefore, the many challenges of the school are best met by strengthening the position of teachers in school and in society. The government has since day one been working to reverse the low teacher wages. Through the Teacher Salary Lift, we invest 3 billion annually in raising teacher salaries. 65 000 teachers have already received 2 600 kroner more in their wallets each month with our politics. This is different from the years of the alliance, when the tax cuts took precedence over our teachers and children in school. But we're not content with that. In addition to the extension of teacher training with 10 000 new places, we propose a package of measures for more pathways into the teaching profession. We also continue to strengthen quality with new quality funds, continued work with training schools and more researchers, as Thomas Strand said in his speech. There must also be smart pathways into the teaching profession for people with a different study and working life background. Through an effort of 8 million people will get clearer information to find their way to the profession. In addition, SEK 90 million will be prioritised for further training of teachers and special supplementary educational programmes. To meet the great need for teachers, we are now doing it faster to study the teacher education through an investment in relevant summer courses at eleven higher education institutions. This means 2 000 new summer places as early as next year and then a doubling. During our time in power, teachers' salaries have increased, more are seeking teacher training and fewer are dropping out while more are returning to the teaching profession. The goal is for our children to have studies under the guidance of competent and competent teachers. Madam President, I would like Research stands for hope. It is particularly important in troubled times that we continue to invest in research-based knowledge. In April, the Swedish Parliament decided on the research bill Knowledge in collaboration – for society's challenges and strengthened competitiveness. I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus on the importance of research. In the research bill, we face several major societal challenges. Three are global: climate, digitalisation, health and life science. Two are national: a sustainable construction of society and strengthening the Swedish education system and the Swedish school. Now there will be a workshop of the long-term national research programmes that are linked to these societal challenges. And not only that – we are now increasing funds that go directly to universities and colleges. We invest in improved conditions for young researchers, and we strengthen gender equality. I am convinced that in order to obtain the very best research we need to invest in those who have much of their career ahead of them rather than behind them. Madam President, I would like Swedish citizens have continued to have high confidence in our social institutions. Nevertheless, we live in uncertain times. As Thomas Strand said in his speech, we see that factual resistance, disinformation and mistrust are spreading in our society. I am pleased and proud that we in Sweden continue to invest in education and research while many other countries have made substantial savings. We need to meet societal developments with education, education and transparency. Colleges and universities have an incredibly important role to play here. They conduct free research, offer education and enable people to get jobs, security and confidence in the future. For us, the only way forward is to continue investing in education and research. Knowledge builds Swedish society strongly for the future.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1085	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by expressing my admiration for Helene Hellmark Knutsson, who has been sitting here following the entire budget debate since half past ten o'clock this morning. It's strong, and we appreciate it very much. This is, of course, a budget debate, and it is very much about how we in Sweden should be able to maintain our global competitiveness. At the same time, the government is introducing net tax increases of SEK 47 billion during its term of office. This strikes at workers and at entrepreneurship. I would like to hear Helene Hellmark Knutsson's picture of how this strengthens Swedish competitiveness. Another issue concerns the objective of research and development. The Swedish Government's objective is to allocate 4 per cent of the GDP to research and development. We know that we are at just over 3% today, but we are going to reach 4% by 2020. If so, what we have to rely on is the private sector, which is going to increase its investment. This is where we have competitiveness and can get our companies back. I wonder, and Fredrik Christensson also mentioned this, what the government is actually doing about this. How are we going to get more private companies to invest in research and development so that we reach the government's 2020 target?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1089	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg! Budget debates are, as I said, very funny, and now I also get the chance to debate a little in Magdalena Andersson's area, which is exciting. In order to be able to make not least these extensive investments in education and research, which will build Sweden strong in the future, it is incredibly important that we have managed to turn the huge deficit that the previous government left behind into the largest surplus we have seen for a long time. This is, of course, based on a responsible fiscal policy and the levying of the taxes needed to cover the investments it chooses to make. The previous government chose to make unfunded tax cuts, leading to large deficits. As I said, we have now turned this around. We now have a surplus of 80 billion, half of which is used to save in the barns by paying off on the public debt and half is used for important investments. This is what will build Sweden's competitiveness strong – that there is access to skilled labour, for example, which is one of the biggest problems today. Over a hundred thousand jobs are not being filled today due to skills shortages. According to Eurostat, only two countries in the EU currently reach over 3% of GDP in terms of investment in research and innovation: Sweden and Austria. We should be incredibly proud of this, but not satisfied. This is why the entire research bill aims to strengthen collaboration and improve the quality of research. This is what will make us attractive to investment in research and innovation from the private sector.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1093	Madam President, I would like Let me remind you that during the time we were in charge of the alliance government during a powerful recession. Today we are booming, and the Moderates are not alone in questioning why the government is not doing more structural reforms in order for us to cope with the future. Although the alliance government ruled during a recession, we managed to increase research funding by more than 30 percent. We raised the number of training places. We increased the number of places in medical education, as the Minister mentioned, by 46 percent. Humiliation appropriations increased by 60 per cent and dental training by around 40 per cent. We made these efforts because we saw that research and higher education is what can make Sweden strong. And we still managed to balance to motivate more companies to become and hire more. The fact is that nurses and teachers today will suffer from increased taxes as they come across the breakpoint of government income tax. The Minister also said that we are raising the quality. That's great. But the fact is that the basic appropriations do not increase percentages. Thus, universities are not given any more access. On the other hand, they're getting new assignments. They will both promote merit services and provide more research infrastructure. This is a concern. What I would have liked to have had more time to talk about is how to achieve international competitiveness. We must use our large research facilities, and there the government is guilty of the answer.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1098	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg! As I said, it was a recession, and if you had used the deficits to invest in actual training places, which were not only temporary, we would not have had the labour or teacher shortage that we have today. But you used them for tax cuts. That is exactly where the choice is in politics today: to use our common resources for investments that build individuals, society and Sweden strong or for tax cuts especially for those who already have the most. You have clearly shown what choice you are making in this area. You increased the funding considerably for research, but the quality did not go up. Now we are raising the basic appropriations by 1.3 billion, and we are also making demands. This must lead to increased quality. This is what separates us. Investing in temporary training places has only led to the creation of uncertainty among universities and colleges, which has meant that they have instead accumulated capital at a high level. Then there will be no more training, and above all we will not strengthen the quality of higher education. Now we are going to make sure that this money and the money we provide are spent on both more places and higher quality in higher education.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1102	Madam President, I would like I would also like to start by thanking the Government for having participated throughout the debate. It is appreciated by the committee. The Government highlights in its speech and in the debate that it is important that you have the opportunity throughout your life to study further, retrain and further educate yourself. An important issue which we debated yesterday in committee and which is linked to this is the possibility and economic conditions for people to actually re-train or further educate themselves. The Center Party has put forward a proposal to raise the age limit in terms of means of study, but also to enable a two-year education later in life, such as a polytechnic or master's education, to replenish their skills. I would like to hear from the Government what measures the government is prepared to take to strengthen that opportunity, which is so important precisely for people to read further. We hear the Minister talk a lot about this being a budget that should be seen as a whole. I also think it is absolutely right to see it as a whole. What we are discussing here today is about colleges and research, but there are so many other things that affect. In my speech, I pointed out that four out of ten courses are not profitable in Sweden today. How are we going to get people to want to invest their time and money in education if, in four cases out of ten, you lose income? There are different tools to influence this – make it more profitable to work. We have also put this forward in our proposal, and we have done so in the past: to reduce taxes on low and middle-income earners, but also marginal taxes, in order to make education more profitable. I would like to hear Helene Hellmark Knutsson's opinion on this. Why is the government not prepared to do this, but has acted just the opposite and made it less profitable to train in Sweden? Of course, this affects people's willingness and ability to educate themselves.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1108	Madam President, I would like I thank Fredrik Christensson for these questions. The economic conditions for retraining were raised in yesterday's debate. I would also like to say that this is not just a responsibility for the state, but also an important responsibility that must be taken by the social partners. One of the most important measures of our time in the future is to see how we can cope with this retraining that will have to be done for many. There are figures showing that about half of the currently active labour force will need to be re-trained within 20 years, partly because of rapid technological developments, which change both occupations and the composition of occupations. What I am controlling is to ensure that we can have a more flexible range of training, so that it is also suitable for the professionals. Access to higher education across the country is crucial here. I cannot help but link this to the debate that Fredrik Christensson had with Thomas Strand. Is it really the Center Party's view that we should concentrate, for example, teacher education in just six universities in our country? Why should you not be able to train as a teacher at Karlstad University or Mittuniversitetet? In what way does it increase equality or the possibility for people to remain and grow throughout the country? And in what way does it actually give students around Sweden access to competent both subject teachers and preschool teachers and primary teachers? When it comes to unprofitable education, it is a little bit so that, as you count, you get answers. The most important thing about acquiring higher education is that you become strong in the labour market. Sweden is very successful there, according to the OECD. But we must also count on the fact that very much that is not done in other countries is already paid. Therefore, it is not a straightforward comparison.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1113	Madam President, I would like Let me take note of what we can actually do from an educational perspective. I have a very great faith that people make wise choices if they have good information to make wise decisions. This includes education, which is a huge investment – one of the biggest things you do in your life. If you get good information about what your future prospects are in the labour market and how other students have experienced the education, you are actually better able to make a choice that you land well in, and you may also be able to complete your studies at a higher rate. In previous reports on quality evaluation systems and other things, the Committee on Education and Training has made it clear that more is to be done to enable informed choices to be made. I have debated this with the Minister for Higher Education on several occasions in the past, but so far we have not seen any government proposals to actually increase people's ability to make informed choices. I think it is an important part of giving people the opportunity to make these choices based on the information and facts that exist. The Government also highlights a more flexible education offering. It is absolutely an important part. In the case of teacher training, there has been an evaluation, or a pilot, where two out of eight teacher training courses failed in terms of quality. Other teacher training will be reviewed in the coming years. I'm looking forward to it. The most important thing for us is that education is of high quality. Our priority in all aspects of education is to strengthen quality, so that everyone, regardless of education, has the right conditions. If you have a broader perspective on higher education issues, I think that you should also enable profiling for the higher education institutions in the education system and make it easier for the higher education institutions to have stronger cooperation between each other to strengthen the education throughout the country.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1118	Madam President, I would like I thank Fredrik Christensson for this. I am pleased that we agree that it is quality that should determine who is allowed to conduct different training courses. With a new governance and resource system, I look forward to seeing that our higher education institutions and universities can profile themselves more to ensure high quality education. But I strongly oppose that we, from politics – government, ministry or parliament – should decide which educations are to be given at which universities, as proposed by Fredrik Christensson's bourgeois comrades. As far as providing good information is concerned, I mentioned in my speech that we are now actually investing funds in increasing information on precisely how to retrain to become a teacher if you have a different professional background or educational background. I therefore fully share this view. We are also taking concrete action. I have had a meeting with the UHR, i.e. the Swedish Council for Higher Education, which is responsible for how we can improve information to students or future students so that they can make informed choices so that the number of defections due to pure error choices can be reduced. They're working on it all the time. There is also a need for more direct information to those already working on retraining opportunities and that we can also offer this more flexible range of, for example, independent and online courses, and that this can be done across the country, so that we can ensure a good supply of the right skills wherever you live in the country.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1123	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to express my thanks to the Government, which is committed to the budget debate. Teacher training is a strategic issue for a country. There Sweden has some problems. We have problems with search pressure, we have problems with defection and we have problems with many signals showing that it is too low a tempo. Of course, some of these things are connected. A weak search pressure and a lack of prior knowledge can make it necessary to keep the pace down. This has a major impact on education itself, its quality and content, but also on the attractiveness of education. But it also has effects for the school, because those who now attend the teacher's school will be teachers in Swedish school for 40 years. It has an impact on society, because school is so central to social development.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1126	I would also like to ask a question about broader participation. Earlier I listened carefully to Thomas Strand, who is a good representative of the government. He was very unclear, or perhaps he was clear, when he said that the proposal for a wider participation was withdrawn. That's very good. But he also said that some other measures were being considered to meet the needs. I am very afraid that you will do the same thing again, i.e. commission the university to broaden participation in a way that means having to lower the quality.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1128	Madam President, I would like I thank Christer Nylander for the questions. We are doing a work on teacher training that we have been doing since we took office. This search has, as Thomas Strand said, decreased now, but it has also decreased widely in all higher education. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the labour market is extremely strong. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 14 years. But it's also because we have smaller high school pupils. That is why we will not be able to solve the problems of the shortage of teachers simply by educating people who come straight from high school, but we will have to open up more ways into the teaching profession. There's a lot of generalization around the defection. But it is in the subject teacher training for grades 7 to 9 that you have the big drop-out. Pre-school education has a higher pass rate than the average in the university. And the basic teacher program is about the same level. It works with different projects and businesses to get the tempo up. But the important thing is that we also contribute SEK 250 million a year to get more teacher-led time. I am concerned that Liberals' only answer to these questions is not measures to tackle the problems, but only that fewer teachers should be trained at fewer universities. I cannot understand how it will solve the problems of the lack of teachers. It is not even certain that it would lead to higher quality, because it is a long-term strategic work that is required, as Christer Nylander says. When it comes to broader participation, universities and higher education institutions are already working on these issues. What we are currently waiting for is the Steering and Resource Investigation, because with a better governance and resource system we can also strengthen the quality of both teaching and research.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1134	Madam President, I would like I perceive the Government's response as that a strategic approach is really needed to lift teacher education – to increase applications, to make sure that more people want to attend the courses, get higher admission points and get more people to carry out the courses. However, I did not understand that there is a strategic thinking or a strategic plan for this, and I would like to reiterate the question of what the government has the strategic idea of strengthening education. In the long term, there is a strong need not only to strengthen teacher training but also to ensure that we have the most skilled teachers in place in school. No, Liberals have quite a few suggestions for how to strengthen teacher education. We have proposals for admission requirements, and I believe that the government did so before it became a government. When the government was in opposition, they also had ideas about, for example, requirements for a certain minimum score in the university test to get into teacher training. We still stand for that. We think there should be more ways in, and we have a lot of concrete proposals there. We also have efforts on this in our draft budget. We are continuing to develop our school policy and our view of teacher education, all the time, because we believe that this is a key issue. It is central to school itself and to teacher education itself, but above all it is central to society as a whole. I noted that the Government said that colleges and universities are working with a broader participation. Should it be interpreted as meaning that the proposal made by the Government a few months ago was not really necessary? Was there a blow in the air, was it a mark or was there something in the matter that the Government wanted to change?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1139	Madam President, I would like Since the introduction of new teacher training, the search pressure has increased by 70 per cent. In terms of the proportion of qualified first-hand applicants, the figure also continues to rise, so something is good about the new teacher training. A major national evaluation is now being carried out, and, as I said earlier in the debate, I think that is the basis for what changes need to be made. On the other hand, there is a great deal of work going on; I mentioned some, but I would like to take this opportunity to mention again the experimental activities of training schools. The UKÄ interim report has shown that it is very successful. We also invest in research schools to get more researchers educated in teacher education, and we strengthen the practical research that will be good both for school development and for teacher education. However, we need to do even more to strengthen quality and above all strengthen the link between practice and theory. That is exactly what the School Commission has said – you do not want to see any major new teacher education reform, but you want us to continue working on this path. When it comes to eligibility for higher education and selection there it gets a little confused sometimes. I hope that the admission proposal we are going to present this spring will resolve some of the issues. However, the university test is not a proficiency test, but a selection test. We are now looking, among other things, at the fitness assessment attempt to see if there is something to be used, but we really need to take a holistic approach to access. Those who enter teacher training are qualified, and with that they will be able to complete higher education.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1143	Madam President, I would like I also have a question that touches on teacher education and more, and that concerns the content and the need for source criticism. Through digital development and social media, we are surrounded by day-to-day dissemination of information, and learning how to interpret the information has become increasingly important. When it was newspapers that dominated the flow of information, there was always someone responsible for the fact being checked, but in the online world we now live in, all the data is at risk of being perceived as equally worth. People choose opinions just as it suits their own context, and conspiracy theories become entrenched due to lack of source criticism and critical scrutiny. The Swedish National Agency for Education has carried out a review of this. What they say in their documents is that it is necessary to be able to review and critically assess information in order to safely use the Internet for knowledge acquisition, assimilate knowledge in a necessary way and participate in democracy. But it has also been studied in schools, and it has been seen that one third of high school students are not taught at all in source criticism. This is also linked to teacher training, and I wonder what the Minister for Higher Education thinks about this problem – or this challenge, if you like.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1147	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for a very precise question, Annika Eclund! As you say, this is one of the important knowledge and skills you need to bring with you both from teacher training and from school. It is also part of the degree goals that you should be able to both teach and self-criticise sources. This is becoming increasingly important. Then we know that one of the big problems we have in Swedish schools is the difference – that it does not look the same all over Sweden. Rather, what I feel is important is that all children and young people really get to meet both competent and qualified teachers, who have completed a teacher training of the highest quality and who are able to meet the goals that are so clearly set out in the School Act. It is also about having a teacher education of the highest quality that is able to achieve what is within the framework of the degree goals. However, we are not quite there yet, and we see that one of the most important things the government is now doing in the field of education is to ensure that we have a resource allocation system that also weighs against, for example, socio-economics in order to give more resources to those schools where it is most needed. We also need to ensure that we have the very best teachers where we have the greatest challenges, and therefore the fight for equivalence will be crucial for all children to be able to achieve the knowledge goals.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1150	Madam President, I would like We also have a media inquiry that believes that source criticism has become a crucial knowledge of society. It is about being able to identify bias and even pure lies, and here school, teachers and their skills play a key role. The State Media Council says that teacher education is of a very uneven quality when it comes to online knowledge, as the Minister himself said just now. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that teacher education's governance documents should be updated so that source criticism and critical scrutiny are increasingly important, so that we can help our students navigate in a completely new media landscape in the future. Is there anything that the government and the Minister for Higher Education could support?
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1152	Madam President, I would like As I have said in my previous speeches, there is a major national evaluation of the entire teacher education, and it will be one of the important bases we have to see what changes need to be made in both the degree goals and the policy documents needed for us to have a teacher education that is not only high but also uniform quality across the country. On the basis of the evaluation, I am therefore absolutely prepared to review the objectives of teacher training. At the same time, it should be remembered that this is already the most detailed education of all today. There may be reasons for it to be so, precisely on the basis of national equivalence. There needs to be constant updating of not least the goals of our important professional education based on how society changes, but also based on both evidence and scientific basis. There are many requests for what should be included in teacher training. When we talk about the autonomy of universities and colleges, I think it seems to be very much about campus but not so much about education. On the contrary, I have heard many here that they certainly know exactly what the teacher education should contain, while at the same time we are going to hand over more responsibility, for example, to the teachers at school and steer less politically there. Finally, I would like to urge you to remember that our colleges and universities have a great responsibility, but that they should also have great autonomy in designing education according to the social needs we have, while at the same time relying on evidence and scientific basis, and that our teachers and researchers and those responsible there have a great responsibility.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1156	Madam President, I would like It's been a long day, so I'll be brief. However, there are a few points I would like to make. I would like to start by thanking the ministers, both Helene Hellmark Knutsson and Anna Ekström, who have been here all day. It has been great to have you in this debate! When we gathered after the 2014 elections and had a new government in place that began to look at the challenges of its mission, it was a major challenge that early appeared, namely the lack of teachers. Three years later, many tens of thousands of teachers were missing from our schools. That is why the government immediately set up the national collection for the teaching profession, where teachers' professors and ministers have been able in peace and quiet with methodical accuracy to graze the challenge after challenge and where the proposals from the government have been about what has been asked out in schools. When we see the great lack of teachers, we must think again. That's why the government allocates funds for projects that create more pathways into the teaching profession. As we have heard during the day, for example, there may be more supplementary courses, modular courses to increase the competence of teachers who lack specific subject knowledge and common forms of validation. But there must be even more flexible and smart ways into the teaching profession. The government is also investing in more relevant summer courses, as we have heard. It will be possible to finish faster. These are relevant courses that speed up teacher training so that you get to work more quickly, of course with the maintenance of high quality. There are 2,000 new higher education places on summer courses next year. Eleven universities and higher education institutions are tasked in a first step with organising more courses in the summer, where teacher training should be given special priority. The government also re-prioritises money to strengthen the further training of teachers, the so-called VAL, and other particularly complementary educations, such as Teach for Sweden. Madam President, I would like As I have shown here, the government is investing very much in increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession, including through a major investment in increased teacher salaries. However, the best way to increase attractiveness is to ensure that all schools have a good working environment and a positive and warm climate where many people want to be. That is why leadership, both with principals and with local politicians, is extremely important. If we are to succeed in getting the teachers at school today to want to stay and also get more people to go there, we need many long-term measures. That is why the national collection for the teaching profession, which twists and turns the challenges and delivers proposals and decisions based on needs, is so important. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1168	Madam President, I would like This is another unnecessary announcement to the government. This report and committee initiative are merely a game for the galleries. The majority of the committee knows that we – all parties, government parties as opposition – agree that the police need simpler rules in order to be able to set up cameras in places exposed to crime. This was part of the second six-party agreement on terrorism which we, the parties of the Alliance and the government parties, supported in June of this year. What we also agreed on, which unfortunately was not put on paper, was that we should wait for the referral to the investigation into camera surveillance to be delivered shortly after the agreement was concluded so that the directives would land correctly if there was a need to proceed with a new investigation. We feared, as proved correct, that the ongoing investigation would not propose the change in terms of simplifying for the police that we wanted to carry out. But this has obviously been forgotten by the alliance parties. The referral response has been received, and yesterday the Government decided on the directives for an investigation on the basis that the authorisation requirement for camera surveillance should be removed and primarily replaced by a notification obligation. We should also be aware that today it is not difficult for the police to obtain permission to set up cameras. There's never been as much surveillance in crime-prone places as it is now. Nevertheless, we agree that we need to change the regulatory framework. Madam President, I would like The majority of the committee also sets in its committee initiative a deadline for the entry into force of a decision to remove the police permit requirements. But, Madam President, they know as well as we do that if the government is to comply with the demands of the government, this is not practicable. Even with a short investigation period and a short consultation procedure, the time is too short for this change to enter into force while other changes to camera surveillance based on EU data protection regulation are planned to enter into force, which is in May 2018. The investigation period is still short – this part of the assignment will be reported on August 15, 2018. Camera surveillance is a breach of personal integrity. Even if we agree that it is necessary to facilitate the work of the police, the investigator should have a reasonable chance to do a thorough job so that we have a good basis for future decisions.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1178	Madam President, I would like In fact, one can only regret the fact that we have to debate this issue in this House today. There are two reasons for this. One – which we should not forget when discussing this – is that we should regret that the need for camera surveillance has grown so strongly in recent years. The fact that we now agree in this House on the need for camera surveillance – that it is needed at crime scenes, in vulnerable areas, in dark places and in places that otherwise feel insecure to move at all – is really a failure on the part of society. We should keep that in mind. Privacy issues are important in this area. That is why it is also important that camera monitoring and relaxation of the existing regulatory framework should be carefully improved, so that it will last, not least for a judicial review in the future. At the same time – and this is the second reason to regret this debate – it is a pity and unnecessary that we have to discuss this when we in this House agree in principle. As far as I know, there is no party here that is against the police being given the same legal opportunity to set up cameras that individuals or companies will have with the new camera regulation. Even there, we all agree. The problem is that this takes time, especially when we are going to comply with the requirements of the Swedish constitution. I believe that, regardless of which parties would sit in a government, these parties in a government position would have to follow it. Otherwise, a KU notification would come directly, and you would risk simply failing. That is why the announcement by the opposition is strange, as it would not really be necessary because we are in agreement. Although it was not so long ago that you sat in Rosenbad and the Moderates owned the Ministry of Justice, you have suddenly forgotten that there is a preparation requirement – strange. Memory is short, and this despite the fact that there is now a party leader who talks about an adult way of conducting politics. It's hardly grown-up. That's opposition politics. Yes. But it is not a responsible policy. It is not a policy that clearly shows that it is prepared to take responsibility for the whole and take full responsibility for the legislation, because then it would respect that it takes its little time to prepare the matter. As the previous speaker mentioned, there was an oral agreement, which Beatrice Ask was involved in discussing in the terrorist talks last autumn, that we should wait for the referral. This led, among other things, to more authorities that were covered by the investigation directive that came and that the government decided yesterday. This isn't soaking or pulling a long bench. That is to effect what we have jointly agreed on. That is why I have to say that an announcement seems rather strange. But on the matter, we are in complete agreement: neither of us wants to slow this down. We want to implement it as soon as possible, but we want to comply with Sweden's constitutions.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1186	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. The insecurity is spreading over Sverig by now. The number of vulnerable areas is increasing and the violence between criminals is becoming more and more severe. Only this year have 38 people been killed in shootings. It must not become a new normal state in Sweden. The Alliance calls for this situation to be met with concrete measures. It is time for the police to have the resources, powers and tools to reverse developments. And yes, it is perhaps mainly about more police officers, and we agree within the Alliance that the number of police officers in Sweden must increase. Swedish police need more colleagues and higher salaries. However, during the present government, the number of police officers is falling. That's worrying. Madam President, I would like Today's debate is about the tools and powers of the police. As a complement to more police officers, more surveillance cameras are also needed. We believe that surveillance cameras in crime-prone locations increase security. For those who do not believe in the effect of more surveillance cameras, which at least in the Committee on Justice has been questioned by the Left, I would recommend a visit to the Järva area, where you can talk to residents and traders about how they view the situation. I can assure you that most of the people you meet at the time believe that the security cameras are very welcome. They are seen as proof that the rule of law is present and functioning. But note that it has not been easy for the police to get this in place! Madam President, I would like The government's forthcoming proposal for a new camera surveillance team will not make it easier for the police to monitor in crime-prone locations. That is why the proposal has also been met with justified criticism. At the initiative of the Alliance, the Committee on Justice now recommends that the Parliament of Parliament address an announcement to the government. The committee calls for the government to replace today's permit requirement with a notification requirement for police surveillance by the time the new law comes into force, in May next year. It's all about political will. If the political will had been in the hands of the government, this could have been in place. It is argued that this could not be done. With all due respect, this committee too has dealt with other issues with even a much narrower timeframe than that. Reference is made to the fact that there has been a broad agreement on terrorism, and that is correct. In it we agreed that this must be done, but we Moderates were very clear in those talks that we will not take this agreement as an opportunity for the government to delay this issue and not act. On the contrary, we were clear that we expected the government to act. As soon as the investigation came, the Minister of Justice said that a proposal would now be made to replace a permit requirement with a notification requirement. Despite the fact that we are now discussing this committee initiative in this House today, the government yesterday chose to set up an investigation to submit a first report in August 2018. Madam President, I would like It's eight months away. The government is deliberately defying the will of the Riksdag. For this, the Moderates have today notified Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson. Established constitutional practice for how the government handles announcements suggests that the government, knowing this committee initiative, should have waited for the Riksdag's decision. This is a betrayal, we think, on the basis of the situation that we now have in many vulnerable areas. The police want this in place now. There is a majority in favour of it in this House, and that is an opportunity that a government should also take. In concrete terms, this requires that the police no longer have to wait for permission to set up cameras in places exposed to crime. Instead, the police should only report that a camera is being set up. Of course, this should be followed up by a supervisory authority and also evaluated. Legal certainty and protection of privacy must of course be ensured. What we are proposing, Madam President, is already a reality in our Nordic neighbours, and the Alliance sees no obstacle to Sweden's being able to have such an order. The development of crime and increased insecurity are probably the biggest failure of this government. Abolishing the permit requirement for police camera surveillance would be a step towards greater security throughout Sweden. This debate is yet another proof that Sweden needs an alliance government that seriously regains the rule of law over our vulnerable areas and breaks organised crime. The Alliance's statement is clear: we are prepared to take responsibility. We intend to act. We will ensure that the security of people in our country is increased.
i-51a09335ed8e043e-1201	Madam President, I would like The reason for this debate is, as you know, that the Swedish Democrats and the Alliance have agreed on a committee initiative to remove the requirement for the police to seek permission for camera surveillance. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have been asking for for a long time. For my part, I have in the procedural motion reports where issues of camera surveillance have always been dealt with lifted up and urged the Swedish Democrats to make it easier for the police to use camera surveillance. In the 2015 report on procedural law, only the Swedish Democrats exercised on the increased use of camera surveillance in public places and in school buildings. In the 2016 report on procedural law, both the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates exercised on camera surveillance. Our exercise also then stressed simplified possibilities for police to use camera surveillance in public places and in residential areas while Moderates' exercise more limited stressed opportunities for store owners to use camera surveillance. Now, most recently in the 2017 procedural report, the Alliance moved closer to SD's line, and we were able to agree jointly to make it easier to use camera surveillance in precisely crime-prone locations. In that debate, however, I stressed that the Swedish Democrats wanted to go further. In the debate last spring, I described our approach to our announcement: in the announcement, we believe that it should be easier for the police to use camera surveillance in the vulnerable places of crime, and that is a good thing. But the Swedish Democrats want more. We also believe that the police should be able to use camera surveillance more easily than today for more places and even when these places have not been particularly exposed to crime. I continued: The announcement is a bit along the way and provides a guarantee for the continued work of making camera surveillance a more natural part of the crime prevention and investigation work. We welcome developments, even if we want much more. And finally: According to the police, experience from cities affected by terrorist attacks also shows that camera surveillance has been crucial to detect and incapacitate perpetrators and prevent more attacks. The Swedish democrats' ambition level did not win a voice in the Riksdag at that time. Madam President, I would like That debate was held on 6 April this spring, the day before the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. As a consequence of the terrorist attack, the government invited the Alliance for talks to discuss new political proposals. On 7 June, you presented, among other things, a proposal for further simplification of police use of camera surveillance, that is, precisely what you voted against the day before the terrorist attack. Of course, we would have liked the line that we have been advocating for so many years to have become a reality considerably earlier. Although the ambition of Sweden's democrats for the use of camera surveillance might not have made a difference in the terrorist attack on 7 April, it is regrettable that a terrorist attack is needed in order for the rest of you to arrive at the necessary conclusions. Madam President, I would like Although the government now says it wants to make it easier for the police to use camera surveillance and, in substance, shares the committee's proposal for a decision, we disagree about when and how it should happen. By opening up the possibility in committee to make the change in connection with the new camera watch agenda, which will enter into force on 25 May next year, it provides greater certainty that the change will actually take place than if further investigation were to postpone the matter until after the next election. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, the police's increased opportunities to use camera surveillance is something that we have worked for annually throughout the entire term of office. There may be some respect that the government, whose position on the matter has recently changed, wants to take the matter in the long term through additional preparations. Fortunately, however, we do not have to wait for the government. The Swedish Democrats are keen to get this change in place, so, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
