i-14405a77741c0591-3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I intend to press for the government to publicly protest against the persecution and imprisonment of trade union activists by the Iranian regime and to demand the release of all trade union and political prisoners. Furthermore, Amineh Kakabaveh wonders whether I intend to work for the government to convey to the Iranian regime that continued persecution and imprisonment that violate the ILO Charter will have consequences for the trade and investment agreements concluded between Sweden and Iran. The human rights situation in Iran is very serious, including as regards trade union rights. The treatment to which trade union representatives are subjected, and which Amineh Kakabaveh gives examples of, is alarming. This is something we clearly point out in the reports on human rights that were updated in April this year. The government clearly rejects human rights violations. Human rights issues have a central place in our relations with Iran and are always addressed in our political meetings with Iranian representatives. We are driving the UN and the EU, including by supporting the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran, Asma Jahangir. I met Asma Jahangir myself this summer when she visited Sweden to discuss her mission and the continuing serious human rights situation in Iran. The government will continue to pursue the human rights issue with Iran, both bilaterally and multilaterally. That commitment is reflected in the agreements we make with Iran. The joint statement on political consultations signed in June 2016 by the Iranian Foreign Minister, Javad Zarif and I, includes human rights as a special part. During the Prime Minister's visit to Iran in February this year, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed on cooperation to strengthen women's labour force participation and entrepreneurship. The agreement provides a basis for continued exchanges with Iran in this area. Trade union rights have a special place in our work. Therefore, a senior representative of IF Metall was included in the Prime Minister's delegation. The issue of trade union rights, including individual cases, was also raised during the visit, including with President Hassan Rohani. The government supports the important work of civil society, including trade union organisations, to pay attention to human rights violations in Iran. We have an active dialogue with trade unions and other civil society organisations and seek their views on Iran. The Prime Minister therefore had a meeting with representatives from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch on the human rights situation in the country. The government will continue with these important dialogues. We will also continue to draw Iran's attention to human rights violations, make the necessary bilateral and multilateral contacts and work to strengthen the situation of women in the country. It is crucial for the government that all our contacts with Iran carry a message about human rights.
i-14405a77741c0591-10	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. The interpellation that I have written is of course about the trade union activists, such as Reza Shahabi, who after five years in prison was suddenly sentenced to another year in prison. He and many others have been transferred from Evin Prison to Rajai Shahr Prison without medicine and clean water and without knowing why. Yesterday, after 50 days, he broke his hunger strike because of the international pressure to release him. I hope that Sweden and the Foreign Minister in multilateral agreements with Iran and other countries will stress the importance of workers' trade union rights. They have the right to receive wages and to organise themselves, but that is a problem in Iran. The answer is well written, but I do not believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs even believes what is said in this House. The critical dialogue has been conducted for over 30 years now, but it has been ineffective. Iran listens in the room where you sit and then does exactly what they want. They do not do what Sweden says. They simply have other ambitions in an Islamic capitalist dictatorship where gender apartheid, oppression of Kurds, minorities and workers apply. All democratically-minded people who raise their voices are imprisoned and executed in cranes. In particular, many Kurds have been executed. Ahmed Shaheed, whom we invited to the Swedish Parliament, has written a thousand pages long report on human rights violations. But nothing has happened. The Foreign Minister has mentioned Rohani, but Rohani and the entire Iran system are in the hands of the Security Council. It is Ali Khamenei who makes decisions and not others. They're just an alibi for the system. Dialogue is good. Trade is also good as long as it promotes human rights and affects. Agreements on women are good, but it is not entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship that is the problem. The problem in Iran is that the laws discriminate against half the population. The laws do not allow women, even if they have money, to enjoy the same rights as men. The only tools are not business and money. The tools should simply be the political pressure for women's, workers' and everyone's right to freedom. The Minister for Foreign Affairs does not mention the researcher Ahmadreza Djalali, who has a Swedish residence and work permit in Sweden. He and his wife, Vida, with two children, are fighting for his release. They appeal to us Members and the entire Swedish people for support. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will mention how this work is progressing.
i-14405a77741c0591-16	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that the human rights situation in Iran is very serious. Of course, we also share Amineh Kakabaveh's impatience. We think it takes far too long to register progress, because minorities, oppositionists and trade union representatives are at great risk. The government has been clear on these issues. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' report on human rights in Iran, which we published in April of this year, describes in detail the serious shortcomings we see. And in our dialogue with Iran we are always pointing out these shortcomings. I have also explained our work many times in this House. In order to address these shortcomings, we need to have a dialogue. The government's starting point is that it is through exchange and commitment combined with clear and sharp messages that we can contribute to positive development. The fact that progress can eventually also be made shows, for example, the news we heard the day before yesterday that women in Saudi Arabia are finally allowed to drive. We shall also engage in dialogue with countries with which we do not agree in all respects. It is against this background that engagement with Iran should be seen. With regard to trade and investment agreements, which Amineh Kakabaveh also asked about, it is important to emphasise that Sweden does not conclude its own trade agreements, but it does so at EU level on behalf of the Member States. There is no trade agreement between the EU and Iran. Amineh Kakabaveh may refer to the agreements signed during the Prime Minister's visit in February. This applies to cooperation agreements in specific areas. They express an ambition to extend cooperation between Swedish and Iranian authorities in transport, technology and innovation, IT, higher education and research. It is also a question of increasing the influence of women. These cooperation agreements will now be followed up and implemented by the parties responsible for each area. As regards the cooperation agreement on women's influence, the Swedish Institute is primarily the authority concerned. It is positive that we have been able to sign such a document despite the fact that we are very far removed from Iran on this issue. It shows that we can also achieve results by presenting our basic starting points in dialogue. Of course, the same principles apply when these agreements are to be implemented. The government's policy, including human rights, is part of all issues and will also permeate this type of specific agreement. This is expressed in the joint statement signed by Secretary of State Zarif and I. It describes the broader relationship between Sweden and Iran, which includes human rights as a particular issue in line with the government's priorities. I am the first to say that I share the impatience of the situation that we are still seeing. Of course, we want it to go much faster and be able to register progress, particularly in the field of human rights defence.
i-14405a77741c0591-25	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. As soon as Iran agreed to US and UN demands on nuclear technology, all EU countries and their foreign ministers were suddenly in line to do business in Iran. The cooperation agreements with Iran are both comprehensive and important. I have nothing against having cooperation agreements or trade with another country as long as it benefits the population and affects the development of democracy. We are talking about research cooperation with Iran, but researcher Ahmadreza Djalali has been in prison for almost 18 months since he is a disaster researcher from Sweden. Iran totally ignores what Sweden and the EU are saying. It is only illusions to have expectations of the Islamic fundamentalist regime. They won't do what we want. They want to consolidate their own power and have more opportunities to oppress their own people. These are reprisals against dissidents, Kurds, women, non-Muslims and other minorities. There's intolerance, and people are going to jail. Iran has signed ILO conventions but punishes workers with whips, including 17 miners for demanding their rights. An activist, Mahmoud Beheshi, has been in prison for 14 years and another, Esmail Abdi, for 6 years because they have fought for children to have the right to teachers and teachers to be entitled to pay. Unfortunately, this is the case in Iran, about which we have illusions. I don't, but I think a lot of people do. Many years ago, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lena Hjelm-Wallén-Wallén explicitly said that a dialogue with Iran is ineffective. She admitted it. We're in the same position now. I agree with Mrs Margot that progress for women in Saudi Arabia, for example, is important. But who made Saudi Arabia a power factor? Yes, the United It gives Saudi Arabia the opportunity to chair human rights issues. They get power in different ways, but we should mark much harder against a country where apartheid applies. It does not matter whether it is Iran, Saudi Arabia or Turkey. We need to be even clearer. I believe that you, Margot, believe in this struggle, and I hope that you will do more and politically mark even more against these repressive regimes.
i-14405a77741c0591-34	Mr President, I would like to What's the alternative? We see what long-term isolation of Iran contributes to. It benefits the conservative groups in Iranian society, because they protect their power and portray the outside world as hostile, which makes the situation even worse. Other forces in Iranian society welcome an increased international exchange, and they see that they are supported by the outside world. Even if we are impatient and feel that things are moving too slowly, it is by opening up a society that is changing in the long term, not by isolation. It would only give the ultraconservative forces more strength and power. It does not help to open up society. It is true, as Amineh Kakabaveh says, that the possibility of trade union organisation is extremely lacking. Independent trade unions are not allowed, and many trade union and labour law activists are still in prison. We discuss this in meetings, such as those held by the Prime Minister and in the talks held by the Trade Minister with the Industry and Trade Ministers. As I said, IF Metall was represented in the delegation and took part in round-table discussions on female participation and influence. That's how you get new impressions, influences and examples. The participation of IF Metall was a concrete marker for which Sweden believes that independent trade unions have a central role. We believe that it is only possible to influence developments meaningfully through engagement, and trade issues will become more important when international sanctions are largely lifted. Trade and international exchange in general, we believe, contribute to a positive development in the world. That also applies to Iran. Increased exposure of Iranian society to the outside world contributes to greater transparency. Many Swedish companies are prominent in corporate social responsibility, i.e. sustainability and good relations between management and employees. They become examples, and an increased presence of Sweden and Swedish industry creates relationships and opportunities to spread Swedish values on these issues. The government assumes that Swedish companies act as good employers who contribute to the local community in accordance with the action plan for entrepreneurship and human rights that we have. Through the EU and bilaterally, we regularly address individual cases of human rights violations. Through our embassy in Tehran, we also participate in joint EU démarches to the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the judiciary. That is also how we react when we have individual cases. Individual cases that we and the EU regard as particularly urgent include those sentenced to death. In this way, we have also raised several cases involving trade union representatives who have been imprisoned for their activities. Here we always choose what we judge best for the benefit of the issue and the individual case.
i-14405a77741c0591-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I agree that the isolation of a country does not benefit its population. We know this, and in many respects it is borne out by the fact that the Iranian regime blames abroad when its own people end up in poverty and misery. The Iranian people, especially in the Kurdish parts, are already living in poverty. A week ago, for example, many workers, called Kolber, were shot at in Persian and Kurdish. They have no job but to carry on their own shoulders food and clothing that they sell on the Iranian-Iraq border. They were shot at. We believe that trade does not benefit the very poorest and vulnerable areas. It is constantly said that trade brings increased prosperity and democracy. Yes, partly in many countries, but not in those dictatorship countries where there is not always a shortage of resources but a lack of democracy. The Iranian and Kurdish people in five cities went out a week and a half ago and protested against the executions. Iranian women are fighting forced ridicule and apartheid. Workers fight for their rights despite 6 or 14 years of imprisonment. I hope that Sweden and the Foreign Minister are pushing that there should be a strict code of conduct that applies to companies, agreements or cooperation with Iran and other dictatorships. We must ensure that this exists.
i-14405a77741c0591-50	Mr President, Amineh Kakabaveh. I agree with a lot of what you say, but unfortunately I believe that isolation would betray all those who represent the opposition and who are fighting for their rights. I think the worst thing that can happen is if we say we're not going to do anything about the country. There is a commitment – a critical commitment – such as the nuclear agreement. It means reducing a direct threat from the development of nuclear weapons and offering opportunities: lifting certain sanctions, dealing with the country, opening up and establishing dialogue and contact, but maintaining sanctions against people who violate human rights. This is important. That means we can go there and talk directly to our counterparts. Then, as I said in my previous speech, we assume that our Swedish companies that are active will adhere to the action plan that exists for sustainable enterprise and respect for democracy and human rights. This is important. We believe that opening up the country will improve the economy and relations with the outside world. Then we have more opportunities to strengthen the good forces in the country, express our criticism and slowly but surely influence in the right direction. What we want most is to fully respect trade union and human rights and ensure that women have their rightful place in Iranian society.
i-14405a77741c0591-54	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I and the government intend to take measures to secure persons with protected identity and what measures the government intends to take to ensure that persons with protected identity are guaranteed their security. An important part of the protection of persons at risk of violence, threats and harassment is the protection of their personal data in, among other things, population records. Today, protection measures consist of a classification mark in the population register database, retention or fictitious personal data. The purpose of the measures is to prevent the threatened or persecuted person from being found using the data recorded. The government considers it important to strengthen the protection of threatened and persecuted persons. The report "Enhanced security for threatened and persecuted persons" was handed over in June 2015 and has been referred. The report contains several proposals aimed at strengthening the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons. In order to strengthen the protection of personal data, the investigation proposes, among other things, to replace retention with a new and better protection institution called protected public records. The Government is further working on the proposals in the report with the ambition that a proposal can be submitted to the Riksdag in spring 2018.
i-14405a77741c0591-58	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister and I had an interpellation debate on this subject during the previous Parliamentary Session. The Minister of Finance then concluded his speech by asking me to flay her in the neck so that proposals to strengthen measures for threatened and persecuted persons come to Parliament. That is what I intend to do today. After we had the interpellation debate, during the summer the cyber scandal that has further direct bearing on protected data came, and now people who are living in anxiety and uncertainty feel an even greater uncertainty about what information about those who have leaked. This means that proposals are needed even more quickly now – we cannot wait any longer. In 2016, 14,390 people lived with protected personal data. Of them, about 8,500 were women. People living with protected identity have an incredibly vulnerable situation, especially if they have protected identity or personal data because they are exposed to threats or violence in some way. There are also people who, because of their profession, must have protected identity and personal data. So it has been obtained for other reasons. The Alliance government took several initiatives to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons, including in July 2014 when a number of legislative changes were introduced on closer cooperation between authorities on, inter alia, retention and enhanced protection of confidentiality in certain cases. It is often read, almost daily, about cases where it has leaked and where the protection of the person no longer exists because it has opened up between the authorities and lost that it is protected personal data. These can also be disclosed in other ways. But the most important thing is that you have a good, safe government action between authorities so that people can feel safe at least in that part. They live all the time with the uncertainty that someone should figure out where and who they are. I think it is about solidarity. The red-green parties often talk about solidarity with the weak in society, and here it really is a weak, vulnerable group that needs its cause strengthened legally in every way possible. Detention may be granted for a maximum period of three years at a time. The proposal that the Minister says is to come has a clarification and an improved measure, which I look forward to. However, only persons over the age of 18 can be detained, and this also raises a number of questions. Hopefully, the government will come forward with something soon and look at this too so that children are also protected in the same way. Having fictitious personal data is a decision you make yourself, and it gives you very limited contact with family and friends. This is the prerequisite for a fictitious personal data to have any effect at all. It is truly terrible to have to opt out of contact with one's loved ones in such a vulnerable situation. In my profession as a sociologist, I have met many people who live with this constant threat and who, moreover, do not feel safe when it comes to leaking information from the authorities. This is a very important issue, and I very much hope that the Government's proposal will come soon.
i-14405a77741c0591-67	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp raises a very important issue. I am pleased with the commitment that exists in Parliament's Chamber to strengthening the protection of people who live under some kind of threat. The investigation that has been carried out, which received a great deal of feedback during the consultation round, is also gratifying. We have now come so far in the preparatory work that I can say that my assessment is that we can put forward a proposal in the spring so that we can have stronger legislation in place. I'm sure we can both enjoy it. The government is also working widely to strengthen women's protection and against crime in various ways. During our term of office, we have developed a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, including honour-related violence. We have had a proposal for electronic monitoring and a restraining order for referrals, and we are now looking at the referral points and the possibilities for moving forward with this proposal. We have also stepped up support for women's shelters – it is quite extensive – and we have made a special effort in the last budget to combat honour-related violence. It is, of course, important that we work actively both to protect those people who need protection and to prevent people from entering a situation where they need a protected identity in different ways. Of course, I think it is very good that we have come so far in the preparation work that we now believe that we will be able to have a product ready to put on Parliament's table in spring.
i-14405a77741c0591-72	Mr President, I would like to I am also pleased that we have a consensus on the need for this to come forward quickly. It is therefore so surprising that, when today's government representatives were in opposition, an announcement was made on this particular issue. The alliance government then set up the investigation that is now the basis for the bill that we hope will be presented very soon. So there have been many tours in this matter for the most vulnerable in society, and nothing has yet happened. The IT scandal that occurred this summer further affects these people, and they are now living in uncertainty. I do not really know what the Minister for Finance can say to these people, because you do not know what has leaked and to whom. There are also many people who have protected addresses and identities because of their position or professional role and not because they have lived in a violent relationship. The persons with protected identities and those with different types of personal protection and close relatives have had another concern to bear. They do not know when they will know if their information has been disclosed. We in the Alliance have been on a lot on this issue. It is important for us to stand up for those who are as vulnerable in society as these people are. However, there are far too many examples of disclosure. In the previous interpellation debate as the Minister for Finance and I had mentioned examples of children being included in the school catalogue with their identity. It was in a Skåne municipality, and the school catalogue was distributed to 1,300 people. Then the damage was already done. As of May 1, 2018, there will be a new law – a Data Protection Regulation. There are consultative bodies which believe that special legislation should be in place specifically for the protection of individuals and personal data in the case of pupils, since many pupils live in a vulnerable situation. Several times it has become wrong precisely when it comes to schools' handling of protected personal data, and it has become known to the public where these children are located. The investigation that produced the new General Data Protection Regulation considered that there is no need for a special law for schools in this area. However, the Swedish Data Protection Authority believes that this should exist. The General Data Protection Regulation does not cover everything. Therefore, a separate law would be an important support for each school in terms of how to handle this sensitive data. The Swedish Data Protection Authority writes in its referral that there are difficult boundaries between the student's integrity and the school's mission. That is exactly the problem with protection all the time – the integrity and protection that people need. I very much hope that we will soon see legislation in place, so that these people, in their great concern, can feel somewhat more secure. Concerns about being persecuted or feeling persecuted and having a threat to them will unfortunately live with anyway. But then society must be able to do everything possible to protect these people.
i-14405a77741c0591-81	Mr President, I would like to The example highlighted by Lotta Finstorp is, of course, totally unacceptable, so that a child has been pictured with his name in a school catalogue and that it has then been distributed to many people. It shows how important it is that there is a high level of awareness in society about how to deal with this type of person living with a protected identity. I'm sure that's where you can discuss what's the right way to go. It is clear to me that there is a need for more knowledge of this so that people do not run the risk of getting into such a situation. If it should then be done through a law or otherwise, I leave it unsaid. But, of course, it is extremely important to me that no one should have to be exposed to such a risk. In the same way, of course, people should not end up between the chairs and between the authorities. The proposal that I hope we will be able to put on Parliament's table this spring will solve some of these problems but certainly not all of them. There is certainly more here that we will have to continue working on to ensure that those who have protected identity should not risk having their identity revealed. This is particularly true of the problem raised by Lotta Finstorp in relation to our schools. I am not sure that this will be fully resolved with this legislative change, but it is very possible that we need to look further at just how our pupils in schools will be dealt with in the future.
i-14405a77741c0591-83	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for an urgent debate. I guess I'll just have to keep breathing the minister's neck so that something happens, as the minister in the previous interpellation debate said I would do. There are expectations that this must happen for the people who live with this concern. The Minister also mentioned that the knowledge gaps are, of course, within various public authorities in terms of how to handle protected personal data. I do not know if you read any points on the socio-economic programme about this. So there are problems with social services when it comes to how to do things. I'm sure there are problems with other authorities, too. I will continue to monitor the issue, and I very much hope that there will be a proposal to Parliament as soon as possible.
i-14405a77741c0591-86	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I appreciate Lotta Finstorp acting as a blowtorch and, of course, I hope she continues to do so. It is important that there is a broad political commitment to these issues. I appreciate that there is such a commitment across the block. In Sweden, of course, all people should be able to feel safe, even if they live under protected identity. It is, of course, the task of the authorities, and ultimately of the government and parliament, to ensure this. It is a good thing that we can work together.
i-14405a77741c0591-88	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to include horseback riding in the health care allowance. The scope of the wellness benefit is something that engages many, and as I have answered on several occasions, the question will be the subject of consideration during the term of office. There are many aspects, such as equality and equality, that need to be analysed. It is also a question of finding a balance in tax legislation between what may be justified for the employer to deduct in order for the staff to stay healthy and what is personal living costs. Analysis work has already begun in the Ministry of Finance. I do not want to anticipate this work, nor the analysis of what other bordering issues would involve a change in the health care benefit. In this context, I note that preventive treatment and rehabilitation – for example in the form of so-called horse-supported therapy – is already tax-free for the employee today.
i-14405a77741c0591-91	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The health-promoting effects and fitness of horseback riding as preventive wellness are well documented, and horseback riding is actually one of the biggest sports for people with disabilities. Riding is training for both body and soul, and the association with the horse also contributes to well-being. You can make deductions for massage, qigong, strength training and rugby. From hard physical training to relaxation exercises are subsidised with the current regulations. However, an activity such as riding for some reason does not fit into the Swedish Tax Agency's definition of exercise and wellness. The employer has the possibility to set aside a certain amount that the employee may use for physical activity, and it would be reasonable for the physical activity to be entirely optional. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to horseback riding, it is not the equipment or the horse that should be included in the personnel care allowance, but the possibility to rent a horse or take a riding lesson. It's about the same thing as renting a tennis court or playing floorball in a floorball hall you've rented. Many of the sports included in the wellness allowance are also sports that require expensive equipment. This applies, for example, to hockey, which is part of the wellness allowance. When it comes to riding, in most cases you can borrow most of the equipment you need; possibly you need to buy a pair of riding boots or riding shoes, which is roughly in parity with a pair of jogging shoes in terms of price range. That is why it is strange to have a discussion about bordering on personal living costs and that horseback riding should have some kind of special status in this respect. I would like to hear an explanation of how it might be reasonable to exclude equestrian sport precisely from the definition of personal living costs. The reason I put the question to the Minister for Finance– I have tried to do so in a previous interpellation debate, but then I did not get any answers– are they accelerating the sick leave rates, not least when it comes to mental illness. The government has made it clear that it feels that it is reasonable for employers to take greater responsibility. Now that we know that horseback riding affects the mental well-being very much, it is strange that it should be excluded from the wellness benefit. In many cases, horseback riding also means that people come into the forest and land, which also increases well-being and reduces stress. In fact, the Social Democrats promised in the election movement to ensure that horseback riding is covered by the health allowance, and now it is only this parliamentary year left. When's the change coming?
i-14405a77741c0591-97	Mr President, I would like to I will start with a few comments. What is personal costs and what can be deducted as a health care benefit is, as it were, general in the tax legislation, where personal living costs cannot be deducted when the income is acquired. It is not just a matter of horseback riding, it is a general principle of tax law. Anyone who then decides what is personal living costs and not, therefore, interprets the legislation, is not the government but the Tax Agency. It is the IRS that has made this assessment. Why you count hockey as something that is not a per sonal cost of living, but, on the other hand, horseback riding, is not a question to be asked to me but to the one who applies the legislation, and that is the Swedish Tax Agency. On the other hand, we have been clear that we will be reviewing the issue during the parliamentary term to see whether there is something in the legislation that should be changed in order, for example, to include horseback riding in the application of the legislation that then takes place. At the same time, it leads to a variety of demarcation problems and, of course, needs careful analysis. Just as Maria Stockhaus says, horse riding and association is something that has very good health effects. For not least many young girls who feel bad, horseback riding and equestrian sports are something that can really be a breathing break and a breath pick-up in an otherwise very demanding everyday life. Here is horseback riding, just as Maria Stockhaus says, a very big sport. Many people benefit greatly from horseback riding and horseback riding. This is not only true in our big cities; equestrian sport is also an important job-creating activity throughout the country. Equestrian sport one and equestrian sport one is thus something that is of great benefit and joy around Sweden, and there are of course good reasons to support it in many different ways. As I said, preparations are under way, but why you make the assessment that horseback riding can be a personal cost of living but not ice hockey is a question that should be addressed to the Swedish Tax Agency.
i-14405a77741c0591-104	Mr President, I would like to I think it is precisely this equestrian federation and those who are involved in equestrian sport wonder a little bit: that the Minister of Finance can speak so extremely well about all the positive effects of horseback riding and at the same time have had three years to make a, in fact quite marginal, change in the legislation on health care deductions to ensure that one has the opportunity to deduct for horseback riding. There are large spaces for an employer to offer different wellness options, and it is extremely difficult to understand why certain alternatives are excluded. It is well horseback riding and golf that has been raised in these contexts. The main thing must somewhere be that people move. Strength training and football are included, and there is also laughter gymnasium, choral singing in the workplace, salt room, Feldenkrais pedagogy, guitar lessons, reflexology and herbal baths. Employers can deduct for all kinds of health care where it is in fact doubtful whether there is a scientific basis for the activity to promote well-being, while horseback riding, which actually has good effects on both physical and mental health, is not involved. It is incomprehensible that you do not want to make that change. The government is now presenting a budget which, by many experts, has been classified as the fattest election pig budget for a very long time, and it is characterised by an expression that not only I but also many journalists use, that is, everything for everyone. Why, then, has it not been ensured that the elections were held and arranged so that the horseback riding can be included in the health allowance?
i-14405a77741c0591-108	Mr President, I would like to Here, of course, it is important to be careful and ensure that unwanted legislative gaps are not opened, thus draining tax revenue in the way that happened not least during the time when the Moderates led the Ministry of Finance. If we are talking about electoral pig budgets, I would like to point out that this government has reversed the deficit of 60 billion left by the Moderates in its last year. In 2014, the tax was reduced by means of borrowed money. The entire Swedish people were in debt to borrow for tax cuts – mostly for those who earn the most. We, on the other hand, have a surplus of 80 billion next year and use it responsibly. On the one hand, we are paying off public debt, which is now the lowest since 1977, and on the other hand we are carrying out important reforms. Why don't we save all 80 billion? That is because there are important reforms to be addressed. However, even with the reforms we are implementing, we have a surplus of almost 1% of GDP – 40 billion. At the same time, of course, we must invest. Many parents are concerned that children do not learn enough in school, and we need to invest much more in school. We know that police investigations are being piled up, and that is why we need to ensure that the police have enough resources to keep rape reports from being piled up. Of course, we must also ensure that our defences are strengthened. This is a responsible government that not only pays off on public debt but also ensures that important reforms are implemented. Maria Stockhaus says that we have had a long time to look at this issue – three years. I can only note that the Moderates sat at the Ministry of Finance for eight years without doing anything about the equestrian sport. So it is obviously not quite as simple as it might sound in opposition.
i-14405a77741c0591-112	Mr President, I would like to Now we may not have a debate on the impact of economic activity on the economy, but there are very few experts who believe that it is this government's merit that the economy looks like it does. Rather, there is much criticism for gasing as much as is done in the economic boom, which could have serious consequences, for example, for the possibility of investing in welfare in the longer term. There is another aspect that I would like to highlight in my last speech on the issue of riding and health care deductions. This is a government that calls itself a feminist government. Riding is actually a sport dominated by girls and women in terms of practitioners. I wish there were more guys. My son rides, and I'm very happy about it. I think more guys would feel good riding. In fact, however, women ride to a greater extent than men. This is a feminist government, and nothing has been done about the possibility of health benefits for horseback riding. My last question is: to so flagrantly disadvantage a sport that is dominated by women, how does the Minister for Finance think it rhymes with being a feminist government?
i-14405a77741c0591-115	Mr President, I would like to If it were the case that the government had made a decision that all of them would receive health care deductions, but I would certainly understand a possible criticism of this. But now it is the Swedish Tax Agency that applies the legislation. However, the government is now looking at the possibilities for making changes to the legislation. Now we were not going to talk about prosperity and the budget, but it was actually Maria Stockhaus who brought it up. I would remind Maria Stockhaus that yesterday the government received credit for its fiscal policy from two international institutions, both the IMF, which believes that the government is pursuing a well-balanced policy, and the European Commission, which is visiting Sweden today. There is broad international support here for this government pursuing a responsible economic policy, and that is something that the Swedish people also seem to appreciate.
