i-9749646c4cf8d092-1	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have set ourselves the goal of halving the job gap between native and foreign born by 2025 and are putting forward concrete proposals to achieve this, including more simple jobs such as entry jobs and increased driving forces for work. In this situation, the government is putting in place a budget that contributes to higher dependency on benefits, fewer jobs and greater exclusion. How does the Prime Minister think that such a policy should lower the thresholds for new arrivals into the labour market?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-3	Mr President, I would like to The job gap should, of course, be closed. I hate unemployment for one simple reason: I know how limiting it is for individuals' opportunities to develop in life. That is why we need a comprehensive employment policy. Firstly, public finances must be orderly. It provides long-term sustainability and stability. That is why we have now turned a large deficit into a substantial surplus. Secondly, there must be a strong industrial policy that makes business and employers demand labour. That's exactly what we're working on now. There are now 100,000 jobs that are not filled because there are not enough skilled workers. But there are 100,000 jobs today. We have rarely had as high a demand for labour as we have today. Employment is now increasing, and unemployment is now falling – also among the foreign-born, and that is a good thing. But much more is needed, because we still have too many people coming to Sweden – especially among those who are newcomers – who need to get into work. A group of the new arrivals are academics. They have good education – they are doctors, teachers, engineers and so on. They must, of course, enter their respective occupations. Others who come here are welders, truck drivers or other professions. They should also contribute fairly quickly. It is therefore a good thing that the parties have now begun to negotiate how those people should get in as quickly as possible. Then we also have a group that has too little experience and too little education. These people should also enter the labour market, but they should enter the labour market in such a way that they can actually live on their wages. It can be anything from clearing sly to clearing beaches and cleaning our streets and squares. There are many work-related tasks they can perform, but we will ensure that they can live on their wages. It's the Swedish model.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-10	Mr President, I would like to I'm from Malmö. It is not exactly an exemplary example of this government's policy in relation to the statistics on foreign-borns who are alienated. Integration in this country must work, and strong reforms are needed to break the development that is taking place under the current government and that risks tearing Sweden apart. We need to pursue a policy that leads both to education and better matching and to more simple jobs because so many of those who have come here – it is almost half of the new arrivals that the Prime Minister himself talks about – have a short education. The government has tried a series of – failed – minor measures as long as it has ruled, since 2014. The latest in the line is emergency work, which has proven to go to highly educated. How will Stefan Löfven create more simple jobs for the group we are actually talking about in this debate?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-14	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, in terms of integration: during your eight years, unemployment increased among those who came from outside Sweden. It increased then. It wasn't very successful. Secondly, with regard to education: yes, that is quite correct. That is what we are going to invest in, and I do not understand why the four bourgeois parties want to cut back on educational efforts. In addition, you did so during the financial crisis of 2008-2009, when I was President of IF Metall, and we said: Is it not now time to invest heavily in education and training efforts so as not to have to lay off people? You didn't do anything. You let people go into unemployment. I guess we lost tens of thousands of industrial jobs just because of this. So that is quite correct. Yeah, it's emergency work. It's extra favors. I've been to Söderhamn looking. New arrivals are doing a great job in the care of the elderly in Söderhamn. We are now up to about 6 000 such additional services, and more needs to be done for that. In addition, the parties are now negotiating how those with low education and experience should enter the labour market and make money like everyone else.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-18	Mr President, I would like to It has now been six months since 20 Swedes were killed or maimed in the heart of our capital city, among them an 11-year-old girl who was on her way to meet her mother. Apparently, the act of terror was carried out by a person who remained illegally in Sweden, a person who should not have been in our country at all or who should at least have been in custody but who could instead move freely and plan his action. Since 2010, the Swedish Democrats have put forward a number of proposals to stop the influx of illegal immigrants and to make the expulsion of those who are already in the country more effective. The Social Democrats have done the opposite in the same period of time, I think. In addition to voting against our proposals in this area time and again, a few years ago, the extreme left to stop the REVA project and the police's intensified efforts to reject illegal immigrants were joined. It has also helped to make Sweden more attractive to illegal immigration by helping to offer welfare services, in some cases more generous than those given to Swedish citizens, to illegal ones. However, in an adaptation to popular opinion, the government partially changed its feet last year and announced that 80 000 of those who arrived without valid reasons during the migration crisis would be rejected as soon as possible. But despite that promise and despite the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, almost nothing has happened in practice. Tens of thousands of illegals have been allowed to go underground. Only a fraction has been expelled so far. Of course, not all illegals are terrorists and perpetrators of violence. I'm sure a lot of people are decent, even if they don't have the right to be here. Yet, enough people may be suspected of having bad intentions for them to be considered a serious security threat. I would therefore appeal to the Prime Minister to start taking this security threat very seriously before more Swedish children are murdered. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what new measures we can expect from the government in this area because the measures that have been taken so far have obviously not been sufficient.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-25	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, it is this government that has changed migration policy. We have also reached a broad agreement with the opposition, with a view, of course, to having a better and more sustainable migration policy. We've done that. The second is on the illegal theme. There migration and asylum policy are clear about those who come here seeking asylum: If you do, you should have the best possible support into our society in order to contribute. If you don't, you're going back. It's not true that nothing happens. Last year 20 000 people returned, and so far this year we are somewhere just under 9 000. Of course, all those who do not have the right to be here must return. What we are doing now in addition to what we have done so far is to strengthen the police and ensure that the police, the Migration Agency and other authorities cooperate better. We are expanding the number of detention centres to ensure that people do not run away, so to speak. Instead, they should be put in custody. We're strengthening workplace controls. The risk is that these people will be exploited here in Sweden with disgusting working conditions and so on, and we shall not allow that. That is why we will ensure that the police have better opportunities to carry out such workplace checks. The police will also have better opportunities to seize passports or other identity documents, if you need to do so in an internal foreigner's control, and so on. This must be done properly, and people should, of course, feel maximum security in our country. However, Mr President, as Mattias Karlsson does on his Facebook page, it is not possible to post a picture of people who have actually been granted a residence permit and legally reside in this country and describe them as illegal immigrants, perhaps even terrorists. It must be a moderate measure, perhaps even for a Swedish democrat.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-33	Mr President, I would like to Whether or not all persons in this famous picture have valid residence permits are under discussion. I suppose that remains to be seen; we can discuss that on another occasion. I think it is good if we really agree on the basic starting point: that those who do not have the right to reside in the country should be rejected. But how is it that the government at the same time gives illegal immigrants, people who do not have the right to reside in the country, access to welfare services, which in some cases are more generously designed than those that Swedish pensioners, for example, receive when it comes to health care and dental care costs? In this way, the government counteracts the authorities that are said to want to support, the police among other things, who will work to get these people out. It is a strong incentive for people to stay and stay here illegally. This, in turn, poses a serious security threat. We do not know what these people are or what their purposes are. But we do know that some of them obviously have very bad intentions-- we saw that on Drottninggatan. I think this is an irresponsible policy. I wonder if Stefan Löfven is prepared to settle with that policy and withdraw welfare services for illegal and instead provide the police with the additional resources that are needed.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-37	Mr President, I would like to We have, of course, for a number of years rules and have agreed that there is a possibility for children to receive care, and for adults to receive care that cannot be tolerated. If you are very severe or fatally injured, you will receive care that cannot be tolerated. In addition, to say that you have the same access to welfare as people who live here is directly wrong, in my opinion.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-38	Mr President, I would like to Last week, Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi called it shameful that Swedish free schools have established themselves abroad. The minister had a very high tone and was not gracious in his criticism, as he usually sounds when it comes to people's freedom of choice and independent actors in welfare. But what Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi did not mention was that those very free schools that have established themselves abroad were part of the government's own trade delegation to Saudi Arabia. Thus, the government itself has encouraged schools to establish themselves abroad because it has positive effects for the children living in these countries and for the Swedish economy, but also for the image of Sweden abroad. The government seems to do one thing but say another, and there is a word for it: double standards. Stefan Löfven needs to show leadership and put his foot down. What's the deal? Does he agree with Shekarabi? Is it shameful to build schools in other countries? Has the government's trade delegation acted against the wishes of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Civil Affairs when they encouraged Swedish schools to establish themselves in other countries? Or do the ministers in the Swedish government not talk to each other?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-41	Mr President, I would like to This is not least a matter of profit withdrawals in Swedish welfare. Of course, we see the importance of service exports – it can also be knowledge companies and school companies. They are, of course, there, so I find it difficult to understand whether Annie Lööf thinks it is good or not that we are doing this trip. We're doing these trips, and there's companies in there. That's good. What we do not like, however, is when, if you earn the money here in Sweden by reducing the teacher density or other things, then you make sure to invest it in other countries. Then something's wrong. What Swedish taxpayers pay in here, for example to the school but also to health care and care for the elderly, should be used here. I think we agree on that. This is a question of whether the money is being used correctly. I do not know what it is like with the company that Annie Lööf mentions, which was in the trade delegation, but it is the principle that is important. That's what I'm standing up for. We also need to have a service export. We will develop it even more; it provides good revenue. But the money from Sweden's taxpayers who are dedicated to Swedish welfare should go there.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-44	Mr President, I would like to These free schools are of high quality, but let us talk about principles. To go on a sales trip together one year to strongly condemn this next year and call it shameful, despite doing what the government has encouraged – I find it very difficult to understand that reasoning, Stefan Löfven. But what about other companies, in principle? Should construction companies such as Skanska, which goes with surplus when building roads and railways with tax money in Sweden, be allowed to invest abroad in the future? Are they allowed to win construction contracts abroad, or is it shameful? And what about pharmaceutical companies, which receive tax money from Swedish county councils when they win procurements? The medicines are used to cure and treat the sick. Should they be allowed to sell their medicines in other countries? Is their profit from tax money also stealing? The Prime Minister is ultimately responsible in the government. It's time to put your foot down. Is it good that Swedish companies establish themselves abroad or not?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-48	Mr President, I would like to I have made a number of trips to the world with Swedish companies, to China, India and other countries, precisely for this purpose: We want to sell as much as possible. Sweden is attractive. Swedish companies are attractive. Only last night I met here in Stockholm Indian companies that want to cooperate with Swedish companies. Of course, we support this. We have always been in favour of exports; there is no doubt. The problem for Annie Lööf, Mr President, is that she does not see the difference in activity between a construction company and a school. There's a difference, I'd say. A construction company must of course ensure that its production is gradually rationalised. These are completely different conditions. A school should ensure that children have as much time as possible and as good and as many teachers as possible. It is a completely different focus on a school compared to a construction company.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-51	Mr President, I would like to One of the important things that the government believes it is doing in the field of education is to now expand teacher training. The background is that too few young people want to be teachers, and we have a lack of teachers. The problem with that is that if you expand the courses when there are too few applicants you have to bring in students who have lower and lower grades and suitability to fill the places. They cannot cope with the training, and then you have to slow down the pace of the education and lower the requirements to get the students through. This can be witnessed at virtually every Swedish university and every university. It says today in the paper that there has been a report from the University Chancellor's Office, which is presented today, which shows that the drop-out in the subject teacher's education has now increased further. Subject teachers are all high school teachers, you might say. 35 percent of those who start have dropped out within a year, and after a few more years there are even more. This is probably the highest number in the Swedish university system when it comes to defection. Then you have to ask yourself if the government is on the right track. In his reply, the Prime Minister can think a little loudly. If you already have too few applicants and those who apply have too low grades, what happens if the main measure increases the number of places even more?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-55	Mr President, I would like to I thought we still agreed that we need more teachers. That is the point of departure. How can we get more teachers? Yes, one way is, of course, to educate more people. That is why we are increasing the number of places but also investing in the quality of teacher training. Not least they need more teacher-led time, also at the university. Another way is to raise wages, raise status, improve conditions and increase freedom in educational work. So do we. In fact, for the first time in a long time, we have a great influx: those who have been teachers come back to the teaching profession. It's because we're raising the status. I believe that the number coming back has increased by 40% compared to 2014. This is because the status is increasing – you want to be a teacher again. Of course, this must also be the case with regard to applications. We want those with the best qualifications to apply. I know there's a difference between teacher training. It's the toughest thing on the subject teacher side. But we can't give up and say, "Let's pull down." According to Björklund's reasoning, we should reduce the number of training places. No, we can't do that. I think we agree that we should increase the number of training places and ensure that we get the most qualified applicants as possible, while developing the training. This is about raising the status of the teaching profession. We're in the middle of it. We are also in the process of implementing the School Commission's proposals. After all, the school commission agreed on what needs to be done in different parts of school policy. The work of the School Commission is certainly the most elaborate one that has been done in a long time. Now we will follow it up and implement it, and that includes raising the status of the teaching profession.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-62	Mr President, I would like to It is very little that the government does to actually raise the status of the teaching profession. It would really need more. Not least, the Social Democratically ruled Association of Local Authorities (SKL) does very little for that. In fact, it is a very substantial raise that would be needed in the teaching profession – far more than is happening now. As long as the school is municipal, the social democraticly governed SKL must, of course, take responsibility for this. The government can do a lot of shooting. The state has made a move both under our government and under your government, but that is completely inadequate. The search pressure for teacher education increased slightly after the 2011 reforms. Then we made reforms with first teacher systems and teacher identification. Then the search pressure increased. Now it's sinking. It's sinking again, now that you're Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven. In addition, we see that 35% is dropping out. You say beautiful things, but they're totally against reality. In reality, more and more people drop out and fewer apply for teacher education. The teaching profession is not just any profession. This is Sweden's most important future job, if we want to invest in the future in our country. You respond by expanding the number of seats so that even more unauthorized people come in.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-66	Mr President, I would like to We agree to raise the status of the teaching profession. Wages are part of this. That is why we have increased the salaries of tens of thousands of teachers. They've been paid a lot higher. If the proportion of people who have previously been teachers and now want to get back into the profession increases by 40%, I think it may be a sign that more people find it attractive to be a teacher. But the main question remains for Björklund. So his conclusion is that we should reduce the number of training places for teachers. It's hair traveler, I think. It is clear that we should make sure to expand and strengthen teacher training. It must be a much better way. However, this should be done in parallel with strengthening the education and ensuring that those who are currently not teachers but have an academic degree, such as engineers who need educational training, can receive the education needed to become teachers. Here it is important to have a broad arsenal and make sure that more people want to become teachers.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-69	Mr President, I would like to A good principle is to save in the barns in good times to equip the economy for bad times. The government does the opposite. But even though you are burning 40 billion in the middle of a boom, you are not spending a single crown to restore the LSS as the freedom reform it was supposed to be. LSS support is hijacked around Sweden. In October 2015, the Minister of Finance said that the Government considered that it was possible to save the assistance allowance. The number of persons with assistance started to decrease directly and has since decreased by more than 1 000 people. During June, July and August this year personal assistance was hijacked for an average of two and a half people a day. Autistic Nic las in Mullsjö has previously had 165 hours of assistance a week. Now it's going to be two and a half hours a week. Monika in Sandviken has had LSS support for over 20 years. Now it can disappear completely. I read on Facebook about a person who has had personal assistance around the clock for many years. Now this person, who is under 50 years of age, has received assistance and is forced against his will to move into a retirement home. Is it worthy, Stefan Löfven? You say that the investments in your budget will benefit everyone. Why, then, do you not include all those who need personal assistance for their freedom and in many cases for their survival? KD requires a change of law. We propose an addition to the LSS of 3.3 billion in our budget to restore it as the freedom reform it was supposed to be. Why do you say no to that, Stefan Löfven?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-75	Mr President, I would like to It was a neckbreaking start by Andreas Carlson about saving in the barns. You handed over a budget with a deficit of SEK 60 billion. Now we have turned it into a surplus of 80 billion. Which would Andreas Carlson prefer, if you are to talk welfare and endurance in welfare? We are doing this precisely so that we can show the citizens that welfare will last not only today but in five years or ten years' time. That is why we are always clearing up your budget deficits. Now it's the third time in a row. There is no denying this. Just look at the numbers. I can read, and I think Andreas Carlson can, too. As far as LSS is concerned, there is also an incorrect task. We raise the flat rate in the budget bill for 2018, and we increase the habilitation compensation for the municipalities of LSS. There have been a number of judgments, which we believe are the reason why decisions have a different character now. That is exactly why we are following up those Supreme Administrative Court judges. Is it these judgments that lead to a different handling by the Authority, and should it be corrected in any way? We need to look at this. This is what we are doing now – if I remember correctly, the report comes at the end of the year – so that we can draw conclusions on what might need to be addressed. Let us wait for this. But it is a wrong task that we do nothing about the LSS. It is a law of rights in which the government has not changed anything. It is exactly the same rights as before. It is the authority that is dealing with this, and now we have to see if the handling has changed as a result of the judges. Then we will draw conclusions about what needs to be done.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-79	Mr President, I would like to It takes more money. That is why in our budget we devote 3.3 billion more than the government to restoring the LSS. It is precisely what Stefan Löfven is talking about that is also why we are calling for a change of law. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency produced a report in June that shows that the Prime Minister says: that the interpretation of the law has changed. That is why we are calling for a change of law. We want to strengthen the law that we once were involved in. We want to get a change of law that will put an end to the cost-hunting within the LSS. Stefan Löfven is now opening up to look at this and evaluate this. But will the government assume its responsibilities, or will the Prime Minister allow the stealth to continue? The assistance is withdrawn for more than two people a day by delay and by burying this issue in investigation after investigation. It has to take action now. We demand a change of law, Stefan Löfven.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-81	Mr President, I would like to We are not just opening for this; we have begun this search, and we are going to complete it. It is in progress, and it will end at the turn of the year. Then we will draw conclusions. I think it is a good order that we have it that way. As far as the money is concerned, I can say that we have contributed funds to the 2018 budget proposal and are raising the lump sum. I think that's good. No one has made any changes to the legislation at all. It looks exactly the same as before. If the courts now judge differently and they lead to a different practice, we must look at it. That work is now under way. It will end, and then we will draw conclusions. Let's start discussing when we see them.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-83	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! One should be able to trust the health insurance, said Lage when I spoke to him. He had worked 44 years when he couldn't take it anymore. He has a kidney disease, severe osteoarthritis with very severe pain and severe asthma, but is denied sickness benefit. He said: I thought health insurance would be there for me now that I've been working so hard for 44 years and paying taxes, but, well, what I cheated on! Lage has worked as a treatment assistant and helped other people. It was also one of the reasons for his disappointment at the rejection. He wondered: ‘ Why doesn't society stand up for me when I volunteered? One of the reasons for the increased rejections is the government's governance of Försäkringskassan. This is highlighted by the Social Security Inspection. This makes me very worried, because it is about which society we want to live in. We should be able to rely on health insurance. Isn't it time to change the governance of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, Prime Minister?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-87	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson raises an important issue which I also debated with Jonas Sjöstedt yesterday. It is important to say that we cannot have an order where people fall between different insurance systems. Some of the systems must be there to catch a human being. According to Försäkringskassan there must be no other system. That we drive us to get sick leave down I think is quite natural, because it's not good if people go sick for long. We want them healthy and back to work as quickly as possible and, of course, in as dignified a form as possible. But if it is not within that framework, it is someone else who has to catch up on this. That is exactly what we need to be very clear about. You can't let people fall between the chairs.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-89	Mr President, I would like to Poverty makes no man sick, we said when the bourgeoisie introduced the precipice.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-90	What makes me very worried is that the withdrawal of sickness benefit is actually higher now than during the time of the bourgeoisie. One of the reasons for this, which the Social Security Inspection raises, is the governance of the Social Insurance Agency. There is a risk of increasing rejection. Being sick is something. To be forced to go to Arbetsförmedlingen when you are ill is not reasonable in a welfare society. That's why I'm wondering: Isn't it time to review the governance now, Prime Minister? Aren't you worried?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-92	Mr President, I would like to If people fall between the chairs, I'm worried. I cannot comment on individual cases, as Ulla Andersson will understand. But we need to think about how people will get back to work as quickly as possible and get away from the disease. I think everyone benefits from this – the individual and society. Then we have to make sure that people don't fall between the chairs. Somewhere you need to have the right to your livelihood.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-93	Mr President, I would like to The other night when I was going home, I saw a young barber sitting and reading a book. As I got closer to him, I realized that it was one of the young people who was at the recreation center where I worked a few years ago. At that time, he had dropped out of school. There were no extra resources from the adult world. I'm sure a lot of people in here realize what environments and who else was able to catch him. On the other hand, he told us that he had survived because the police had intervened and that he had been supported in leaving the crime he had ended up in. Life has changed for him. It's all right. He's working. He's sitting there with the book and studying.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-96	Mr President, I would like to This is the issue that I think is at the top of the agenda for many people. How do we create security in our society? How do we defend ourselves against crime? How do we prevent crime? The defense must be here and now. It must be a faster and tougher response to crime, not least gang crime, because it is also the one that attracts young people. I was in Östberga the other day and took note of the work that the police are doing there to gradually push back the gangs and gang criminals in collaboration with other authorities. We'll raise the penalty. The police will have more resources. For example, weapons crimes must be tackled much more quickly. Whoever goes with guns is going to jail right away. In addition, we must ensure prevention. How do we ensure that long-term unemployment is broken? It is about ensuring that schools work well, so that young people get a good education and do not have to go that way. It is a question of being hard on the crimes and also hard on the causes of the crimes. That's the deal.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-99	Mr President, I would like to Recently, hundreds of thousands of Rohingyes have been displaced to Bangladesh from the Rakhine state in Burma/ Myanmar. People have been burned inside and murdered. In fact, the UN is talking about an ongoing genocide. This requires Sweden to act. The Government has already provided emergency assistance of over 40 million via Sida. It's amazingly good, but much more can be done. Aung San Suu Kyi has not taken a stand to strengthen the rights of this vulnerable group in a way that might have been hoped for but to back up the repression. Now the situation is urgent. The outside world must react strongly.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-102	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important foreign policy issue. As we follow the fate of these people, we are affected by how miserable and disgusting people can have it. I talked to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and some of his associates a few months ago about what these people are experiencing. This is actually the most disgusting thing some have seen. This has to stop. That is why we are bringing it up bilaterally with Myanmar. We are bringing it up via the European Union. We'll bring it up in ASEAN. We are on the Security Council and, of course, we are raising the issue there too in order for the UN to act. Now the demands are to put an end to these abuses. The military operations must be stopped immediately. Humanitarian aid must be given an opportunity to enter humanitarian organisations. And it is a question of ensuring that an independent investigation and accountability are carried out. Those who commit these crimes must, of course, be held accountable.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-105	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Prime Minister visited the Aurora exercise, where Swedish units practiced together with units from the NATO countries USA and France. In what way does this type of cooperation contribute to the security of our country and of our Nordic and Baltic neighbours?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-106	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I went to Aurora. I also ate the new military food, which tasted excellent. It is important that we raise our own defence capabilities. That is why we are providing resources for personnel and for equipment. But it is also important that we have the opportunity to practice. Exercise is what ultimately determines whether you should be able to use both the materials and the human resources. I have asked the management and the m who participated in the exercise how they viewed this. It is, of course, a tremendous asset for them to be able to practice, not least with new materials. It is quite obvious that practice is good. We intend to continue with it in different forms and with different countries or ourselves. We're going to supply supplies. We're going to provide resources. We're going to practice. That's how we're gonna strengthen our defense capabilities.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-109	Mr President, I would like to Despite the fact that very serious social problems have been evident since the day of this parliamentary term, the government has failed to take the necessary measures. These include gang crime, burning cars, rape and the police crisis – so we have fewer trained police officers on duty than when the government took office. There is nothing flattering about getting into the labour market with a former prime minister. Making it easier for the police to use camera surveillance was something that the government voted against in this House on 6 April, when the Swedish Democrats tabled the proposal. So it was the day before the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan on 7 April. After the terrorist attack, the government usually called for broad agreements with the opposition, minus the Swedish Democrats, to agree on the proposals of the Swedish Democrats, among other things. Mr President, I would like to My question is why fine promises, including to the police, come only at the end of a term of office when the problems have been apparent for a long time? Why are the necessary measures not taken before something very serious happens?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-112	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is a directly incorrect description. We have provided the police with resources since we took office, since the first budget. We've tightened the laws. They were too lax. We've tightened up a number of laws. We've tightened up the law on serious violent crimes. We're just tightening up the weapons laws. It is a drug offence, as well as a serious drug offence. We have tightened up these laws. We're adding more resources to the police. We're adding more resources to the Security Service. The police are now receiving more resources than has been requested. We've tightened the laws. We've already expanded camera surveillance. There are now more cameras out there than have ever been. We intend to move forward, so there will be further legislative reinforcements in this area. That's what the police think is good. But we need to do even more. We must ensure that those who attack blue-light personnel are dealt with resolutely, because that will never be accepted. That is what we are moving forward with. We've been working from day one, and we're gonna keep going. The message with regard to gang crime is that it should be removed.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-115	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the UK's withdrawal from the EU, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will move from London. Sweden submitted its official application this summer to take over the hostship of the Agency. Since then, the Commission has assessed the tenders received on the basis of the criteria without ranking them. In the meantime, Sweden has continued its work on the campaign both at ministerial level and at official level. The issue of relocation will be discussed at the General Council and at the European Council in October and decided upon by the General Council on 20 November. In the light of the Commission's evaluation, how does the Prime Minister view Sweden's potential to become a new host country for the European Medical Authority? Are they still good?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-117	Mr President, I would like to We have, as Yasmine Larsson says, worked very structured, hard and purposefully, because we think this authority fits so well here. We have a strong life science sector. This is not just about the pharmaceutical industry and the medical technology industry, but it is very well justified by the fact that we also have strong research and a good link between research, education and the life science sector in general. We also believe that we made a strong offer to the European Union. An evaluation has now taken place, as has been said here. It is if I remember the right 18 countries that want this, so there are quite a few. If we now assume that it is evaluation on the substance that is constantly governing, as we obviously mean, we are in a good position. It is, of course, impossible to say, because this is a tough fight. But we think we have a good offer, and I also believe and hope that we are on the short list that will come sooner or later. Of course, the evil is best, but we are doing our best, and we believe that the authority is right here.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-120	Mr President, I would like to Today, more than 80 per cent of all new applications for assistance at Försäkringskassan are rejected. Behind this horrifying figure lies the lives of hundreds of people who are beaten in ruins and families who are forced to live in a reality that can only be described as a nightmare. The fact that it looks like this, as the Prime Minister said, is mainly due to a number of judgments on fundamental needs and new case law. The government keeps saying that you cannot control the judgment of the courts, which is true, but you sit here as legislators, and when a law no longer lives up to its purpose, it is your responsibility to review the law and change it. Therefore, Prime Minister, I wonder: when are you going to change the legislation so that it lives up to the intention of the LSS?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-123	Mr President, I would like to It may be boring, but unfortunately it will have to be the same answer as to the previous questioner. A review is now under way of how these judges influence practice and the exercise of authority. When we have it, which comes here at the end of the year, we can then draw conclusions. So we wait for it and then draw conclusions about what needs to be done.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-125	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals' view is that the state should only protect civil equality. Swedish law does not allow polygamy. Yet as many as 300 people are registered with the Tax Agency who are married to more than one person. This is because the law on certain international legal relations recognises the polygamy that was concluded before it came to Sweden. This means that we in Sweden accept the laws of Saudi Arabia and Syria that say that men may be married to four wives. In March this year, a united parliament issued an announcement to the government to set up an investigation and stop the recognition of polygamy. Despite this, the government refuses to set up an investigation, and a survey has been requested – a survey that already exists, because we know that there are 300 people. Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister has a choice to either continue to allow Syrian and Saudi men to have several wives and be married here in Sweden or really be a feminist government and plug the hole in the law to protect women in polygamy. Prime Minister, what do you choose?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-130	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that polygamy is reprehensible, both for women and for children in polygamy marriages. It is not at all in accordance with the equal policies we are going to have here in Sweden. Sweden should be an equal society. When we received the announcement from the Riksdag was part of it, as we read it, that there should also be an analysis here so that we really should see where the problem is, how it looks and how big it is. This is done first, and then you draw conclusions. It is a pretty good order we have in a parliamentary system, and so we have received the Parliament's order. We are doing it, and of course it should be done as quickly as possible. We have no other opinion on the matter than that, of course, this should be stopped.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-134	Mr President, I would like to This weekend I was in Manila, Philippines, where I met fellow parties from Akbayan. Once on the ground, I witnessed persecution of the poor – something that goes by the name At the same time, the Philippines has an agreement with the EU on trade preferences, GSP Plus, which also provides for compliance with human rights and the rule of law. Therefore, my question is whether the Prime Minister believes that GSP Plus can be used as a tool to get the government and President of the Philippines to actually start respecting human rights.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-136	Mr President, I would like to This is a flagrant case we see. I think I have heard that between 7 000 and 9 000 people have been murdered under this regime's, as they say, hunt for drug criminals. There is no doubt that this is something that needs to be criticised, and it is also made clear. The ILO has also criticised this approach because the GSP Plus conditions have not been met. Therefore, the EU is now engaged in a close dialogue with the Philippine Government to see what they need to do to benefit from GSP Plus. If it is not fulfilled, I assume that it will not be enjoyed. That's how it has to be.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-138	Mr President, I would like to During the eight years of the Alliance's government, Sweden was a true leader in climate policy, because we managed to reconcile rapidly declining emissions with strong economic development. However, the results-oriented and successful climate policy pursued by the Alliance was replaced after the choice of a red-green wasteful placard policy, leading to rising emissions and running costs. Before the government presented its budget proposal for 2018, I had the hope that the government would learn from its mistakes and reconsider its policy. Unfortunately, more was done by inefficient subsidies. Among other things, the government wants to significantly increase the subsidies to solar cells that the PV industry itself wants to phase out the aid. New in this year's budget is also support for electric bicycles. Here, Mr President, the government is really out of its way. We want to spend 350 million in subsidies on a market that is already flourishing. My question to the Prime Minister, Mr President, is: why does the government choose inefficient, very costly subsidies instead of focusing on results and cost-effectiveness?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-141	Mr President, I would like to When we took office, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency said that the target that we agree on in terms of how much emissions will be reduced by 2020 would not be achieved if the policy then prevailing were to continue. That's when 4 million tons were missing. Now the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says that with the policy being pursued now we can very well close that gap. Now we can achieve the first target by 2020. The climate environment that we invest in creates a popular movement throughout Sweden, where companies, organisations and individuals are making efforts to reverse the climate threat that we are experiencing. I think it is anticipated that emissions will be reduced by 20 million tonnes. That's good, I think. We have to keep doing that. Then let us be clear that after 2020 we will continue in accordance with the climate framework that we agree on.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-144	Mr President, I would like to After the situation in autumn 2015, an increasing number of parties, including the Prime Minister's own, realised that migration policy must be sustainable and long-term. Among other things, we got new legislation in place, even if it is temporary. There are still high arrival rates, and there are still a high number of applications for family immigration, where the granting rate is in principle unchanged despite the new legislation. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's forecasts, in terms of the granting rate, Sweden will receive approximately 140 000 family migrants in the coming years. This corresponds to about 12 Husby. What does the Prime Minister intend to do to plan this reception? When can we expect permanent, sustainable legislation that actually means further tightening up sustainable policies?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-147	Mr President, I would like to As has been said, in an agreement with the bourgeois parties, the government has laid down migration policy so that it will continue to be sustainable. We follow that agreement, and there is a temporary law. That's the one. When the law expires in July 2019, something else will be in place. That is why I am spending so much time on giving Europe a comprehensive migration policy. Seven pieces of legislation are now being discussed there. They're important. This is not just a matter for Sweden; it is a matter for the European Union. Ultimately, it is a global issue. But let us stick to the European Union and ensure that the European Union gets a regulatory framework in place that allows the Member States to share responsibility. It's a shared responsibility. Then it will be a completely different situation. Swedish migration policy must be sustainable, and it will be.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-151	Mr President, I would like to I will continue on the EU track. The Prime Minister and I agree that there must be consequences if a Member State of the European Union ignores the principles of the rule of law. Poland has been ignoring the principles of the rule of law for two years, and the European Commission has threatened to trigger the so-called nuclear bomb of the EU Treaty, that is to say, to deprive Poland of the right to vote in the Council. But the Prime Minister also knows that the nuclear bomb threat in practice is ineffective. Such decisions require unanimity and, for example, Hungary would definitely vote no. We know that. So the Polish government just grinning at the threat. On the other hand, EU budgets are decided by a qualified majority. So there is a realistic opportunity here for the EU to strangle some of Poland's gigantic agricultural subsidies. Does the Prime Minister see any possibility of using economic sanctions via EU budgets as a means of exerting pressure to persuade Poland to comply with the rule of law?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-157	Mr President, I would like to The government has taken up this perspective in another matter, namely migration policy. We mean the same thing there. If not all countries are prepared to assume their responsibilities, it is reasonable to discuss that they cannot enjoy unchanged aid either – of what kind. Maria Abrahamsson is right that this has been going on for a long time. I have talked to the Commission representatives about this. It is the Commission's job to ensure that the Treaty is upheld. If the Commission concludes that the Treaty is not being upheld, I believe that it should be prepared to discuss such measures. It won't be easy. We must not undermine the whole of European cooperation, but I certainly think it is a legitimate discussion to raise. If you enter an association, you must also stand up for its statutes.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-161	Mr President, I would like to A functioning infrastructure is the basis for a functioning society. The infrastructure is an important cog in our welfare because it gives us the opportunity to go to work, to preschool, to school, to college, and it also gives us the opportunity to visit loved ones. It is therefore important that there is a functioning infrastructure throughout the country, both in the internal municipalities and in the metropolitan regions. Unfortunately, today there is an infrastructure that in many places does not measure up. There are cracks, so-called potholes, on the highways and bus courses that do not directly invite to go collectively. This is a problem for many around the country, and it is an issue which too often falls under the shadow of other political debates.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-165	Mr President, I would like to Pia Nilsson brings up something that is close to my heart. I grew up in the countryside, and I remember the holes very well. Then it wasn't even asphalt, it was gravel road. From year one, the government has added money for road and rail maintenance in order for improvements to be made. For us, it is important that this is about the whole country. If we are talking about Sweden, we are talking about conditions for the whole country. That is why we are putting additional money into the 2018 budget proposal to ensure that there are working roads and railways. We also add resources for public transport around the country. It is not just large cities that should have public transport. In a number of ways, the government has provided resources. I also hope that it will be felt in reality for people in their everyday lives.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-169	Mr President, I would like to The nuclear threat is not a remnant of the Cold War. There are still 15 000 nuclear warheads, and their existence is in itself a threat to the existence of the earth. The issue has been highlighted by the fact that the Peace Prize goes to Ican, the campaign to ban nuclear weapons. North Korea very much reminds us that the issue is topical. North Korea's nuclear tests and missile tests pose a real threat to world peace. The rhetoric is also becoming increasingly loud from both the Presidents of North Korea and the United States. Sweden has a rather unique position. Sweden is a member of the Security Council, and Sweden is one of not so many Western countries that has an embassy in Pyongyang. In addition, Sweden is one of even fewer countries monitoring the cease-fire on the border between North and South Korea. How does Sweden, the Prime Minister, use the unique position to arrive at a peaceful diplomatic solution?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-173	Mr President, I would like to Olle Thorell raises a crucial question of fate. We are all reminded of the conflict in which North Korea develops its nuclear weapons. We hope that the miniaturization has not yet worked, but it will be a sharper and sharper situation. This reminds us of the devastating effects of nuclear weapons. That is why we must work towards nuclear weapons in general. But there is also a concrete conflict with North Korea. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in his contacts, I in my contacts and others in his contacts that Sweden has exactly the conditions that Olle Thorell mentions. In addition to being on the Security Council, Sweden has a long-standing presence in Pyongyang. If requested, we are there. We cannot take over responsibility and run the process, but if it is requested, Sweden is there. Then we will do everything we can to alleviate the conflict.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-175	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democratic-led government proposes permanently increased funding for school, welfare, care and care. It is in order to ensure quality and improve the working environment for teachers, nurses, health professionals and others. In contrast, the bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, have presented their budgets. They would mean substantial cuts. How does the Prime Minister think that the country would be affected in the future if these increased funds, proposed by the Social Democratic-led government, were not to come from the local government sector?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-177	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly where the discussion is now in politics: which society are we going to develop? I am absolutely convinced that building a community and common security and investing in each other is, of course, a much stronger society. It is for Sweden's competitiveness. It is precisely that part of the Swedish model that representatives of other countries are watching, and when they meet me they wonder what we do that works so well. Then I'll try to explain. Just look at the eight years of the previous bourgeois government. Then the gaps in our country increased dramatically. Sweden was the western country where the gaps increased most, which is due to these issues. It would of course be a big setback to do just the opposite when we have now changed direction and started investing to take the really big step and strengthen welfare. We already know the results. It has been tried three times, during three periods of bourgeois government in modern times, and it was nothing uplifting.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-182	Mr President, I would like to According to one survey, 70 percent of drivers and buttons are on their mobile phones while driving. They send text messages, answer text messages, read text messages, and so on. Four years ago this figure was 24 per cent, so it has increased from 24 per cent to 70 per cent in just four years. There has also been an increase in the number of drivers who say that they have been near an accident because of the button on their mobile phone. The figure has increased from 18% to 23%. According to the study, they are also concerned about this. Can we not impose a ban on sitting and buttoning the phone? We must keep our eyes on the road if Sweden is to achieve a zero vision of road fatalities.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-185	Mr President, I would like to It is a very important safety issue, and road safety is also a priority for the government. Therefore, the Swedish Transport Agency was tasked with evaluating the current regulatory framework, which was introduced under the previous government, and the meaning of which is that it must not deal with this in a dangerous way. The Swedish Transport Agency's recommendation is to have a ban. The proposal is now being referred, and I can only see that the ambition is to proceed with this proposal. We must, of course, wait for the referee and draw conclusions from them. But I think it's natural that you don't call and text when you're driving. You should have a full focus on driving.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-188	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has long been at the forefront of the environment. It has given us cleaner water and healthier air, and it has been good for human health and our environment. Sometimes it has meant tough demands on our companies to change, but it has also resulted in many Swedish companies today being able to successfully compete with sustainable products and services in a global market. Sweden and Swedish companies are associated by many with good environment and climate-smart solutions. The global green transition that is now taking place, when countries want to reduce their climate impact or deal with large air pollutants, is therefore a great opportunity for Swedish companies. How does the government work to ensure that as many Swedish for eta g as possible can do good business now that world demand is becoming increasingly green? How does the government work with green exports?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-192	Mr President, I would like to Connecting the climate transition with development is an overall strategic issue. That is the strength of this. Once you understand this, and I hope that more people understand it, you realise that that is where the new jobs come and the new technologies lie. We're doing everything we can. Let me mention two examples. We have a variety of forms of collaboration with the business community. We are now bringing the industrial life, where society, together with the companies, sees what can be done more to find cleaner technology, the technology of the future and the jobs of the future and share that investment. Here there are many good suggestions from a very interested industry. The second is that when we travel in our delegations we talk about a lot of environmental issues and that Swedish companies are very strong on this. It creates a lot of interest. Only yesterday when I sat with the Indian companies, they pointed to the environmental issue as one of the most important.
i-9749646c4cf8d092-196	Mr President, the Prime Minister. For us Social Democrats, order and order are important key words when it comes to the Swedish labour market. Here the Swedish model will apply, Swedish salaries will apply and here we will have good employment conditions and a good working environment. Entrepreneurs should be able to compete with quality and efficiency, not with tax fines and rogue conditions. For this to work, our authorities need to work effectively with their regulatory oversight. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Financial Crime Agency, the Swedish Work Environment Authority and others must work together to be effective. There is today a project, Team Osund, which is a collaboration between authorities to reduce crime in the construction industry. Now I have received signals that this collaboration is being called into question at some authorities – this at the same time as the government provides 18 million annually for three years to deepen collaboration. How does the Prime Minister view the need for the supervision of government agencies to be coordinated to curb unfair competition and ensure order and order in the Swedish labour market?
i-9749646c4cf8d092-200	Mr President, I would like to I would say that this is absolutely crucial for the national economy. Surely everyone should think: Why should rogue companies be allowed to compete out serious companies? The whole Swedish model is based on the fact that we are all doing the right thing. People work, and both individuals and companies pay taxes. In an environment where this is undermined, the whole of the Swedish model is undermined. Therefore, the authorities shall carry out their mission. Coordination between several authorities is one such task. It could be the police, the tax authorities, the bailiffs, and so on. This is also important in the fight against organised crime. Here, eleven or twelve authorities will work together to clear it up, because it is a threat to security and undermines our entire Swedish model. This coordination is therefore important.
