i-715095a36e069253-2	Madam President, I would like In recent years there has been a sharp increase in the illegal presence of explosives, especially hand grenades, in Sweden. In several cases hand grenades have been thrown into premises and homes. There are clear indications that persons belonging to criminal groupings have access to explosives to a greater extent than in the past and also have a greater tendency to use them. ..................................................... I support this description of the reality expressed by the government in the proposal we are now going to debate. The bill is about the Swedish Customs' ability to search and prosecute the illegal import of explosives. The bill gives the Swedish Customs the power to investigate and investigate offences against the rules of entry of explosives. This is not the right thing to do today, which is a major problem for the stability of society and our daily security. The fact that this has not been possible is very serious. The primary reason for this is that in the Swedish bureaucracy hand grenades are designated as explosive rather than the weapon they are. The entire sick leaves have thereby actively contributed to destabilising society and favouring serious criminal groupings by not acting to solve the problem when government power is held. The Customs Agency's border control activities with other EU countries are governed by the Internal Borders Act, which is based on the so-called TFEU, which in turn regulates the free movement of goods and services within the EU. Swedish authorities have feared the wording of Articles 34 and 35 of the Treaty, which prohibits restrictive controls and restrictions on trade between EU countries. The Act on the Internal Borders Powers of the Customs Service contains a list of goods which are exempt from the prohibition of controls in the Treaty and which can therefore be sought. That list lists arms and war material as product groups that may be checked and searched at internal borders. Explosives are not included as such but are now proposed to be added. As I explained at the beginning of my speech, the smuggling of hand grenades and other weapons, for example, has increased sharply in recent years. In the Riksdag, there have also been motions to remedy the problem of hand grenades being introduced into Sweden without customs having the right to search and handle seizures of such goods. In the current parliamentary year alone, eleven motions were submitted to the Riksdag for stricter measures against the smuggling of hand grenades. We Swedish democrats have four different motions that affect different parts of the problem of increased violence involving hand grenades. This is not a new issue; it has been there for several years. The proposal is primarily about the Customs Agency being able to prosecute smuggling of just hand grenades into Sweden. It is an almost unimaginable awkwardness from the Swedish government constellations that has meant that the issue has not been resolved several years ago. Madam President, I would like It may be interesting to see a definition of the concept of weapons. On Wikipedia, the concept is described as follows: Weapons extend from prehistoric weapons such as lumps, spears and specially designed stones to very complex modern weapons such as intercontinental ballistic missiles. In a broader sense, weapons are something that can be used to gain an advantage against an enemy or to defend itself and others against external threats. ..................................................... The easiest solution would have been to use the Swedish language correctly and define hand grenades as weapons, which I insisted on in a motion last autumn. Then we would not have had to have this debate today. I take the absence of registered debaters as the shame of the representatives of the other parties for their actions. Madam President, I would like What is good about this bill is that there will finally be an opportunity for the Customs to act against the smuggling of hand grenades. However, it is going far too slowly. The Government wants to postpone the implementation of the Act until 1 November 2017. This is a new point in a list of points in the introduction law, a total of twelve words. The legislative text is already clear, and the government itself writes in its proposal that the new legislation should enter into force as soon as possible. Yet they choose to give the arms smugglers additional respite time so that they can work in peace for a while longer without too much risk of being discovered and stopped. Significantly more advanced legislative proposals have been implemented considerably faster than this, and we believe that this amendment could have been made so that it could have entered into force as early as 1 July 2017. It is sad that the representatives of the other seven parties are so tired that they cannot understand the importance of speeding up implementation. You can be absolutely sure that the criminal networks are well aware of the time window that is kept open for almost risk-free introduction of hand grenades. How many more people do you think will suffer because of your slowness? Madam President, I would like It is not only important to give the Finnish Customs the power to search for coarser weapons, such as hand grenades. It is at least as important to strengthen Customs' ability to carry out the necessary checks. Already today, the Customs Agency is heavily reduced by recent years' reorganisations, and many border crossings lack solid customs staffing. In addition, the Swedish Customs will be forced to reduce further their personnel resources due to the fact that the sick leaves, with small variations, do not want to increase the resources needed for the Swedish Customs to meet their commitments. In its budget inquiry for 2017 and 2018, the Swedish Customs Agency has clearly explained how it is forced to cut staff to manage the budget and how it will mean that it will not be able to meet the requirements of the work. To solve this problem, we have budgeted a level increase for the Swedish Customs Agency in 2017 and forward of SEK 275 million more than the government. The situations that arise when attempts are made to smuggle weapons and explosives into Sweden are dangerous in nature. The increased risk to customs staff when actively seeking illegal explosives is therefore not difficult to see. Therefore, the level of protection for border guards must also be increased. It is then natural to ensure that the staff to deal with such situations are equipped to take care of all possible situations. You should also be able to defend yourself and your colleagues. Madam President, I would like If we do not resolve these issues as quickly as possible, we will see how the current legislative proposal will, to a large extent, turn out to be a paper tiger. Without ability – no workshop. We are, of course, in favour of both our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 1.
i-715095a36e069253-26	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the motion and rejecting the motion for a resolution tabled by Olle Felten. Of course, one can discuss how fast things are going to happen. The reservation that was put forward is that we should introduce this much faster than the government has left its proposal. You might think so, but things have to take their course. I agree that this should have been done considerably earlier. The questions should have been dealt with earlier, but they cannot be speeded up just for the sake of the matter. We started this already in 2015 and have been working on it right up to now. This applies, of course, not only to this issue, but also to other issues relating to the same problem. It is not entirely free to introduce hand grenades into Sweden today simply because customs do not have powers. Instead, you get a more complicated procedure where the police need to be involved and where you take care of things in a slightly more cumbersome way. But you don't give a giant trip to smugglers to bring illegal goods into Sweden. That's not how it works. I thought I'd reflect briefly on weapons handling. We have a customs service that has the authority to use certain different weapons. They have personal protection sprays and also firearms – guns – but today they choose how and when to use them. It is not in this House, therefore, that we are restricting the possibilities of arming, but they are taking care of it themselves at the Customs Office. I am convinced that they would see the natural danger that Olle Felten spoke of. It sounds a bit like he thinks we have Narcos here in Sweden and the whole smuggling problem that exists in Mexico, where you shoot at each other to get goods across the border. It's not like that. Those who smuggle into Sweden have no interest in creating attention or disrupting their own business. They want to go under the radar and do it as calmly and carefully as possible. They don't want us to know the goods are here. We do not need to escalate this ourselves. We have the resources and the opportunity to do something about potentially dangerous situations when it is estimated that they have occurred, but I think we should hand it over to the Customs, not armed people at the border unnecessarily. This natural danger simply does not exist. Rather, there is a natural calm where no one on the other side has any interest in paying attention. We hunt them as best we can using different methods. We'd rather have another X-ray machine to X-ray trucks than more guns at the border. That's my position, clearly. Should anything change dramatically, the Finnish Customs will definitely pay attention to this, but it has not yet happened.
i-715095a36e069253-34	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate something which is obvious but which seems to be difficult in practice. It is a question of cooperating across traditional borders. We have been talking about this for decades, almost without a single step forward. That is why we think it is now important that we take a stronger step in the right direction and present a new legislative proposal. It is about the need to get out of the classical drainpipes, where there is a lot of territory, and start working together on the basis of the people who are discharged after being in hospital, in cases where they must have input from society when they return to their municipality of residence. I guess we've all heard stories about how it all too often looks when you get home. You may not be able to come home directly and need a special short-term accommodation for a while, and when you are finished in the hospital there are no places on the accommodation and you are left behind. Or you need some home care or home care, and these aren't even touchable. There are far too many shortcomings and examples. The heads have had many years to fix this under several governments. We now propose the introduction of a new law. The aim is for the entire chain to be closed around the person who is ready to discharge at the hospital. The efforts you need to work together on time. When you end up in a hospital, the parties involved must be notified directly, at least within 24 hours, and then everything around the patient/ individual must start to be planned so that it is ready when you are discharged and allowed to leave the hospital. A fixed health contact that you get when you get into the hospital should be kept when you come home from inpatient care. The law contains a number of proposals to make it work in practice, including agreements on liability in the hopefully few cases where the patient cannot come home, although the doctor has said that the patient has been treated in the hospital. The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2018 for somatic care and one year later, on 31 December 2018, for those hospitalized in closed psychiatric care. It is important to get this improvement started as quickly as possible, because otherwise many people will continue to get caught: those who need to get home from the hospital and, not least, all those who are waiting in hospital. Madam President, I would like The second, much larger, part that needs to be changed is the entire organisation of health care, especially between hospital care and primary care. A very important investigation has been carried out by Göran Stiernstedt : Effective care. It was created by the bourgeois government, and the mission was to look at how to make more effective use of the large resources available in health care. The study presented many very good proposals, and the members of the committee were very positive in their presentation to the committee. As part of and a continuation of the investigation, the government that exists today has appointed Anna Nergårdh to lead the work of changing and modernising care with a focus on primary care. The first step in introducing Mr Stiernstedt's proposal is now taken: an interim report was presented last week. This is a step in a major structural change in health care in Sweden, and it follows exactly what Stiernstedt presented. Madam President, I would like The most important point is that it should be primary care that forms the basis for our health care. The status of health centres needs to be increased, competences need to be increased and study opportunities need to be increased. You should not have to go to hospital for things that can be arranged at home via the health centre. Today it is exactly the opposite: it is the hospitals that are the big brother and the health centres that are the little brother. Sweden is one of the most medicine-tight countries in the world – there are many doctors per individual – but despite that we have low availability, i.e. difficult to get to a doctor and get hospital treatment. Once we have reached the threshold, however, it is a very good care. We all benefit from good, accessible and strong primary care, and it is very important to prevent any unnecessary hospitalisation. They are a huge problem, and most people who are admitted unnecessarily are older. Madam President, I would like There is an announcement by all the alliance parties, of course with the agreement of the SD, which is breaking in completely open doors. It wants the government to make proposals as a matter of urgency regarding the overall care of the most ill elderly and the multisick chronicles. It believes that a comprehensive approach is needed. But the work is in full swing, so the announcement is just a political move. We say yes to a first step, but we do not want to anticipate the investigation that is under way. An interim report has already been submitted. It's urgent. We cannot grasp such a major and important change in the whole of health care. The Alliance believes that today's proposal is only a nut in the machinery. Actually, there's a nut in the machine. And there are very large and important machines that don't work at all without this little nut. It is therefore not insignificant. The Alliance Group with SD refers to Investigator Stiernstedt's problem description. And none of us object to it. Nor does the new bill that we are debating here today go against it. We fully share the views expressed by Mr Stiernstedt. It is a huge project to redirect the entire health care system. We really need to get into this. But work is in progress. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-715095a36e069253-54	Madam President, I would like Listeners, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working long-term and determinedly to develop and strengthen welfare policy. In international fora, such as the UN and the OECD, there is no doubt today that unequal conditions for citizens cannot be reconciled with successful work in the field of climate change. Welfare must be shared in solidarity and, as necessary, among all citizens. Trust in society and its ability to deal with the major challenges can otherwise be damaged, and citizens' willingness to participate can then be reduced at worst. With growing gaps among citizens, problems arise. However, societies that manage to limit inequality and distribute welfare more in solidarity do indeed have fewer and a larger proportion of citizens. Denmark is the country with the highest rates of taxation and, at the same time, it is the country in which more than 25% of citizens, despite these high rates of taxation, believe that tax increases would not be wrong. You simply feel that you get a lot for what you set aside in the common register. Danes are also the happiest people in the world. I visited last week the OECD theme session in 2017. The message from there was very clear: The growing gaps in the world between countries and internally within countries are the greatest threat to our common ability to deal with the crucial global threats. Greed was pointed out as one of the greatest problems in our societies. Entrepreneurship was also praised at the OECD meeting for the importance it plays in creating the growth necessary to build well-being for all. At the same time, the problems of profit interests in welfare were addressed. The Secretary-General repeatedly pointed out the need for increased political governance and that welfare is not in fact suitable for distribution according to market principles. The right tool for the various tasks was the clear message. I chose to include this recommendation from the OECD meeting in this debate, because I think it is important that we take on board the experience of others. Unfortunately, the debate in Sweden has often been caught up in some kind of political prestige and is very hard hit by a kind of privatisation urge. Madam President, I would like As usual, this debate is about some kind of conflict. This time we are dealing with the conflict between ensuring that welfare is distributed in a solidarity-based manner to citizens and the driving forces that the OECD warns against. When market forces are involved through contracts, procurements or otherwise, the OECD believes that, according to the OECD, priorities other than the solidarity-based distribution approach to welfare follow. So they openly speak of greed as a problem. Madam President, I would like Health care in Sverig e has very good medical results in relation to health care in many other countries. Nevertheless, as is often repeated here from the speaker's seat, we have major challenges ahead, not least for demographic reasons. For eight years, the alliance parties have been in the majority, and then they have chosen to defuse all the motions that I have written about the needs of different chronical groups for increased understanding and systematics when it comes to health care worthy of the name. Madam President, I would like The same politicians now choose in opposition to give the government a mandate in this report to improve the care and care of the most ill elderly and chronically multisick patients. How credible is that? It is precisely these groups that you have said no to for eight years in power when you have rejected my motions. We now have a government that has addressed this particular issue, that is, how we can translate the proposals in the investigation Effective care into parliamentary decisions and government decisions that facilitate the development and coordination of a more equal, accessible and effective healthcare system with a focus on primary care and thus indirectly focusing mainly on patients with chronic diseases. Madam President, I would like During my more than 12 years in Parliament, I cannot recall a more unnecessary announcement than that contained in this report. It is a fine example of breaking open doors, as it is usually called when someone proposes what is already happening. Otherwise, I simply agree with Catharina Bråkenhielm's speech. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-715095a36e069253-73	Madam President, I would like This is a very good proposal – order and order. The elderly and the sick, as well as their relatives, may feel a little safer. It hasn't been like that. I remember when, on occasion, my father and I had to find out for ourselves what would happen after the discharge. It became very messy, because in Stockholm it is also a fragmented healthcare and 150 home care companies. It was a little messy. Now there is a good investigation, Effective care, to be processed. Changing the whole healthcare system is a process. It's about looking at the whole thing. I really want to see a changed health care that stands on a safe bottom plate and that lasts a long time – no hash and slafs. I want to see spending on welfare rather than tax cuts. The purpose of this law is to protect patients and their relatives – to protect good care and a good quality social service for individuals who, after discharge from closed care, need contributions from social services, municipally funded health care or county-funded open care. I very much welcome this. It will be planned – wonderful. I think a lot of people are cheering, even if they probably don't understand the greatness of this. Anyone who has stood with relatives in a hospital and tried to get a sensible plan knows how lumpy it can be. You get to be a torpedo and a coordinator yourself. That's how it's been. The proposal makes it clear that activities in the field of social services and open health care must begin to plan early on for the patient's discharge from inpatient care. Enrolment must be effected within 24 hours. It's great – order and order. The Act also contains provisions on cooperation between county councils and municipalities. That's good. There will be less squabble and specifically slightly safer older people and their relatives and safer sick people. It must also be stated that the new Act contains provisions on how the actions should be planned for the individual after discharge. It has been very problematic here. The law should ensure that a patient with a need for intervention is discharged from the closed care as soon as possible after the treating doctor has assessed that the patient is ready to discharge. There have been multi-problems here, you might say. If, when a patient is enrolled in the closed care, the treating doctor considers that the patient may need intervention from the social services, a planning meeting should be called. It's wonderful! That has certainly not been the case, I would say. If the information is available, the patient should also be provided with information on who is the patient's permanent care contact, the time when coordinated individual planning is to be carried out and information on existing care plans after discharge. That's great. There will also be a meeting. This is a bill that will actually change a lot of people's lives. However, before I make a decision on the whole health care system, I would like to see a whole. You in the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats present your initiatives and movements a little, I think. It's not that you're just secretly together, so to speak, but it's pretty obvious. This is also about the need for efforts for staff, training, strengthening of primary care and logistics between county councils. It is a whole, and I think you should take it a little on your responsibility too. You can exercise, put forward initiatives, etcetera, but you are well aware of this. You do this kind of thing to show that the government, along with the Left Party, is useless. It's your whole mission, no matter what it's about, and you're also doing it very openly-- as if you didn't have a responsibility for what it looks like in healthcare. As if you couldn't see how the care places were emptied! My God, it's a long process that started a long time ago; it didn't start in 2014, I want to let you know. As if you could not have seen this in SKL, where you sat for eight years and ruled! You did not get a lot of benefit from the staff, for example; you cannot say that. I know you are going to have a health debate, so I am already initiating it. You had eight years in the SKL to make sure nurses could get paid to become specialist nurses. Did you do anything about it? You think so? Or like here in Stockholm County, where a project has been launched to shorten working hours so that people can work in health care – have you called for such types of projects and activities? Have you put your fist in the table when it comes to people's working conditions in health care? You can stand here with your tax cuts and new privatisations, backed right into the tile by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, but this is a good proposition. Now you are also prepared, I can see after today's press conference, to put the country in complete disarray. 200 kroner more in tax for people like me, who are high-income earners, and you want to press it! Thank you and hello, you might say. I commend the S, V and MP reservations.
i-715095a36e069253-88	I would like to remind Members of this House that the debate is about cooperation in the discharge of secret health care.
i-715095a36e069253-89	Madam President, I would like After the last two interventions, I myself began to wonder what the debate is actually about, but the subject is indeed collaboration in the discharge from closed health care. I am holding the report up here, and those who see it realise that it is a rather thin product. However, I agree with the previous speaker who has said that it is important in its content. It's good stuff, this... but it's so very, very little. This is the result of the diligent work carried out by the Alliance Government under Christian Democratic leadership in the Committee on Social Affairs. There was a lot to do when we took over the Department of Social Affairs. There were many major structural deficiencies that needed to be addressed. Such measures require both that you enter a government with an idea of where you want to go and that you are prepared to put your efforts into properly investigating how we will get to the structural change that health care needs. We did that work. We started measuring results and measuring queues. What patients had experienced for a long time but that no one had really dared to light up with the flashlight on, we let out in the light, so that we could fix the real shortcomings in health care. We set up an investigation with a very comprehensive mission. The result was the study on effective care presented in January last year. It is a study with many different and very concrete legislative proposals, and this thin report is the small part that the current government has been able to take right up to changing legislation. That is a good thing, and that is something that we in the Alliance naturally support. It is our policy that we have initiated. It was we who saw the needs, and it was we who made sure that the work was started. It is far too little, however. We have heard representatives of the government say: But there is a new investigation going on; it produced an interim report the other day. Yes, it is also a good interim report – it repeats and specifies some of the pre-amendments that came a year and a half ago and that this government, because it went into the Ministry of Social Affairs without an idea of what it wanted to do with Swedish health care, has not yet been able to deliver on. This is serious, because we have shortcomings in our country in terms of health care. They mainly affect the most sick, those with chronic diseases and the elderly. We see how it is in Social Democratically controlled county councils the elderly who have to wait the longest in the emergency room – many times more than ten hours. This is not because they do not have care needs, but because they do not receive care at the right level at the right time. More and more concrete measures are needed from the current government. It is necessary to actually take the ready-made proposals that exist and dare – dare – push them all the way to goal. It has not been possible to do that so far. That is why, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-715095a36e069253-96	Madam President, I would like I'm just wondering about something, Emma. We all agree that Effective Care is a good investigation. Now you should look at how it is to be chiseled out, so to speak. Do you really think that the type of input you have made on this matter manifests something? Don't you think there's a need for a further in-depth dive into these issues to see what kind of bill is going to change? These are big questions. It is about the whole health care system, which in fact – perhaps the only thing we agree on – needs to be changed. We need to strengthen primary care, and we need to see how more care places are to be found. We need more geriatric receptions. There's a lot we need to do. What we do not need, I must add, is more tax cuts. It has created major breaks throughout the welfare system and specifically in the health care sector. I have to ask you, Emma: Do you really think it is responsible to present the kind of initiative that you do? After all, you take the whole committee's view that we should now certainly do something about the whole – without having the whole picture clear on how it should be done in real life. I think it's a weakness when you make that kind of recording. You do it all the time together with the Swedish Democrats; it is only because of the Swedish Democrats that you can do this in various committees. It's very special, I think. I would also like to point out that you were in power for eight years. You also had SKL for eight years. What I see when I look back is not so many attempts to advise on health care, for example, when it comes to ensuring that the staff got better conditions and so on. Why didn't you do anything that was effective during your eight years in SKL? Those were my questions.
i-715095a36e069253-101	Madam President, I would like I will try not to make this a general economic debate, but I would nevertheless like to remind Karin Rågsjö that, under the alliance government, we increased tax revenues. More resources went to welfare, not only overall, but per person in our country, due to increased tax revenues. That is what is important: for us to be able to afford world-class care that benefits everyone, we must have tax revenue. It is not the level of taxes that determines, but how much taxes we get in overall. The proposals we want to stop are those which are destructive and which will reduce the resources for prosperity, which is what will happen if the Left Party gets its way. Now we are talking about the proposal in this report – what is involved in the interaction of discharges from closed healthcare. It is a proposal that we worked out. We are pleased that you are pursuing it, but there is much more that needs to be pursued. There are ready-made legislative proposals that could be taken forward, which affect the most sick elderly people and which affect those with chronic diseases. Strengthening the health guarantee is an example. There are concrete proposals for effective care. This was fulfilled in the proposal that came from the current investigation, but the government has not delivered legislative proposals to this House so that we can make decisions. This is the problem for Swedish healthcare today. We have a government that came into government position with no idea where to go with care. Instead, we come to this House with products dealing with something that is not even a problem – last night we had to debate such a matter. That is where the government has put its resources, and that is why it has not been able to cope with the real challenges of healthcare.
i-715095a36e069253-107	Madam President, I would like I hope we can re-enact the entire health care system. I am talking about a lot of us, because a lot of changes are needed. It is important, among other things, to ensure that staff want to work in, for example, emergency departments, with sensible conditions, and there is a need for resource allocation of a completely different kind than we see today. If we're going to do this – if I'm going to be involved in making that kind of decision – I want an overall picture. I do not want individual legislative proposals in certain areas, but I want the whole picture. That's how conservative I am. I don't just want little plutt things or a little bigger stuff, I want to see a whole thing. I think we need to have the overall picture clear to us if we are to redo health care. What are the county councils going to do? What's the government gonna do? How should primary care be supported? What are we going to do about the empty health centres, which cannot be manned because there are no staff? Staff, I don't think we're gonna get it. Staff can only be obtained by increasing wages and improving working conditions and by allowing staff to go on sensible schedules. That is the kind of thing we have to do. We have to make sure it works. We have 21 county councils that do a little different things-- what are we going to do about it? There are lots of questions. We need to get the whole picture together, and that is not to be achieved with the kind of input you are making together with the Swedish Democrats. As far as taxes are concerned, I have to say, I'm in a lot of trouble. What are we gonna do about the airline tax? Should we do something about the climate? 200 SEK more in taxes for high-income earners – is it problematic? You are making this type of recording together with the Swedish Democrats. You could do nothing of this if you were not connected with the Swedish Democrats in the way you do. Not a single thing you could do. It's become your leverage.
i-715095a36e069253-115	Madam President, I would like Karin Rågsjö moved quite far and wide in this post as well. I will not comment on the harmful taxes, but I am happy to comment on what we are doing about the 21 county councils. We Christian Democrats have seen that this is a major problem when it comes to being able to provide the same good care to all patients throughout the country, wherever you live. We would need greater government responsibility for health care. Of course, I welcome the Left Party and any other party that supports such a move. Unfortunately, this government, along with the Left Party, has not been able to deal with this issue either. It is not possible to do the coordination that would be needed, which would ensure that we receive more equal care throughout the country. Such proposals have been put forward by the Christian Democrats, but the Left Party has voted them down several times so far in this parliamentary term in this House. Even next year, there will be opportunities to vote on these proposals, if the Left Party has now come to realise that this needs to be done. When it comes to the most ill elderly and about the chronically ill, there is a proper preparation basis with many more parts that you could go forward with. This government, supported by the Left Party, has chosen not to do so. This is regrettable. It spends its energy and resources on investigating things that its own expert authorities saw with arguments such as that it has not shown that the problem exists, that it has not shown that it would help anyone and that it has not demonstrated – above all – whether it would have additional harmful effects on patients in need of care. Such matters have been debated several times in this semester in this House. Today we will take a decision to reject such a case. We will also decide if something that we agree on is good.
i-715095a36e069253-122	Madam President, I would like Right now, statistically speaking, multisick Signe and Arne travel from home to the emergency room, because they are in need of care. We know it, and we see it, but we also know that it is not the best care and care. Part of the country is trying to do something about this and to help the multisick elderly to see the whole picture. But we have a responsibility to ensure that it does not differ across the country, but that it applies to all the multisick elderly and all the chronicles. We have this mission. Therefore, it becomes very symptomatic and odd for this government to present a small, small proposal in a larger whole when one, like Catharina Bråkenhielm and others, sees the challenges and sees what needs to change. It is then our mission – at the Government's proposal – to act. If the Government does not make any proposals, the Swedish Parliament will act. We lack national leadership. We lack not only that you see but also that you want to make changes for the multisick elderly and for our chronicles, no matter where you live in the country. Unlike yesterday's debate, most of the consultation bodies are very positive about Effective Care and the investigation. The parties are also in favour of this. The difference here is that you are not making concrete proposals to Parliament and that you are not ready to act. You are not ready to follow up and to make something of the clear challenge that is hitting Signe and Arne and others around the country right now. You could describe it as having presented a nut in a larger machine. However, you leave the machine standing and continuing to roll around, and you think it is the change of the nut that makes a difference. It's great that you've put this new nut in – we approve of this – but we also want to do the other, which is clear and clear, but which must now be put into effect. We want to act. Madam President, I would like The investigator behind Effective Care, Göran Stiernstedt, came to the Riksdag himself and described the need for this. He presented to all members of the Social Affairs Committee that discharge-ready patients are a detail in the collaboration between municipalities and county councils and that the great opportunities for efficiency lie in the overall care of the most multisick elderly. Göran Stiernstedt further said that unnecessary hospital stays, such as what has been described about emergency hospital visits, is a potentially greater problem than discharge is clear and that the large consumers of healthcare need care in a completely new way. Execute my investigation, urged Stiernstedt. I thought this message was quite clear. We therefore chose to put forward concrete proposals to make a difference and to make a workshop. Now the Riksdag will take this decision. Now the government will be required to follow up and do this – to make a difference to Signe and Arne. The most multisick elderly and our chronicles have had to stand back for too long. Now there are not only eyes that have seen, but now we also know how we can make the changes. For example, I can turn to Västra Götaland, where the Green Party chooses to act together with the alliance parties. It is interesting to see that the Environmental Party is acting with the alliance parties in Västra Götaland to make a difference for the multisick elderly. Their concept for the multi-sick elderly shows the following results from the previous year: a 92% reduction in the number of days of care for the multi-sick elderly, an 89% reduction in antal reception visits and an 80% reduction in the number of emergency visits. Signe and Arne in Västra Götaland should feel a lot better from fewer visits but better care. The relatives feel absolutely better. The quality of life has increased for everyone in Signe and Arne's surroundings, and Signe and Arne are happier grandparents. I am also absolutely convinced that health workers feel that they can do an even better than they did yesterday, because they did not take the overall responsibility. That is why the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of the proposals we have tabled, and I would ask you to support the committee's proposal. However, I would like answers to some questions from the government representative Catharina Bråkenhielm in this debate. We know how to tackle the problems and do the same for everyone, regardless of their place of residence in the country. But when will the proposals for Parliament come? What are we waiting for to make a difference? There will be a bill list in September. It's almost the last chance for this government to make a difference. Will the proposals come here this autumn? That, Catharina Bråkenhielm, I think you definitely have a responsibility to answer.
i-715095a36e069253-137	Madam President, I would like I think it is very interesting with this pie throw about who does what and what has not been done. The Moderates have been in government for eight years. Then nothing was delivered. Now they blame the next government and wave a little bit with a thin bill containing some of what we finally started with when this government came to power. Then we started, and then it became a workshop. KD had the power, but absolutely nothing happened. According to SKL, every 20 patients, i.e. five out of one hundred, who are in hospital today are cleared out. The first half of the year there were 212 000 patients who had been treated and who clogged our hospitals, that is, a completely academic hospital full of patients who could not come home. This has been the case over the years with the bourgeois alliance in government power. Nothing happened. You didn't lift a little finger to do anything about this. Of course, it matters a great deal if you get things straight. There was no order in your time. Hospitals were clogged. Let's get to work. We have a bill that is part of what Göran Stiernstedt has investigated. You have to start with a few things. Cecilia Widgren is an expert at using the words Cecilia Widegren and company parties reign in Västra Götaland, my region. Ten percent of the operating rooms are used there. At Kungälv Hospital, for example, ten percent of the time is operated on. It's terrible efficiency. It's terrible. I can't believe it. The answer to the question if we do something is that we do a lot of things. Stiernstedt has delivered an investigation that you ordered. It turned out nothing – no workshop, nothing. We picked up that ball.
i-715095a36e069253-144	Madam President, I would like If you don't want to answer the questions or stick to the subject, you talk about something completely different, and that's exactly what Catharina Bråkenhielm just did. My question was very clear. If we now agree that the proposals are good for strengthening the multisick elderly and chronicles – when will the government present a bill to Parliament? Will it be on the bill list in September? It's almost the last chance for the current government. It's hard to believe the words that come out of you when you don't show action. The reality is this today: island surfacings with discharge-ready patients. The best outcome is the county councils in Stockholm, Kalmar, Blekinge and Halland. Worst outcome has Örebro. We from the alliance parties say it's not good enough. We want everyone to get better help and not only linked to the discharge process, but even more multi-sick elderly people, regardless of where they live in the country, to have the opportunity for better health care. The fact that you choose to vote against such an initiative says a lot about your lack of action to put proposals on the table of Parliament. This is where you can make a difference. The investigation exists, and the consultation bodies agree. They say that you see the challenges, but you are not willing to use all the tools to act forward. Then regions like Västra Götaland choose to go ahead. I listed their results, and I find them extremely telling. I am absolutely convinced that the elderly, relatives and health care professionals in Skaraborg are doing a great deal better after the journey they have made there. You go ahead and use Stiernstedt and Rosén's investigations, because you want to make a difference in people's everyday lives. Catharina Bråkenhielm! Will the proposals be included in the proposal list in September?
i-715095a36e069253-150	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Widegren is now calling on us to catch up on something. Is it the case that the Region of Västra Götaland has taken all the suggestions from Stiernstedt's investigation? Many of the proposals there are based on the fact that it is the county councils that are going to work, not on legislative proposals from here. My question to Cecilia Widegren is: if all legislative proposals are decided, will everything in the investigation be carried out during the year? Is it really a quick workshop so that everything will change in Västra Götaland, our region? I don't believe that for a moment. The answer to your question if we are working on this is of course that we have already started producing here. Anna Nergårdh has been appointed as an investigator, and an interim report has been submitted. So it's on the roll. It's a lot more than you've accomplished. It was zero. Nothing. Of course, there will also be a partial report in the autumn. But first, everything should be clear, because this health care thing is a huge thing. You in the Alliance don't agree. You have a small, small party with you, the KD, who has wanted to nationalise health care. Do the Moderates want that? Do you have a deal? Will it be a nationalization or will it remain as it is now? Answer that, Cecilia Widegren! It's incredibly important. Then Cecilia Widegren always has the tactic of addressing Signe, Arne and others. I can say that Allan and Hulda would feel much better with an S-rule. Then they would have access to health care that we elected representatives are in charge of, and we are not selling it to market forces that make huge profits from healthcare.
i-715095a36e069253-156	Madam President, I would like If the ideological shimmer had made a difference in everyday life, we would not have had any of Europe's longest waiting times and long waiting times in emergency care in S-controlled county councils. Catharina Bråkenhielm once again chose not to answer the question. I asked for an answer linked to the government's proposal. The Alliance government appointed a number of investigations in 2012 and 2013 as a basis for implementing legislative proposals and developing a package of measures for the Riksdag for 2014– 2018. You choose to examine the proposals one more time and feel that they need a different investigation. We believe that the bill list contains concrete proposals that then come to Parliament, so that we elected representatives can discuss, discuss and discuss the proposals. This is missing. You've had three years to present health care reforms. You don't present anything that makes a difference to the everyday lives of the healthcare staff or to the patients. You have challenges in terms of continuity, quality and availability. Those who are most affected now are the multisick elderly and the chronicles, and then you lean back, are satisfied and set up another investigation. That's the answer to what this government is doing.
i-715095a36e069253-160	Madam President, I would like We support the Government's bill presented in the bill, as we believe that a new law is needed for collaboration in the discharge from health care. It is important that patients are well cared for and do not risk getting between the chairs when they are discharged from inpatient care. The purpose of the new Act is to promote good care and quality social services for the patient, who after discharge from closed care needs input from social services, health care or open care. The proposal also means that county councils and municipalities together will establish common guidelines for cooperation and agree on the timing of the municipality's liability and the amounts to be paid. This too is very good and something that we welcome. We also note that the legislative proposal is in line with the plan for future healthcare, where primary care should receive a larger proportion of patients. Nor do we have any objections to a fixed care contact for the patient and that it should be kept after the patient has been discharged from closed care and that coordinated individual planning should be carried out. We welcome the fact that activities in social services and open health care must start planning early on for the patient's discharge from closed care. Madam President, I would like Last week, a report entitled Good and close care was presented, which is an interim report of the study Coordinated development for good and close care. Several further interim reports will be presented before any concrete legislative proposals come to Parliament's table. We recently received an update in the Social Affairs Committee on the state of work in relation to cooperation between municipalities and county councils around individuals. This progress report shows that there are significant differences between different groups regarding procedures for informing the individual about the possibility of a coordinated individual plan. For the multi-sick elderly, the establishment of such a plan has not had an impact. There are also differences between different parts of the country. There are certainly many good explanations for this, but it is clear that this group of elderly and multi-sick people is not getting the support of the principals they need and are entitled to. In the current state of health care, action must be taken both in the short and long term. We Swedish democrats want to strive for and work for equal care throughout the country. That is why we believe that we cannot wait for them, but must act now. We are confident that there will be many proposals in the future on how to improve access to healthcare and primary care. However, at the same time as we allow investigations to take their time to come up with concrete and well-considered decisions, we must act here and now. The fact that we are acting now and in the short term does not mean that we cannot at the same time wait for the proposals and answers of the forthcoming investigations. We must be able to keep these two parallel tracks and thoughts in our heads at the same time. Madam President, I would like For this reason, we support the Alliance's follow-up motion and the call for urgent proposals on the overall care and care of the most ill elderly and multisick chronicles. We have no objections to the proposals contained in the proposal, but at the same time we believe that a holistic approach is needed in accordance with the proposals presented in the report on Effective Care.
i-715095a36e069253-169	Madam President, I would like This is indeed a very interesting debate, and I have to say that I almost applauded Karin Rågsjö when she was up in the speaker's chair. It may not be the responsibility of a centre party to applaud a left-wing party. But she said: This bill will really affect people's lives in the positive direction. Let me tell you about the background to the bill. This is linked to the fact that we have a major problem in Sweden in the contact between county councils and municipalities in relation to the most ill elderly. It is about health care and social services. This is something that we in the Alliance Government paid a lot of attention, especially during the period 2010-2014. A small part of the problem is about the elderly who end up in hospital and who, when they are finished, do not get a place in the home care service or in the nursing home. It is therefore a small part of the problem, which is much larger than that. Now there is a dispute here in the pulpits about who made the proposal: is it the left-wing government's proposal or the Alliance's? I think that those who are interested in this can produce the bill, which is available online. There you can read about the preparation of the case. It then turns out that this was something that was noticed in 2013– 2014, when we had a problem with the law stating a certain number of working days. When it suddenly became very few working days during the Christmas weekend, this meant that the most ill elderly people in our hospitals, not least Karolinska, had to stay for weeks without anything happening. This led the alliance government – it was Göran Hägglund who signed the directive – to write a directive to Göran Stiernstedt and said: Make a proposal that changes this! It is not reasonable that the most ill elderly should be treated in hospital for several weeks and that the municipalities should not bring them home. This is obvious, because in a number of municipalities the elderly do not remain for a single day. Ronneby is usually highlighted as a positive example of this. Other municipalities, on the other hand, have put this into systems. Therefore, the alliance government wrote a directive to Göran Stiernstedt in February 2014 to produce a proposal. This proposal has since been tabled and referred to. Now it has moved on to become a bill that we in Parliament today can decide on. It is just as Karin Rågsjö says: This is a fantastic proposal! It is a proposal ordered by an alliance government because there was a major problem for the most ill elderly, who had to stay in hospital for weeks unnecessarily. It's kind of the way we work in the Alliance. We see a big problem in health care or in care for the elderly, and we come up with proposals that then make a difference, just as Karin Rågsjö says, in people's lives. That is where there will be such a contrast, Madam President. You can listen to the debate we had yesterday in this House. It was a product entirely invented by the left-wing government – the red-green government – that it would be forbidden to sell university hospitals. The University Hospital in Linköping was in the debate. The government believes that you should make a law and say that it is forbidden to sell the University Hospital in Linköping. That is not a problem at all. There, however, the left-wing government is putting all its effort into bringing forward legislative proposals that will then be threshed through both parliament and other things. There you can see the difference in how we deal with the problems. So we fully agree now that the legislative proposals in the proposal we are about to decide on today are very good. But what does the discussion have to do with it? It is true that in the alliance government we saw the problem of the elderly multi-sick people who have gone into the emergency room, been hospitalized and treated, and then the municipalities do not return to the retirement home. We saw this, and we saw that it is a small part of the big problem. The big problem for this group is that we have two different legislations. We have a social services law and we have a health law that doesn't talk to each other at all. When the poor nurse in the home care or nursing home is there before the patient, she has to think: The effort that I intend to do now – is it according to the Social Services Act or the Health Care Act? So we have legislation that is not adapted to the fact that many very seriously ill elderly people are being cared for either at home or in retirement homes today. That is why we in the Alliance Government not only gave a mission to Göran Stiernstedt to find a solution for the pre-treated people who are in hospital, but we also said: Now make sure to come up with a proposal that means that the legislation is adapted to the most ill elderly, that is, an older law! The first thing the Red-Green Government did when it took office was to close this investigation. It was not needed at all, it was meant. This is really what we are now pointing out in the majority of the committee. In this context, the government must take a holistic approach to the social and health services of the most ill elderly. I am surprised when I stand here listening, not least to Catharina Bråkenhielm, who says: We have appointed a new investigator, Anna Nergårdh, and she will certainly look at this. Read the directive, Catharina Bråkenhielm! There is not a word in the directive about solving the problem that the most ill elderly end up in a situation where there are two completely different legislations. What Anna Nergårdh is going to look at is how we organize primary care and health care. It is important to look at it too, because there are indeed major shortcomings there. However, the concern, Catharina Bråkenhielm, is that in the contact between the municipality and county councils and in the gap between social services law and health law there are a number of sick elderly people, above all, who get caught. This is what a committee majority is now proposing and about which a parliament will soon decide: Make sure that you in the government focus on the major problems we have in health care and care for the elderly! Do so instead of devoting yourselves to fighting imaginary windmills such as you have such a fabless to do, as was heard not least in yesterday's debate! In doing so, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal, that is to say that we should do something about the major problem.
i-715095a36e069253-184	Madam President, I would like This will be an interesting debate, Anders. We could discuss healthcare much more than we do. It's all connected, and I see it. That's why I don't think your input here makes a big difference. I want to see a whole thing before I press a button. I want to make some corrections. You were talking about last night's debate and that they're fake windmills and just ridiculous. I don't think so. I don't think it's ridiculous-- I'm going back to yesterday's debate, because it's getting loud and low here-- when you sauce parts of the university hospital into private hands. Not only does the Left Party think so, but 50 professors and researchers at KI, for example, now see large parts of the research disappear because private interests do not invest in research and education and so on. This is not a small question; this is a big question. That's the way it is. When it comes to the elderly and multisickness, this is a huge problem. Only in Stockholm can it take an elderly person 40 hours in the emergency room to get care. So in Stockholm it doesn't look like that. Waiting times have increased markedly. When it comes to older people, it is also about how they live. It would have been good if the number of nursing homes with healthcare had been larger, but very much disappeared when you were in power. I think this is a good reform. I might think that things you say are good, and that's the way it should be. It's a little give and take in politics, and you can't just see everything in black or white. That would be a shame. We have a lot to do in health care, and then we need to see a whole. We must have a bottom sheet to stand on when we make these major changes that we have to make on the basis of the report on Effective Care. I hope that much of Effective Care goes through, because it is needed. Then you also have to look at the 21 county councils. How are they gonna work together? How to unblock synergies? There's a lot to look at.
i-715095a36e069253-190	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö for choosing to take a line. I am trying to narrow this down to the debate that is actually about, namely a problem that we have in the connection between health care and the elderly care of municipalities, that is, social services. There is this proposal that the Alliance Government decided to produce an important part. It's an important but small part. Do not Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party see this much bigger problem? For this vulnerable and rather large group, the most ill elderly, two completely different legislations apply. We have the Health Act here, and we have the Social Services Act there. These laws don't talk to each other at all. If the assistant nurse wants to implement an action based on the Health Care Act, she can decide for herself, but if she sees that there is a greater need for care, she should suddenly call in an aid administrator to look at it. There is a lot to be done, but for me and the Center Party and also the Alliance, it is clear that what we have to start to do is look at the legislation, because that is actually our responsibility. That is what this decision in committee now means. Here are suggestions. There was an investigation going on during the time of the alliance government, which was then quick to close. Reference is now made to Anna Nergårdh's investigation, but it is not at all concerned with this problem. What I wonder is how the Left Party really sees the problem that we in Parliament have caused concern to a very vulnerable group because we have two completely different legislations – the Social Services Act and the Health Act – that do not talk to each other. Now a minority says – thankfully, it is a minority – that you don't have to do anything about it without Anna Nergårdh perhaps looking at it if she gets an additional directive. As far as legislation is concerned, we cannot accept that there are still major concerns. I would like to know specifically how the Left Party views this particular issue, because this is actually our responsibility here in Parliament.
i-715095a36e069253-196	Madam President, I would like You say you want to narrow down the debate, Anders, but you started by talking about completely different things yourself, for example the debate yesterday. That is why I started with it too, but now we have managed to do it. When it comes to health care as a whole, the Left Party wants to see changes on very many levels. It is about legislation, how to build primary care, what to do with specialist care, what to do with university hospitals and what to do with the benefits of welfare. Well, that's the next thing you're going to say, that it's a little puzzling thing you don't want to discuss. I want to see a whole. What are we going to do about this big question? We are constantly discussing this, not only here but also with our county council politicians. What, for example, are we going to do with municipal self-government? How far is it going to go? There are lots of questions that are included in this debate. I want a big bottom plate to stand on before I'm part of that we clubs different decisions. I have the feeling that all this time – I haven't been in Parliament for so long but only three years – it has been significant how many different initiatives and things you have driven here and there and back and forth. It's been high and low, and it's not for the good of things, but it's a little show over it, like to show that this government really hasn't done anything without doing much more. It'll be like in the sandbox in the end, I think. One can think about why things are going so bad for Stockholm, for example. Cecilia from the Moderates said here a moment ago that Stockholm is doing very well. Here older people can sit and wait forever, and there are also 600 places missing – an entire hospital. It's a huge problem, and it's a huge problem all over Sweden. It has been a long time since the beginning of the 21st century. It is also related to this.
i-715095a36e069253-201	Madam President, I would like It will be high and low in this discussion from Karin Rågsjö. I think it would be interesting to see whether the Centre Party and the Left Party could not approach each other a little bit on this particular question, namely: Is there a need for a change of law or not? It's obvious old people are getting hurt. Those who have a great need for care and health care suffer very badly in many places. There are many reasons for this, but one of them is that we are stuck with two different legislations. We see a need to write the law based on reality and the people who are actually concerned. That's what we in the Alliance government started. We told Göran Stiernstedt to look at this with the medically prepared ones that are long in hospital. We have now delivered and can decide on this, but that is not enough. Other legislation must also be reviewed to ensure that the most ill elderly are never allowed to fall between the chairs. I'm not so naive as to think that if we just make sure to write a new older law that can bridge the gap, there will be peace and joy. It's not that simple. What we can do from Parliament's side is at least to make sure that the legislation does not contribute to that there are major problems for the most ill elderly in a situation where there are municipalities here and county councils there and social services teams here and health care teams there. I believe that the Center Party and the Left Party could meet on the issue of the need for a change of law.
i-715095a36e069253-205	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson talks about an older team. He'd love to have an older team, too many older ones get hurt. I think it would mean segregation of people to have such a law. We need legislation for everyone. If you get older, you're not just a patient – you're well human on all other levels as well and don't need specific legislation. In 2006, your government took office. The years went and went, and then it became in 2014 and then it was found that many people get hurt when they go home after being in the hospital and that primary care and hospital care did not work. At that time investigator Göran Stiernstedt was appointed, and he just left the results of his investigation. It is a very good investigation, and we have now had to manage it, as well as a large budget deficit. Of this we will do a workshop. We've started with that and appointed an investigator. That investigator has submitted an interim report that is on the roll. Did Anders W Jonsson and the Center Party want to legislate on the whole package at once without any more investigation than what is now? If so, I find that strange. What about this that I haven't got an answer from the right? I asked Cecilia Widegren a number of questions, but I did not get an answer to one. I also asked the KD about the nationalisation of healthcare. Is that the right's proposal or not? I asked Cecilia Widegren about that. Now I have another part of the right in front of me and ask you the same question, Anders W Jonsson. You've asked me several times what we want to do. My question is: did you want to legislate directly on Stiernstedt's investigation? Was it finished? It is extremely important for me to have an answer to that. What are you criticising us for?
i-715095a36e069253-212	Madam President, I would like I'll try to explain that to Catharina Bråkenhielm. Göran Stiernstedt was appointed to investigate how we would get more effective care. At the same time, the alliance government had identified two other problems. It was about the situation of the most ill elderly, where we saw the need for a common older law. At the same time, we had the problem of the medically treated. In order to get a fast track of this, we chose to give Göran Stiernstedt an additional assignment, on 27 February 2014– if I am not mistaken. We wanted to make a proposal quickly in order to move forward with legislation in this area. For the second part, we set up the Elder investigation. It would look at what changes in legislation are needed to at least prevent the law from tearing apart the most sick older people. Catharina Bråkenhielm seems to believe that Göran Stiernstedt's entire investigation will solve that problem. It's not like that. This was a very small part where he submitted a partial report. It therefore becomes completely incomprehensible, for everyone who is a bit familiar with this, when Catharina Bråkenhielm says that Anna Nergårdh has been appointed to investigate how we will solve this between social services and municipalities and county councils. Go home and read her instructions! There's not a word about municipalities there. There is not a word about social services and care. What Anna Nergårdh is going to do is look at how we can take the parts related to health care and not least primary care in Göran Stiernstedt's investigation and make a workshop out of it. It's something completely different, Catharina Bråkenhielm. That is why my question remains. Why did you shut down the Elder investigation? If you had not done so, we would have had a proposal today for legislation based on the most ill elderly and without this legislative problem. There are two completely different laws with two completely different logics. Why did you close that investigation? Do you not see the need to change the legislation in order to adapt it to reality?
i-715095a36e069253-220	Madam President, I would like We see reality, Anders W Jonsson. That is precisely why we are debating today what hardly any debater touches on this subject. It is about discharge from the hospital to the municipality of residence and the interventions there. It's really important. That's what's going on again. I told you before that 212 000 days of care are completed in hospital and cannot come home because the municipalities have not arranged home health care. That's part of it. The next part is that you shouldn't have to go to the hospital if you don't have to. That's why we need to investigate the role of primary care. If the most ill elderly were given a completely different primary care, they could stay in primary care instead of being hospitalized. This is one of the enormous problems, as Göran Stiernstedt also points out. I've read these materials. I don't think you've really listened to what I've said, or maybe you're deliberately misinterpreting me for good politics. These are two different things. But they work together, because it applies to the same people. The elderly and the multisick are very much in hospital and need very first-line care. They may need a little less hospitalization and hospitalization than they do today. Therefore, it is important to strengthen and change the roles between hospital care, domestic care and primary care – first-line care. Then you can get more care at home and avoid any unnecessary hospitalisation. In this way, we release resources. People get back to their everyday lives faster. And those who need hospitalization come in. This is particularly beneficial for the elderly, but also for others. And the money in public health care is much better spent. We think that is a much better proposal than selling out and privatising. So we stand on different edges, Anders W Jonsson, left wing – right wing. I understand the investigations. And that is why we support this. The county councils also think it is a good proposal and support it. But the Alliance doesn't. Why do you want an announcement about something that you think is good, Anders W Jonsson?
i-715095a36e069253-227	Madam President, I would like I'm not trying to misinterpret anyone deliberately. This bill, on which we are going to decide today, is about the medically prepared. We in the Alliance saw a problem. We set up an investigation. It is now before Parliament's decision. However, we see that this is a much bigger problem when it comes to cooperation between municipalities and county councils. It is about health and social services law and law. The Alliance points to the need to do something legislative too. If I interpret the left hand side correctly, Catharina Bråkenhielm, you mean that Anna Nergårdh's investigation is enough because she is investigating the health care and primary care. And if she does enough there, primary care will work great, and then we don't have very big problems anymore. I also hope that she makes wise and good suggestions. It hasn't really been that way so far. But even if we had a superb primary care system in Sweden, we would continue to have problems with municipalities and county councils having two completely different legislations with two completely different logics that a nurse should apply, at the moment at home with the old and multisick. That is what the committee and soon also the parliament are saying that the government must deal with. There is no investigation today to look at the very big problem. There's an investigation that looks at primary care. That's absolutely right. But as far as this is concerned, as I see it, we have no answers at all from the government. Instead, they choose to find windmills and to ban the privatisation of Linköping hospital and so on. It would be better if the government focused on what is really big problems, namely that the most ill elderly often fall between the chairs today. This is because the government cannot propose legislation on the basis of the problems that people actually have.
i-715095a36e069253-234	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to support the committee's proposal in its entirety and reject the reservation. Being hospitalized is definitely not good, especially if you don't need it. It is not good for the individual patient, not for the hospital staff and not for the system. In short, it is not good for anyone. A large part of the overcrowding problem and the lack of care in Sweden today can be traced to just this – the wrong person in the wrong place at the wrong time. I remember Amanda in particular. It's been a few years now. She spent the last year, roughly, of her life in an eternal journey — back and forth — between the home, the municipal dwelling, and the hospital. For each turn she came home a little more confused, with some new infection, a little more brought, and eventually Amanda's body was no longer able to cope. At 92 years of age, she gave up. Madam President, I would like Overcrowding in hospitals causes a lot of deficiencies when a patient is cared for in a place that does not meet that particular patient's needs. The quality of care is deteriorating, and the risk of damage to health is increasing significantly – almost exponentially. Constant overlays create inefficient and patient-proof care. We see it in county councils after county councils. The limited hospital resources are needed for patients other than those in the beds and are only waiting for discharge. The large number of overcrowdings also make it difficult for healthcare staff to do a good job and a reduced working environment when frustration in everyday life becomes apparent. The solution to the problem lies in part in what we are going to decide on today. But it is also about using the places we have in a more efficient way. What does that mean? It is about smarter staffing, but above all it is about fast and not least safe homes. No finished patient should be kept in a hospital ward only because the home situation is untenable, because of poor or no planning at all between the principals, lack of facilities or anything else that makes homeing impossible at the right time. Yet, Madam President, this happens daily in our country every moment of the day. About 5 percent of all care places in Sweden are occupied by patients who should not be there. It doesn't sound like much, but Cecilia Widegren described how it was in reality in the Västra Götaland region. There is a lot going on now, but at Sahlgrenska University Hospital there were as many as four wards of patients who were just waiting to go home. In my home county Halland, the same calculation exercise shows that there are two wards in the hospitals in Varberg and Halmstad who constantly have hospitalized patients who should not be there. This is why the regions Halland and Västra Götaland have for many years been conducting a Safe Homecoming project. It systematically reviews point after point in order to improve the situation. But of course you get to what Anders W Jonsson so well described, to legislative boundaries and other boundaries that put an end to what you can do yourself. This House must help here. In Västra Götaland they also work horribly systematically with this, and the situation improves day by day. But you get to a point. The current situation is not right with the person lying in bed. It's not fair to others who can't come and get a bed. As I said, this happens all the time in county councils by county councils, region by region. What is the government's response? Well, you're investigating a little bit more. You wait and see if it gets better. The first thing you do is to draw into the freedom of choice, the possibility for patients to go to other places, to other forms of care and so on. Madam President, I would like The fact that patients cannot be prescribed is due to – as has been so well highlighted today – shortcomings in coordination between municipalities and county councils. Individual patients are being squeezed into the main gap because a seamless transition between operations cannot be achieved. There may be a lack of a rehab place, a place in a particular accommodation, a care plan or something else that means that orderly discharge to the home cannot happen. That's why you're still in the hospital. In order to remedy the situation, it must be done systematically, and quite quickly. That is why the announcement is being decided today. Both municipalities and county councils and regions must jointly take responsibility for creating this seamlessness. This applies to what is sometimes referred to as common home planning, perhaps directly at enrollment, improved communication between principals and clearer regulations. It is a long list of things presented in the report on Effective Care, but they are referred to other investigations. There are therefore many elements that need to be developed quickly. The proposal for a new liability law requiring faster repatriation now forces municipalities and county councils to cooperate better, and that is a good thing. It should have been introduced in psychiatry too, and it is a minus that you do not at the same time. But it will lead to an improvement in the situation. But more is needed, and it is needed faster. For example, county councils and municipalities could work together to create more intermediate forms of care, such as housing directly connected to district nurse, medical participation in the home in a completely different way, and more. We know where the problems lie. This is not an investigation. Now it is about action, development and real leadership, which this government lacks. This is of the utmost importance for the sickest patients, for the most vulnerable patients and for all Amandors's sake.
i-715095a36e069253-254	Madam President, I would like Ten minutes is far too short a time to talk about the importance of shipping for Sweden, its enormous potential, and also about the obstacles and challenges to increasing maritime transport. But I'm gonna give it a try. With its long coastline and many well-functioning ports, Sweden is an ideal maritime country – from the geographical perspective. But when it comes to the conditions for Swedish shipping, there are still some things to be desired. I am therefore surprised that colleagues on the red-green side do not support the Alliance's request to strengthen Swedish maritime competitiveness. Maritime transport is an international industry with fierce competition, and there are great values associated with the fact that the Swedish flagged merchant fleet does not decrease. Preferably it should increase, of course. First of all, the Swedish flagged ships are very important as internships for those trained as naval officers and crew in Kalmar and Gothenburg. Secondly, the Swedish flagged vessels contribute to maintaining maritime competence within the country. They are valuable test beds for innovations in the maritime cluster. When we talk about innovations and test beds, I cannot help but mention the company Northern Offshore Services, which operates an ambulance boat in the archipelago around Gothenburg. Patients get help much more effectively, and it costs considerably less than if they were to use a helicopter. Thirdly, Sweden, with reduced shipping, risks losing real power within the IMO, which is the International Maritime Organisation of the United Nations, where the rules on maritime safety and environmental issues are decided. Sweden must continue to be a strong voice in international contexts in order to push the other countries towards better safety and environmental regulations. Our shipping companies are already investing heavily in the use of environmentally friendly fuels such as LNG and methanol, for reduced sulphur and CO2 emissions and for less litter. International obligations that force the other countries to tighten their emission regulations benefit both the environment and the competitiveness of Swedish shipping. The government must be tough when it sits at the table in international negotiations and not just sit quietly and get run over. Our shipping companies are happy to take part in the development, but the rules of the game must be the same for everyone. Madam President, I would like There is a need to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish maritime transport. Action is now required. There are many investigations that have come to the right conclusions, but the government is too slow. Let me give you two examples. The Transport Committee's report on the maritime industry and its competitiveness, which was completed in March 2015, noted that the flagging process is both complex and costly. For example, the formal process associated with the flagging of type vessels can provide fees of SEK 300 000. It's way too expensive. The Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Maritime Aid Delegation reported an investigation recommending a public authority-wide web b based flag-in portal, which should reduce both costs and shorten time. The industry has long asked for the opportunity to only have to turn to one authority, a so-called one-stop shop. The question is when this will become a reality. The second example is compliance with the sulphur directive. Last year, the Committee on Transport and Tourism announced to the government that those who violate the provisions of the sulphur directive will be severely punished. In the absence of effective sanctioning systems, the incentive to comply with the rules is minimal. Already in 2014, the Swedish Transport Agency presented proposals for a new sanction system where a sanction fee would be distributed on site instead of taking the detour via court, which is completely ineffective since international ships do not stay so long in Swedish waters. I now wonder: when will there be an effective system of sanctions for compliance with the sulphur directive? When will the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal become a reality? A comprehensive approach is needed to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish maritime transport. The Swedish Maritime Association's member shipping companies have 50 new ships in order for shipyards around the world. We should improve conditions so that these ships are flagged Swedish. The development of inland waterways and coastal shipping, Madam President, is a prerequisite for more goods to be transported on waterways, which will relieve overloaded roads and railways and reduce CO2 emissions. At the end of 2016, the Swedish Maritime Administration and the Swedish Transport Administration presented the report Analysis of the development potential of inland and coastal shipping in Sweden. The assignment included proposing concrete measures to stimulate and facilitate the use of sea transport between Swedish ports or quays for freight and passenger transport. In brief, the report concludes that comprehensive structural measures are needed to make inland, coastal and short sea shipping competitive. It is not surprising that the price of transport is directly crucial for the purchaser's choice of transport, but also the flexibility, frequency and duration of transport play a major role. In order to make a decisive shift in freight forwarders' choice of transport and the transfer of goods to waterways, cooperation between industry, ports and the state is needed. The report proposes, among other things, that ports review their pricing models and that the Swedish Maritime Administration review its fees for fairways, pilotage and ice mining. The question is when will the government and its authorities propose sharp proposals to promote inland, when maritime and coastal shipping. Madam President, I would like In 2014, the Alliance government changed the focus of maritime aid to include research vessels, tugboats, crane vessels, service vessels for offshore operations, and more. The purpose of the amendment was to improve the conditions of competition for the Swedish shipping industry. Better conditions for Swedish shipping mean that it can develop, grow and have a high rate of innovation. For most shipping companies, maritime subsidies are crucial for them to be able to operate under the Swedish flag. A major problem is that shipping companies cannot be informed in advance whether they are eligible for maritime aid. As a result, they often refrain from registering ships in Sweden. As the system is structured, it is not possible to give notice in advance. On the other hand, the Delegation for Maritime Aid has made proposals on how this can be changed. A rapid change should facilitate increased flag-in. Madam President, I would like I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-715095a36e069253-277	Madam President, I would like Swedish shipping – that sounds good! But will there be any Swedish shipping in 50 years? There is talk of maintenance debts on roads and railways. But who is talking about shipping and maritime infrastructure? Sweden has a unique location with an enormous length of coastline, like an island in the north with over 50 ports under-utilised and capable of increasing volumes in the ports. We know that Swedish flagged ships provide work ashore, and it is said that a job on the lake generates four jobs ashore. Sweden cannot afford to lose more ships to the flag of other countries. In a country like Sweden, with a long coastline and many lakes and rivers, shipping should be the logical, resource efficient and climate-smart alternative for a larger part of domestic freight traffic than it is today. Revision of fairway and pilotage charges is an important part of making ships more competitive with, for example, lorry traffic. Ice mining is today a cost that is taken from the fairway charges, which is not good. As far as imports and exports are concerned, most of the goods go on ships, but in domestic transport only 3% go on water. Compared to the Netherlands, the corresponding figure is 47%. The potential for more domestic transport on Swedish waterways is to say the least, and a shift from land transport to maritime transport reduces both the environmental burden and the problem of congestion. From 16 December 2014, it is possible to build and equip ships in Sweden for so-called inland navigation. The freight is then on Göta River, Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren. So far, so good. But what does the government do to get inland waterway traffic going? We know that the locks in Trollhättan have an absolute life span by 2030, and it is urgent to build new locks if it is at all to be able to walk ships from Lake Vänern to Gothenburg. Every year 1.6 million tons of goods are transported across Lake Vänern through the locks in Trollhätte Canal and down to Gothenburg. That's 50 000 trucks. If we are forced to close the Göta River, the goods will instead be transported on the road, because the railway does not have that capacity today. Inland shipping must be seen as a new mode of transport that competes with road transport in a different way from traditional shipping. The transport of goods by sea, for example to or from the large ports and through the country by sea, has great potential to grow. Already this year 2 million tonnes of goods are expected to be transported on Lake Vänern. However, the transfer of goods from road to shipping does not happen simply by wishing to do so; it must act politically. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, we Swedish democrats believe that shipping should be promoted through incentives and reliefs in or the removal of fairway charges for inland and coastal shipping and that ice mining should not be financed through fairway charges. We also believe that the government should investigate the possibility of piloting inland navigation. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 4.
i-715095a36e069253-286	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Anna Johansson, Minister Per Bolund and Minister Peter Eriksson. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility. In view of the questioners who have been notified and the late change of government, I would urge Members to perhaps also put a question to Minister Per Bolund.
i-715095a36e069253-288	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister Baylan. The government's energy policy leads to the closure of reactors, which in turn leads to a shortage of electricity in southern Sweden. I note that, among other things, Skåne, which belongs to the so-called energy area 4, already pays a higher price than the rest of the country for its energy.
i-715095a36e069253-291	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with a correction and some facts. Sweden has a large electricity surplus, which we are exporting today mainly to our neighbour Finland. Even with the four announced closures of nuclear reactors both in Oskarshamn and in Ringhals, the forecast from our expert authorities is that we will have a continued electricity surplus. We will continue to be electric exporters. Camilla Mårtense's question is very relevant in terms of different price areas. Price areas were introduced under the previous bourgeois government because Denmark complained to the Commission. Is that reasonable? Basically, my principle is that we should have an electricity price area in Sweden. However, given the rules that exist today, we are not there. I would like us to have an electricity price area in the long run. This presupposes that we continue to expand capacity so that there is no reason for the European Commission to have views on how many electricity price areas we have in our country. An electricity price in the country is preferable.
i-715095a36e069253-294	Mr President, I would like to The electrical deficiency in southern Sweden is real. Cold winter days are becoming clear that we would have needed more reactors running that could provide us with fossil-fuel-free energy. Instead, we import fossil energy. The alternative is that we have to start the oil power plant in Karlshamn. How does the Government think this goes with the vision of reducing the use of fossil energy?
i-715095a36e069253-295	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are outside the energy policy agreement of last summer, which now gradually becomes a workshop and a reality. Today there will be a debate on some of it. The basis for this is that we should be able to guarantee all our citizens electricity at competitive prices. We are doing so today, and we will also do so in the future thanks to cross-block cooperation here in Parliament. I regret that the Liberals are not part of this.
i-715095a36e069253-297	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. It concerns what the government intends to do to improve the situation of tenants who are at risk of not being able to afford to stay in their apartments after renovation. We politicians often talk about taking people's concerns seriously. Not least after Trumps's success in the United States, it has become a recurring slogan. When I worked as a lawyer at the Tenants' Association in Uppsala, I looked after those who opposed renovation. They did so because they saw that they risked not being able to afford to stay, forced to move and change neighborhoods. It was a huge worry, which I think deserves to be taken seriously. I would like an answer to that question.
i-715095a36e069253-300	Mr President, I would like to This is a real problem. It is sometimes the case that you renovate for the right amount of money, and rents are increased to a large extent. This means that not everyone feels that they can stay. That is one of the reasons why we have had an investigation dealing with this particular area. It has recently made its proposals. There are a number of different proposals in this area. I believe that the investigation is currently being referred, and it will be prepared in the Government Office. Only then will the government decide whether we are prepared to make changes in this area. I think that one should look at, for example, the possibilities to separate the renovation levels and give tenants more opportunity to participate and influence. Maybe that'd be good.
i-715095a36e069253-303	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little curious. You talk about influence and that you can have different levels. But the fundamental issue is the economy of rental housing. Is the government prepared to also look at the overall functioning of the market? Small deviations in standard can have an enormous impact on renting. Is that reasonable?
i-715095a36e069253-304	Mr President, I would like to Basically, it is the property owners who own the properties that have the right to invest in them. Sometimes it gets higher and sometimes there are lower costs for it. In the end, it will land on the tenants. As I said, we have an investigation to see if you can strengthen the tenants' position in the market and the ability to influence the outcome. We will take a stand when that day comes.
i-715095a36e069253-307	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Ibrahim Baylan, who answers general policy questions today. Since the government took office, Sweden and Swedish companies have seen a series of tax increases and new taxes alongside a number of new regulations. During the days, a survey was also released in which Swedish companies answered the question: What summary assessment do you want to give the business environment in Sweden? The result was rather disappointing. It was the worst since the measurements started. It should reasonably be troubling at a time when we need many new jobs for many unemployed people going to the labour market.
i-715095a36e069253-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Fransson, for a very adequate and important question. Reality and statistics can sometimes be the same but not always. The reality, Josef Fransson, is that over the last two and a half years we have 200 000 more people going to work. The reality is that the Swedish companies and the Swedish business community are doing very well. This is reflected, not least, by the fact that we now have an increasingly high monthly valuation of the Swedish business sector, not least on the stock exchange. It is so mild that you may even have cause for concern. The government will continue to focus on combating unemployment. We will do so because it is our basic view that it is the road to freedom, both for the individual and for our society. Sure, you can always refer to statistics of various kinds. Of course, we will continue to work to improve the climate in our country. But one must also see that the Swedish business community is doing very well. This must be taken with it – although the Swedish Democrats are reluctant to see positive trends.
i-715095a36e069253-314	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is not entirely unfamiliar that we are in a boom, and the fact that more people have come to work is a rather natural consequence of the fact that we have become very many more inhabitants of this country. I hope it keeps up, otherwise it would be very bad. But now, at least if the government is allowed to decide, there will also be a new kilometre tax on good Swedish hauliers when they transport goods on the world market. There is a new tax on electronics that means that people will start ordering from abroad instead of shopping in Sweden. How does this improve Sweden's climate?
i-715095a36e069253-316	Mr President, I would like to Josef Fransson asks about Sweden's work with the climate. Sweden is in many ways a model, and we are that because we have taken action. The measures are not always received with open arms, but once they are implemented and the Swedish business community works to become more efficient, it often has a strong impact on our competitiveness and our ability to assert ourselves internationally. It will also have to do with these measures.
i-715095a36e069253-319	Mr President, I would like to I'm gonna ask the housing minister a question. We can see that we have a housing shortage in 255 out of 290 municipalities. This is an increase of 14 since last year. We have exclusion areas where less than half of the residents go to work. We will have even more new arrivals who have been granted a residence permit, a group where very many do not go to work. So we have very many people with low payability. In addition, municipalities find it difficult to find good housing. We know that EBO is increasing and thus also the overcrowding of many families. As an onion on the salmon, we have received the report that young people in Sweden remain at home longer and longer. On this basis, I would like to hear what the Minister for Housing is thinking of solutions, especially for those with small wallets.
i-715095a36e069253-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. My assessment is that we have a large housing shortage in Sweden – it has been built up for a long time – and that the best thing to do is to build new homes. You don't find housing; you build housing. The fact is that today we are building which we have not built in many decades. Not since the days of the million-dollar program have we built so much. This change has taken place in a short time. The first quarter of this year began the construction of over 21,000 apartments. The first quarter of 2014 was only a third as many. This is the most important thing we can do in Sweden – to build more homes. The second major issue is the major investment aid that the government is investing in in order to obtain affordable housing. It would be very good if we could get support for it from the opposition.
i-715095a36e069253-330	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Housing. I can see that a great deal is being built. But let us agree that what is being built today cannot be demanded of those with very small wallets who have no income. The municipalities are currently working on many temporary solutions that are both expensive and may not be the best housing. The Minister has a tendency to highlight the subsidies, which we know is being used to an incredibly low extent – in Stockholm not at all. There is no solution, so what is the Minister's solution?
i-715095a36e069253-334	Mr President, I would like to The question can also be asked whether the opposition has a solution other than trying to remove the efforts made by the government. We are now investing heavily in student and elderly housing as well as rental housing in general. It starts this year 2,800 student housing in Stockholm, and that is several hundred per cent more than during the previous term of office. We build old-age housing to a large extent, but also rental housing throughout the country. This can also be done in Stockholm, but so far this policy has not been chosen.
i-715095a36e069253-337	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Energy Baylan. On Monday evening there was a big meeting in my hometown, at the People's House in Nybro, about the construction of a 400 kilovolt power line. I know that the Government is well aware of the problems surrounding this. This winter, the Swedish National Audit Office has reported on the operations of Swedish power networks, a report that the government has responded to, with many critical views on how the operations work. This report has been considered in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and will be announced to the government on the subject – or requirement – independent socio-economic review of the objects and projects that Swedish power networks intend to implement. My question to the Government is: In what way will the Government very quickly ensure that this announcement is translated into an instruction to the Swedish power grid? I believe that it is extremely important for us to gain a better understanding of the need for an extended network that the Government has previously talked about.
i-715095a36e069253-342	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for a relevant question! It concerns an important part of our infrastructure, namely the one which transfers the electricity on which our whole society depends. This is indeed how Anders Åkesson points out that the Swedish National Audit Office has come up with this criticism and that the government has replied with a letter. In this we have felt that this should be done. That is why – not least when we agree in Parliament on this; we are quite united in the report – we will come forward with this proposal, and we will do so in the near future. This means that we will have a further focus on socio-economic assessments when it is to be expanded. We should be aware of that. That is an important aspect.
i-715095a36e069253-346	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we agree, the Government and I, on the need for independent socio-economic analysis of the projects that Swedish power networks have to implement. But my question was: Will the Government quickly translate this announcement into new instructions to the Swedish Power Network?
i-715095a36e069253-348	Mr President, I would like to Since the Ministry of Environment and Energy has already been working on the question for a long time, the answer is absolutely yes. It will come faster than one might suspect, and it is for the simple reason that we have had a plan to do just that.
i-715095a36e069253-349	Mr President, I would like to It is important that everyone can travel in Sweden, whether they have a disability or not. I have asked Minister Anna Johansson a written question about how to travel by night train to Norrland if you use a wheelchair and get an answer that unfortunately is fake news. The Government has told me that the operator should have a wheelchair lift on the night train. I'm afraid that's not true. The question is how the answer to me can be so wrong. I know the answer is wrong because I recently travelled by night train with a fellow traveller using a wheelchair. That is why I asked the written question. The reality is therefore not consistent with the answer. Then the question is: who is lacking in the control of the operator's compliance with the agreement? In the answer to me from the Government, it says that the Swedish Transport Administration has answered that there is an agreement that there should be wheelchair lifts on the trains, but since there is no such thing as my question to the Government: How do you check that the agreements are complied with, and does the government have control of the reality?
i-715095a36e069253-353	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue, because it is ultimately about the transport policy objectives to meet the need for good accessibility for all people and for Swedish industry throughout the country. This also applies, of course, to people with various disabilities. What was stated in the answer to the Member of Parliament was that it is the operators who take on the responsibility in this agreement to ensure that there are wheelchair lifts. The answer is therefore quite clear: it is the operator who has the full responsibility. If it doesn't work– there may also be other things that you feel don't work– it's good to report it. Then the Finnish Transport Agency, which is the other contracting party, must ensure that the operators live up to the responsibility they have assumed.
i-715095a36e069253-356	Mr President, I would like to The reality is that there are no wheelchair lifts on all night trains to Norrland; the agreement is being violated. According to the staff I spoke to on the train I was on, this is a recurring problem. Had the Government and her officials Googled, it would have been seen that this is a major and recurring problem. It is the government that governs Sweden and commissions the Swedish Transport Administration, and it is of course deeply unfortunate that the Swedish Transport Administration does not review compliance with the agreements.
i-715095a36e069253-358	Mr President, I would like to As I said, if there is a contract that says that you should be able to travel in a wheelchair, you should of course also be able to do so. When this has failed, you need to ensure that the operator, by means of a wheelchair lift or in some other way, ensures that even those who have a disability can accompany the trains where it is stated in the agreement that this should be possible; that is what is important here. This may involve installing wheelchair lifts or other measures. But, of course, it is important to ensure that the agreements that exist are also complied with by the operators. This is part of their commitment.
i-715095a36e069253-361	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. We previously had a question about the investigation into the renovation of rental apartments that the government received a few weeks ago. What the investigation is missing is the new technology used by some of the landlords today, namely that you go in and renovate when someone moves out, i.e. in empty apartments. In this way you go around the dialogue you should have with the tenants. The big problem that I want to highlight to the Minister for Housing is that what happens when you only renovate apartments is that you do not replace the tribes. So the technical lifetime is still as short as it was; the only thing that happens is that you have changed certain things inside the apartment. This is a huge waste of resources, because when you then have to change the tribes you still have to tear out the kitchen and bathroom. How does the Minister of Housing view this way of renovating, which I mean is a huge waste of resources?
i-715095a36e069253-365	Mr President, I would like to I don't think we should go in and decide how individual property owners will renovate their apartments. However, it is of course important that we ensure that the renovations of the properties are carried out in public utilities, which are municipally owned. The owners of private properties themselves have a responsibility to manage and maintain them so that they do not lose value or become impossible to use as housing in the longer term.
i-715095a36e069253-366	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Minister for Housing underestimates the great problem that arises. Often there are hosts who buy up the properties and want quite fast money. They do individual renovations in the empty apartments and receive the increase in value and cash flow. Then they leave the property and sell it to someone else. We are in the process of building a community, so just to say that we should not interfere in this, I think is a very dangerous way to go. I think it is important that we guarantee the lifetime of these properties.
i-715095a36e069253-368	Mr President, I would like to I can share the concerns about quick cuts in the real estate market. There may be a problem with blowing up the values and this leads to significantly increased rental levels, which more people cannot cope with. This exacerbates segregation and puts many people outside the housing market. But I am doubtful that we should go in and regulate exactly what to do and when and in what way renovations should be done.
i-715095a36e069253-371	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Baylan. The government has presented a major initiative this week to strengthen health care and care. A total of at least 5 new billion will be added to municipalities and county councils from next year's budget. The previous welfare billions had the focus on the municipal sector, but this time it is, if I understood correctly, county councils and health care that are at the centre. Of the 5 new billion, 3 will go to health care, and 2 billion will go specifically to good working conditions and developed working methods for health care staff. It's really exciting to hear this, but I'd like to know a little more. Can the Government develop how these 2 billion are supposed to be used?
i-715095a36e069253-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kristina Nilsson, for the question. After all, medical care is a very central issue for us and a central part of our well-being. I think everyone understands how important health is to all the people of our country. We have a healthcare system that is capable of curing more and more diseases, but it also means that there will be a constant need to expand it and strengthen it with resources. Therefore, now that we have been able to turn deficits into surpluses, we give priority to investments in our welfare. We already have 10 welfare billions to municipalities and county councils; we are now following up with another 5. The SEK 3 billion that Kristina Nilsson is talking about, aimed at county councils, go both to shorten healthcare queues and increase accessibility and to ensure that health care is strengthened locally, depending on what you need. If it is strengthening the human resources situation and staffing and improving the conditions for staff, it should be possible to do so with these resources. For this government, strengthening and investing in the common – our welfare and our healthcare – is always preferable to tax cuts.
i-715095a36e069253-378	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. One of my heart issues has always been that of gaps in society, and the health gap is part of it. It's about a lot of things, not just medical care. For example, it can also be what kind of growing-up conditions you have, that there are jobs and everything else associated with this. I know that the Government is deeply involved in this work, and I would like the Government to tell us something more about how things are going.
i-715095a36e069253-380	Mr President, I would like to If you get sick, you obviously need medical care so that you get back on your feet and have a good life. But before that, it is of course important that we continue with preventive work. It should be done in school through more movement; the government has just presented new proposals to get schoolchildren going. In many of our sports associations, we must ensure that we turn around widely. In this way, people can have a healthy life and perhaps avoid health care. Even if it's good, hopefully you don't have to go there.
i-715095a36e069253-382	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. Right now, more housing is being built than in a very long time. In 2016, 42,000 new dwellings were completed and a total of 62,000 were started. The forecast from Boverket shows that the figure will only increase in the coming years. I think that a substantial increase in housing is good; that means that more people will get a place to live. On the other hand, anxiety grows a little when things go this fast. My concern and the question I would like to ask Peter Eriksson is about how to ensure that everything that is being built is also demanded – that the rents become reasonable so that people can actually afford to live where we build. Otherwise, we can soon stand with a population that people cannot demand.
i-715095a36e069253-385	Mr President, I would like to This is very close to the issue we discussed recently: are we building the right housing, and are we building at reasonable prices? I think it is right to have that concern today. I think we would have to build more housing at reasonable cost. It is possible to build at lower costs. A number of municipalities have done so, and a number of companies are now investing in building a little more industrialized but also in using state investment aid to bring down rental levels. This also puts pressure on costs; it is quite obvious. For those who have received the investment aid during the first six months of their existence, we see that they lead to lower costs because the return is that the rent should be reduced to a certain level. I would like to call on municipalities and utilities and private companies to make even greater use of this opportunity.
i-715095a36e069253-388	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think this is a problem we need to talk about and lift. We cannot stand with a population in which people cannot afford to live. Another thing that can easily be ironed on the foot when it goes this fast is quality; it concerns the sustainability aspect, people's living environment and the environment. Therefore, I would also like to take the opportunity to ask Peter Eriksson how he ensures that everything that is being built will be good and sustainable in the future, both the houses we build and the surrounding environments.
i-715095a36e069253-390	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, also an important issue. There's a risk when you build fast. We also see that there is a great lack of competence in large parts of the construction industry. You miss important things and carelessly or build in a way that will cause problems later. I tend to try to bring this to the attention of the industry. But we are also looking at the possibility of tightening up legislation in this area.
i-715095a36e069253-393	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister for Housing about the failed housing subsidies. Today's industry reports that building subsidies have provided little housing. The major construction companies reject all the construction subsidies. In principle, only municipal housing companies in sosse-controlled municipalities receive the aid. In Stockholm there is not a single apartment to be built with this support. In the past, Mehmet Kaplan and the government claimed that the construction subsidies would provide 15 000 more housing. You don't even dare claim it yourself anymore. Now that the flop is a fact, however, Peter Eriksson believes that it will provide lower rents for apartments that would still be built. This was already known by the Green Party in 2012, when it wrote a report on a long-term sustainable policy to deal with the housing shortage. In it, the Green Party writes that housing subsidies are very expensive, are not demanded by those who build and risk having cost-driven and distortive effects on the market. ..................................................... The Green Party was right in 2012 and wrong today. My question is therefore: why do you subsidise rich developers rather than higher housing allowances for pensioners and single parents?
i-715095a36e069253-397	Mr President, I would like to I think it is right that the report states that there is a risk that this type of subsidy may be cost-driven. That is precisely why we have constructed the investment aid we have today in a different way than before. The structure means that you get a downward pressure on costs instead of upwards. That's a very important difference. It is good that Robert Hannah is raising this issue, because I would like many more utilities and private companies to look at this construction. It admits that good housing can be built at reasonable rents and reduced costs. It's a return – lower rent for 15 years – but it also means an advantage for all those people who don't have a large wallet and want to enter the housing market.
i-715095a36e069253-399	Mr President, I would like to I think the Minister for Housing was in on the right answer to this question when he spoke about serially manufactured houses before. It is by changing the legislation, so that we get more fast-produced houses, that we get the cost down– not by throwing away SEK 6 billion a year to rich developers who don't even want the money. While you spend 6 billion each year on rich developers who do not want the money, Liberals add 3.6 billion to increased housing allowances for poor pensioners and single parents. They're the ones who need the money, not the rich developers.
i-715095a36e069253-401	Mr President, I would like to Frankly, Robert Hannah: I don't mind if rich developers produce homes that mean you get lower rents and good housing. That is a good thing, and they may well get the support of the government to find out. The problem today is that while we are building a lot of homes, they are a little too expensive. They're for us who have plenty of money. If rich developers want to build homes with lower rents, they are welcome.
i-715095a36e069253-404	Mr President, I would like to The number of residential areas classified by the police as particularly vulnerable has, perhaps not unexpectedly, increased from 15 to 23 from the previous measurement. In order for an area to be classified as particularly vulnerable, it must meet a number of criteria: parallel social structures, difficulties for the police in fulfilling their mission, the inability of the population to participate in legal proceedings, proximity to other vulnerable areas and violent religious extremism. Of course, dealing with these areas requires a police effort of the magnitude proposed by the Swedish Democrats. There the government has failed. However, in order to ensure that these areas do not become more numerous, we need to have a basic understanding of the factors which form the basis for their emergence at all. Ibrahim Baylan, what conditions do you consider to be the basis for the creation in some areas of parallel social structures and sympathy for violent religious extremism?
i-715095a36e069253-407	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Adam Marttinen, for the question! That is an important issue. Crimes and the causes of crime must be combated, regardless of where they are located, regardless of whether it is in Parliament's corridors or in our suburbs. It's a very important principle. The principles of the rule of law apply, and they apply throughout our country. That is why this government has strengthened the judicial system, reinforced the penalties and gradually continues to strengthen the police system, both through more police officers and more resources for the police, as well as more police workers. If you, as a citizen, become a victim of crime or see a crime and get no response when you call, it is not good for the legitimacy of our society. Nor is it good for the opportunity to get someone to stand up and testify against any criminals. That is why we will continue this work. We will do so for the simple reason that it is central to the whole of our community.
i-715095a36e069253-410	Mr President, I would like to I think the vast majority agree with the Swedish Democrats that violent religious extremism is largely an imported problem due to a irresponsible immigration policy. Parallel social structures have been able to emerge through a naive belief in the multicultural development of society. When every point that has gone wrong is so clearly linked to a social democratic responsibility, my somewhat sporty final question to our Social Democratic Minister is: How does it feel?
i-715095a36e069253-411	Mr President, I would like to I'm very proud of our society. Not because it is perfect or because we lack problems and shortcomings, but because we have gradually made sure that Sweden is a good country to live in. That does not mean that we have no problems. Adam Marttinen points to violent extremism. That's what we're gonna fight. We're here to fight crime. But if you are to do it with credibility, you also have to sweep your own door. Today there was another report on a Swedish-democratic Member of Parliament sentenced to one year's imprisonment. Sweep in front of your own door! Then it will also be more credible.
i-715095a36e069253-413	Mr President, I would like to The tightest conditions on the labour market are one of the priorities of the Social Democrats. Every person working should be entitled to a fair salary and good working conditions. This obviously also applies to those who work temporarily in Sweden, such as lorry drivers from other EU countries. The European Commission has recently presented its proposal for a new road package, which proposes, among other things, tougher action against so-called letterbox companies and changes in the rules on how long a foreign company is allowed to drive in another EU country, what is commonly referred to as cabotage rules in industry languages. To this we will have to come back a little later this year. But at the beginning of June, the Swedish Government made a decision to clarify the rules on cabotage in Sweden. My question to Minister Anna Johansson is whether she can explain a little more about what this decision means for the work for more order and order on our roads.
i-715095a36e069253-416	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important question. It is ultimately about confidence in how the labour market works, how the open market works and what order we should have in the entire Swedish labour market. Professional drivers are a vulnerable group. Often they are also exposed to very rough public procurement. That is why it is very important that we now have legislation that applies to it. Through Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, we have referred to a DS which is about the Posting of Workers Directive also applying to professional drivers. It's a very important part. We have decided on fines. We have decided on the possibility of squeezing, which means that we must not continue driving the car. When we have decided on rules, we have seen that they have not really been used as the idea was. Therefore, from 17 July this year, it will be easier to trample cars for various types of infringements.
i-715095a36e069253-418	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, the government has undeniably done a great deal to counteract unsound competition. What further areas of the haulage industry does the Government think need to be reviewed in order to achieve even more order and order on our roads?
i-715095a36e069253-419	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue on which we will continue to work in full force. We see that it is completely untenable when drivers live in their cars without access to toilets and are exploited by less well-calculated employers. It is a problem not only for them but for our whole society. Therefore, there will be a continued focus on this. Whoever orders a shipment has a responsibility. We want to see if we can strengthen that responsibility. We need to review the regulatory framework at European level and work towards better rules there, but we also need to do more at home and ensure that compliance increases.
i-715095a36e069253-421	Mr President, I would like to It is very important that property owners have real opportunities to keep their homes well maintained and functioning over time by being able to do renovations. One such renovation is energy efficiency. I am very concerned that the proposals that make it more difficult are being praised so much in this House. Like the Center Party, the government in which Peter Eriksson is Minister of Housing has set aside money to increase energy efficiency in housing and promote sustainability in housing construction. In the beginning, the assignment was given to shop for an information centre for sustainable construction with the funding available in the budget for 2017 and 2018. There has been no request to this day. It does not look like an information centre will be in place by the end of 2017. The question to Peter Eriksson is: Why is it taking so long? When can the construction industry and property owners expect to have someone to turn to for information on how to renovate and build housing and premises using passive house technology?
i-715095a36e069253-424	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we have set aside special money to develop a forum for sustainable construction. It's now at Boverket. According to my experience, this issue will be resolved shortly, so that this project can be started very soon.
i-715095a36e069253-425	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for your answer! This means clearly that such an information centre will not start in 2017. And all the money, 10 million, will freeze in. Boverket was also commissioned to develop a Swedish definition of near-zero energy buildings. The proposal has been out for a referral and has received criticism that it does not focus enough on building houses so that as little purchased energy as possible is used. The operators of the construction industry are kept in doubt about what will apply. Is the Minister satisfied with this?
i-715095a36e069253-427	Mr President, I would like to I am unhappy that it took a very long time to get this zero energy directive out for decision. This meant in practice that Sweden was probably the last country in Europe to adopt it. This should have been done already during the last parliamentary term. But it took way too long. This was probably due both to political reasons and to the fact that authorities did not give priority to the issue. But now I'm counting on it to go faster.
i-715095a36e069253-429	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Enterprise Board has asked thousands of entrepreneurs in Sweden how they view the conditions for starting and running businesses. Two out of three say that it has become much more complicated and more difficult to start and run companies in Sweden in the last two years. And 1 percent, that is one in a hundred, says it has become easier. It is a clear understatement to this government, and it is perfectly reasonable to look at some of the rather bad proposals that it has and has made. It is about making it more expensive to hire and about deteriorations in RUT and ROT. It is a discussion about air tax, mileage tax and other areas.
i-715095a36e069253-431	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered, for an important question! We have discussed this before. Of course I'm glad we have entrepreneurs who are eager. I also understand that we naturally want to be able to operate as efficiently as possible. But also Lars Helmered and his party should have some humility in that it's one thing to say that we should make it easier – that's what the previous government said – and that it's a completely different thing when going through the rules. What is to be removed? There are very few food requirements, different efficiency requirements and other things that have been added by chance. I fully understand that you want it to be easier to run your business. Of course, we will do our best to help. Having said that, one must still be able to see: How is it going in reality? Yes, Swedish business is doing very well. We have more and more jobs in the Swedish business community. One of the perhaps most important tasks for us as politicians is to ensure that there is more competence. 100 000 posts are not currently filled precisely because the right skills are lacking.
i-715095a36e069253-435	Mr President, I would like to The right thing is that the economy is tough on very well in Sweden. It has effects on jobs and on companies in Sweden. Right is also: When Prime Minister Löfven was an opposition leader, he made clear promises that he has not been able to live up to. We see the result now when two out of three entrepreneurs say that it has become more complicated and more difficult. Only one in a hundred says it has become easier. In another survey, eight out of ten entrepreneurs expressed little or no confidence in the government's business improvement efforts. Then I wonder: Is Ibrahim Baylan satisfied with the rating that the entrepreneurs give him and the government?
i-715095a36e069253-438	Mr President, I would like to The development is moving in the right direction, Lars Helmered, but I am not satisfied. I am pleased that we are getting more and more people to work. I am pleased that the Swedish business community is doing well. But we're gonna get back to work. And grades should always work to improve. That's definitely the way it is. But you should also remember one thing. It was not exultation and sounding during the bourgeois period either. It is in the nature of things that entrepreneurs always want to drive their business forward. That's good. It's good for them, and it's good for Sweden.
i-715095a36e069253-440	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. The Government's active housing policy has enabled more housing to be built today. It is on a level that we have not seen for a very long time. That's good. The housing shortage is a major social problem, and the solution is to build more housing. At the same time, we see that the majority of construction companies indicate that the main obstacle to growth is labour shortages. Obviously we have a matching problem, because on the one hand we have people looking for jobs and on the other hand we have construction companies that need to hire more. At the same time, we need to build more housing. There are great social benefits here if the right measures are introduced.
i-715095a36e069253-443	Mr President, I would like to It is true that by far the biggest obstacle to increased construction experienced by companies today is the lack of skills. It is not surprising when we increase the rate of construction by several hundred percent in a few years. The lack of competence concerns everything from engineers to architects, carpenters and plumbers – the entire chain of actors in the construction industry. Here's a big problem. The Regerin gene works intensively on it. Last autumn, I appointed two investigators who made their proposals in December. This year we have come up with new agreements in the field of construction and for those who work with the wood industry. It is about developing systems to bring in more staff, an easier way to get into the industry without the need for long-term skills and long-term training.
i-715095a36e069253-445	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the government is giving priority to this issue. If this is by far the biggest obstacle for housing companies today – when it comes to building more homes – it is an issue that needs to be given priority as number one. Nevertheless, I would like to hear the Minister for Housing explain how things are going in practice. Are there any ways to speed up the process so that more people get into work and we can get more housing?
i-715095a36e069253-447	Mr President, I would like to I did not quite finish my last speech. We are working very hard on this issue. We are now working on the budget and are looking at: Can we do more to increase the number of trained surveyors, architects, engineers and a number of other professions? But I think perhaps the most important thing is what is happening in industry today. There we have got systems that will make it easier to bring in considerably more people faster, without a long period of training.
i-715095a36e069253-449	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Through SVT, among other things, we have learned in recent days that the number of women and girls who have been grafted into sex has increased significantly in Sweden. According to SVT, it is very likely to be many times more than estimated. To be sexually grafted means that you get parts of your genital area cut away. Then sewn together so that urine and menstruation can barely get through. This is done without stunning. Here in Sweden, female genital mutilation was banned in 1982 – thank God! But it still continues here. This is nothing new for Sweden. It is also an important issue when it comes to human rights violations.
i-715095a36e069253-453	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sara-Lena-Lena Bjälkö, for a very important and highly topical issue! This behaviour, the very perception and the assessment that this would be something good, is very barbaric and medieval. We shall, of course, fight that, both through information and by making it clear that this is illegal in our country. The government has quite recently decided and presented a strategy against violence against women and also honour violence and this type of behaviour. I think it is important that we have that clarity, but that is not enough. I also believe that through the school we must work very closely with the student health services and get close to these families. It should be clear and we should help those girls who are at risk of this misery. Otherwise, we risk having repeated discussions on this, and that is not acceptable. It's a failure of society.
i-715095a36e069253-457	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. In two years, the number of women who have been mammoth in Sweden has gone from an estimated 38,000 to 150,000. We in the Swedish Democrats have our policy to get to grips with this. What does the government intend to do, for real, for this really to be observed in our country now?
i-715095a36e069253-459	Mr President, I would like to I just described the strategy that the government has decided on and that we will of course also implement. I think it's important that we do it. I also believe that we need to have a greater discussion and debate on this, because I am not quite a hundred people who behave in this way are aware that it is a violation of the law in this country and that it is something that belongs to history. I am very aware that this is happening, and we should all be very clear that this is unacceptable. We should do our utmost to get rid of this, both for the girls' sake and for the families involved in it.
i-715095a36e069253-463	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask my question to Minister of IT Peter Eriksson, but one day I can take a few different turns and therefore my question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. Today, the Swedish Parliament is charging heavily to be very clear to the government about the planned tax increases that have been announced, including the airline tax. Therefore, my question to the Government is whether the Government is now prepared to listen to the majority of the Parliament and therefore also to scrap the proposal.
i-715095a36e069253-465	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the government has not yet made such a proposal. What the government has done is to send a proposal to the Law Council. So there is no proposal to withdraw. I can also say that what Sweden least needs is political chaos, and I would say that we have a common responsibility to ensure that we do not end up in such a situation. Otherwise, we think it is reasonable for all parts of the transport sector to bear a responsibility for the climate change that must take place and that air taxes are a means of ensuring that the aviation industry also assumes its responsibilities in this matter.
i-715095a36e069253-468	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. That Anna Johansson thinks everything that is not a Social Democratic led government is a political chaos is rhetoric we have heard many times before. What has actually been done is to announce this tax and that it is being worked out in the spring budget. So it is not just an investigation or a legislative referral; it is actually something that has been announced to this House. That is why the proposal cannot be regarded as such. Nevertheless, I interpret the Government's response as ensuring that the back is set free for a prepared retreat.
i-715095a36e069253-471	Mr President, I would like to How Erik Ottoson interprets my answer, Erik Ottoson stands for himself. The government has a very clear idea that we need to change society. We need to ensure that our children and grandchildren have a living planet, and that means that all sectors of society must contribute to our no longer using fossil fuels as we have done so far. The aviation industry needs to change, just like any industry. I welcome proposals from the alliance parties which are moving in the same direction and take responsibility for the climate.
i-715095a36e069253-474	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Per Bolund my question. Over-indebtedness is a major problem in society. We have over 400 000 people registered with the Kronofogden. They live on the poverty line, they can't have loans and subscriptions and there are many children suffering. Many times it is an accident that causes over-indebtedness — separation, death in the family, bankruptcy, unemployment, illness. In addition, over-indebtedness leads to accident. A lot of people get knocked out of the labour market and get sick, and they have a very hard time coming back, which costs society billions. It was just over six months since the new law that will make it easier to get debt restructuring that makes a debt-free came into force. Can you see any effects of the law so far, and how does the government generally work on this issue?
i-715095a36e069253-478	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for a very important question and for asking me the question on short notice! I jumped in quite late for this Question Time. It is an incredibly important area, and we know that over-indebtedness is a challenge for the individuals affected. We know that it harms the individuals themselves, their households, and the circle around them. It also harms our whole society, not least economically. So there are strong reasons to go in and try to make improvements and to ensure that we reduce the problem of over-indebtedness. The government has presented a strategy to reduce over-indebtedness with preventive, supportive and rehabilitative measures. In the field of rehabilitation in particular, deleveraging is such an important measure. The new law has had a major impact in that we have seen increases in the order of 50 percent in terms of the number of people now seeking deleveraging and after a couple of years can come out debt-free, plan their finances long-term and participate in social development on the same terms as the rest of us. This is very gratifying.
i-715095a36e069253-482	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I am surprised by the figures showing that there are as many as 50% more. The law has only been in force for six months. This also shows that politics can make a big difference. I also believe that it is very important in the future not only that we help these people out of the debt trap, but above all that we prevent more people from falling into this trap. Then I think it's a lot about knowledge but also about quickly catching up with people.
i-715095a36e069253-485	Mr President, I would like to True, we must do things to help those in debt. We are now actively doing so, and that makes a big difference. But we also need to ensure that fewer people actually end up in debt problems. There prevention is a key, and we are now investing heavily in information and education, not least through the Gilla network, your economy, which is, among other things, in workplaces, schools and organisations. We also support the municipalities in their budget and debt counselling through recommendations and other measures. So we are actively working in this area.
i-715095a36e069253-488	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish district heating system is a very important reason why the heating of residential and residential buildings in urban areas in Sweden is characterised by energy efficiency and a high share of renewable energy. As a Green Member of Parliament, I am very proud to belong to a government base that stated that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries and make an energy transition to 100 percent renewable energy. But the time when Sweden reaches these targets depends on how much electricity there is in the heating. In January and February when it is cold and the factories are running, it is a problem if you have a lot of electricity in the heating and the power reserve has to be put into use. It is largely fossil and makes it difficult to reach climate targets while at the same time closing down nuclear power.
i-RVJp3n6VJM23Jg7qHevSt5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Svensson Smith, for an important question! Even as a Social Democratic member of this government, I am very proud that we aim to make our Swedish welfare society a fossil-free and sustainable society. The remote heat has served us well. That is one of the main reasons why we have moved from a heating system that has been 100% dependent on oil to basically phasing out fossil fuels. I am also pleased that the government, together with three parties in the Riksdag, have agreed to change the rules within the framework of the EU directives that exist so that we do not get a regulatory framework, for example for building regulations and other things, that is to the detriment of district heating. It should be neutral competitive conditions. That is not the case today. It is in that direction that we will work.
i-715095a36e069253-495	Mr President, I would like to That's a nice answer. What about the existing housing stock? I live in Lund, and there is an efficient municipal company that has made major investments in renewable energy within its district heating system. Now there is competition where electricity pumps and other electricity-powered energy are offered, leading to three problems. The possibilities of phasing out nuclear power and reducing the power reserve are being pushed forward. Furthermore, investments made are not used. What does the Minister intend to do about the existing housing stock?
i-715095a36e069253-497	Mr President, I would like to Within the framework of the work carried out by the Energy Commission and the Energy Agreement, there have been changes in the regulatory framework to ensure neutral competition. Furthermore, it has been a question of setting new targets for efficiency efficiency so that we do not need to use so much electricity for heating. Karin Svensson Smith is quite right that the main challenge for the Swedish electricity system is that a lot of electricity is used for heating in winter. If that problem can be solved, we would have a completely different energy system.
i-715095a36e069253-500	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Eriksson. Can you trust the postal service as a citizen? Do we receive the letters we expect to receive? Do a number of letters disappear? If I as a citizen do not receive my letter, how can I complain when I do not know if I should have received a letter? There are many issues that are being debated among citizens. Those of us working on these issues are actively following these debates. The supervision of postal activities is carried out by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, but the Government is responsible for the work that deals with the issues. It is obviously difficult to obtain relevant evidence to answer the question of the security of supply. How many letters are coming up or coming away? This is also a question asked by many citizens. Many of us have seen examples of letters disappearing.
i-715095a36e069253-505	Mr President, I would like to Like the questioner, I am concerned that for a relatively long period there have been problems with postal consignments. Too many letters have arrived late, and there also seems to be a lot of letters that do not arrive at all. This is unacceptable. We need to be able to rely on the letters coming through. That is why better supervision is needed. There is also a need for tougher and clearer requirements for those responsible for ensuring that the universal service is managed. The government is therefore preparing new legislation, i.e. a change in the postal law in this direction. It will come to Parliament relatively soon.
i-715095a36e069253-507	Mr President, I would like to It is also important to develop models for measuring these problems. For example, we Liberals have looked at how the Swedish Tax Agency works with self-declaration, i.e. a digital mailbox and a paper mailing. Somehow we need to get more facts out of the case. How do we know that a change in the regulatory framework will bring forward the letters? It's a clear message from us. It is about making both regional and national measurements so that it can be seen how it looks across the country. The same service should be provided throughout the country. Is the Government prepared to look at the development of security of supply?
i-715095a36e069253-509	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is working on this issue right now. There will certainly be new and better measurement methods. A good precondition is clearer legislation. Today it is not very clear. Conditions are needed to clarify what is required from a citizen's perspective, what the citizen can request from Postnord in relation to letters, and what requirements are made on Postnord. Changes are needed here in the direction of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and the state as legislators.
i-715095a36e069253-513	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. It's a consumer issue. My question is about gambling addiction. A gaming licence investigation was presented on 30 March and, of course, there is no time to anticipate what will happen there in the future. As a Christian Democrat, I feel strongly about the people who end up in gambling abuse. It is estimated that 172 000 people play far too much in Sweden, and 82 000 children are affected. You can try to understand this, but it's hard. Six municipalities out of 290 collaborate with organizations that work with questions about gambling addiction. How does the government view what is sometimes called the new heroin, and what can be done in this context?
i-715095a36e069253-517	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roland Utbolt, for a very important question. We know that gambling abuse and uncontrolled gambling lead to severe consequences, not least socially and economically for affected individuals. We know that these issues are linked to over-indebtedness and, in many cases, to criminal activities. There is a great responsibility here to take joint action to reduce the problems. Here I believe that the new rules of the game will make a big difference. A licensing system is created which means that those operators who do not manage to get rid of their license and are therefore excluded from the Swedish market. The regulations currently under discussion mean much tougher rules for marketing so as to pay attention to costs. Credit that is only for gaming purposes will be stopped. Today there are examples of how you can play on a website, and when you run out of money, just click on a link and then you are connected to a page for credit. We simply have to protect those consumers who have problems with their gambling.
i-715095a36e069253-521	Mr President, I would like to We agree that licensing is needed for gaming and gaming companies. A marketer wrote: quit your job. Buy a ticket! There is aggressive and absurd marketing. As a Christian Democrat, I react strongly. I hear we are in agreement, but will the Government be monitoring – even if it is on another minister – the area in the future?
i-715095a36e069253-525	Mr President, I would like to This is an area that spans the areas of several ministers and ministries. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I see that this has a negative impact on many consumers. In doing so, I really feel a responsibility. Ardalan Shekarabi, who is responsible for the rules of the game, and I work together. I also note that we have a great responsibility as regulators, but the industry has a very big responsibility to take. It is a responsibility that is not being taken up enough today. Here we must ensure that the industry players help and support the consumers who are experiencing problems.
i-715095a36e069253-528	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and Members for participating in this Question Time.
i-715095a36e069253-529	Mr President, I would like to Like previous speeches, I would like to point out, with those who are coming, that shipping has an outstanding impact on Swedish industry, Swedish welfare and the Swedish transport system. Normally, shipping works just fine. It will be that health remains silent, and we hardly notice shipping. It's sneaking on. That time is over when the ships were in the ports days in succession and unloaded and unloaded exotic goods. It is now a constant, fast and very time-efficient flow on the oceans that sometimes touches Sweden's long coast or some of our inland ports. It's working. It is clear that the current situation in the Port of Gothenburg, with conflicts and disruptions in operations, illustrates how extremely sensitive the overall system is. Because it works so well, we rarely reflect on shipping and its importance for the country's welfare and trade. Most of Sweden's foreign trade goes by sea, and when it comes to passenger traffic several million passengers are transported each year by ferry to and from Sweden and our neighbouring countries. Shipping as a mode of transport is fundamentally very climate-smart, and it is of course important for the environment and climate. There is a lot of unused capacity in Swedish shipping today, and it should be used more and more efficiently. If we are to meet the parliamentary goals agreed by the Swedish Parliament, that Sweden should be a climate-neutral country in 2045, shipping as a mode of transport must be given an even more prominent role. Further policy action is needed to make this possible. We all agree that greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced. Of course, this requires many and different measures in all sectors of society, but the reduction of emissions from the transport system is perhaps one of the largest. One way to achieve this is, of course, to move the transport of goods in particular from other modes of transport to shipping because, in relative terms, shipping is a very energy-efficient way of moving things. In order for all this, on which we really agree, to be possible, the competitiveness of Swedish shipping must be improved. Maritime transport is nothing more than a series of large and small companies engaged in maritime transport, and they need good competitiveness and profitability, just like any other transport undertaking. In order to increase the competitiveness of maritime transport, the costs of the whole industry must be reduced. The Center Party and the Alliance believe that shipping must be given better conditions and competitive taxes in order to maintain, and preferably increase, the number of Swedish registered ships. When we discuss tariffs here in Parliament or when the government decides on tariffs for state supervision or design other tasks, one must have an efficiency perspective based on the user. How does this affect the user? Ultimately, the competitiveness of the user, the carrier at sea, depends on this. Mr President, I would like to Shipping is also a global industry that employs millions of people worldwide. There is an international maritime organisation, the IMO, with over 170 Member States around the world. Sweden is one of these. The IMO carries out work on maritime safety, the protection of marine environments and maritime security. The IMO is also working to increase the quality requirements for the maritime administration of flag States, i.e. the way in which Member States manage their domestic fleet effectively. Sweden is a small trade and export-dependent country in a group of 170 countries engaged in this. There is reason to recall that we are very dependent on international conditions of competition. Regardless of where a ship is flagged, what it has for home country, it is affected by the different administrations of all countries. For this reason, we must constantly work, both nationally and internationally, to avoid national separate solutions, i.e. Swedish inventions and egg solutions, and instead encourage more of international cooperation. That, Mr President, is certainly a way of strengthening the Swedish merchant fleet. It is only through a strong Swedish-flagged merchant fleet in an international cooperation that we, as one in 170, can influence the formulation of the international rules for shipping and its employees. The flagging of Swedish ships risks impoverishing the competence and weight of Sweden's voice in international contexts and thus, of course, the possibility of influencing the conditions within the shipping industry. To this end, the Government should work to ensure that rules relating to maritime transport are taken, above all, at a global level, such as within the IMO, and that the common global maritime traffic management systems are encouraged and supported. Mr President, I would like to I could make fun of it, but I won't – and talk about the importance of water for shipping. There is, of course, a great deal of seriousness in this. The waterways along our coasts and in the Great Lakes and their canal systems are a crucial resource for better use of shipping as a tool for increasing the share of sustainable transport in our country. This applies to coastal and inland navigation. There are several waterways and a large number of ports in Sweden, which means that there are good opportunities to relieve the road network and the rail network and thus reduce the load on the traffic system to land and also the climate load. It is therefore important that Swedish shipping is given good conditions and that domestic inland and coastal shipping is also given the opportunity to become more competitive in relation to other modes of transport and can be developed. Increased inland navigation leads to off-loading of land transport infrastructure and the capacity of the overall Swedish freight volume to increase. An increased volume of Swedish goods is good, because it creates prosperity in our country. The Center Party and the Alliance believe that the introduction of the EU inland waterway regulatory framework could have a positive impact on freight transport by ship. However, we would also like to stress that it is urgent not to introduce at the same time Swedish special rules that complicate it and increase the use of the Swedish inland waterways. Much of the maritime infrastructure is in place, but further investment in inland waterway infrastructure is needed. An increased share of maritime transport is an effective way to optimise the use of the whole transport equipment. A holistic approach is therefore required to enable inland navigation primarily on Lake Vänern, Lake Mälaren, Göta River and along our coasts. Mr President, I would like to The government's will and ability to move from words to actions in this regard will soon be properly sighted, as first the Swedish Transport Administration and later the Government itself have to take a position on and present the national transport plan that the Riksdag has given them the mandate to develop. Are the Trollhätsluss with you? Is there a renovation of Göta River with? Are there any concrete proposals to allow increased coastal shipping along the country's coasts? Mr President, I would like to It will become clear whether the government representatives in this House are prepared, like me and everyone else, to pay tribute to shipping and whether they are prepared to move from words to action. Now it is an S-MP government supported by the Left Party that governs our country. Are you prepared to translate the praise speeches into concrete policy? We see this in August, and we will see this in April next year when the national transport plan is presented.
i-715095a36e069253-553	Mr President, I would like to I support Amendment No 3, which deals with inland navigation and coastal shipping, but I naturally support the other two motions in which the Liberals are involved. One is about Swedish maritime competitiveness, and we have it together with the Alliance. The second is reservation No 7, which deals with certain environmental issues. I thought I'd start at another end. The report contains a proposal for amended legislation on ballast water. It is a question of ensuring the possibility of inspecting foreign ships in our ports, so-called port state control, and of being able to charge this. This may seem to be a marginal phenomenon, but now that the ballast convention enters into force in September 2017, it is important that Swedish legislation goes along with it. Let us say: Finally, in September, the United Nations ballast convention will come into force! Sweden signed it already during the time of the alliance government, 2009, so we were early out. The IMO has appealed to the Member States to sign so that it can take effect. I had the privilege of attending the N Sea Conference in New York. In the final document, the Intergovernmental Declaration Our Ocean, Our Future: Call for Action, there is a clear call for Member States to work to control the spread of invasive species. That is the whole basis of ballast legislation and the ballast convention. It is only to be welcomed that this is coming into place. Mr President, I would like to I've said it before, but I dare to say it again. When we discuss shipping, we find out quite quickly that there are two things involved. The first is about how we can exploit the full potential of shipping in the transport system. Maybe the flag isn't the important detail. The second part when we talk about Swedish flagged ships is about Swedish business policy and innovation power, jobs in Sweden and the whole part. The discussion is divided into two parts. I agree with my alliance colleagues Boriana Åberg and Anders Åkesson's speech on the importance of Swedish competitiveness from this point of view, not least what I think Anders Åkesson mentioned: that we gain influence in international organisations, such as IMO, given that Sweden is a leader in both maritime safety and environmental thinking. Unless otherwise, we have great economic benefits there that we can benefit from, if there is a regulatory framework throughout the world. On the question of how we can make shipping an important part of a coordinated transport system, I think we agree that we need to think cross-border. In fact, no mode of transport has an end in itself, but must be able to make use of each mode of transport to optimise the system as a whole. Mr President, I would like to We debated the proposal Infrastructure for the future here in December. If you read the bill and do a simple search you can see that the transfer to rail and shipping shows up more than ten times. It is not such a thick text, so this shows the clear direction that the government has expressed on this issue. This is a direction that we in the Liberals really support, not least for environmental and climate reasons. There's another thing. Environmental and climate reasons are an argument for using maritime transport and making it effective. Another argument is that we should free up capacity on our roads and railways in order to be able to use them for other transports where shipping is not a good alternative. This isn't going all by itself. In order for inland shipping to develop, it must have competitive conditions compared to other modes of transport. However, as someone said earlier, it is the cost that ultimately determines the issue. It is easy to say that we should not have any Swedish special rules, but some we may have to have. It has to do with maritime safety and such things, and that must never be missed. If we have any special conditions that require special rules, we can imagine that, but we should not have special rules just to be safe. We have got into that discussion in many ways. I think that the development that is now taking place in the Transport Agency's thinking, where you start to have function-based requirements instead, is really a step in the right direction. You do not control detail exactly how it should be, but you say: We want you to be able to show that this function exists and works. Another part of the system's ability to function is not to treat shipping as something special in the transport system. Railways and roads to ports must work. It is not an end in itself to load ashore anywhere unless you can take it from there. How important it is that this works shows the discussion about Gothenburg and the extension of the railway and that we will have two railway bridges over the Göta river. If the goods remain in the ports, they will die. It has to work, and this is usually called intermodality in a nice word. Mr President, I would like to I pointed out that shipping can play an important role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, perhaps mainly carbon dioxide. There will be less emissions when you transport goods on the lake because there is less energy consumption per tonne-kilometre, but there are other things going on that are extremely positive. The shipowners themselves say: Every ship we build is 20 percent more energy efficient. This is because a lot of research is being done on the hulls and engines. A development is now taking place, and new ships that are ordered and that can hopefully be flagged in Sweden are hugely more energy efficient. Then we need to develop the fuels. There are also many positive things going on; we have the whole LNG discussion. However, there is a small backside, which sometimes strikes you: we are still talking about fossil fuels. In Stena's big methanol initiative in Gothenburg, however, they run with biofuels. An LNG boat does not have to go on LNG, it can also go on liquid biogas. After all, this link exists, and it really is a development in the right direction. As far as fuels are concerned, in recent years we have been discussing the sulphur directive vigorously, the costs and the way it beats. Now the sulphur directive has been in place for almost a year and a half. It is only to be noted that comparing the years 2014 and 2015, sulphur emissions from ships in the Baltic Sea have decreased by 88%, and then it is clear that we get better air and better health in people. Particulate emissions have also been reduced by between 35 and 40%, and that is also a good result. This is evolution. Now the whole world is going to go over to 0.5% sulphur, and it is clear that it will also have positive effects. Mr President, I would like to I must agree with what the report says. Much has happened in the field of shipping, but the question is whether the right things are happening so that we get the right results. In the end, only the result counts. We can list as many measures as we like, but as long as inland shipping does not increase, as we wish, it is not the right measures or sufficient measures. It is in this perspective that we have reservations about this matter with some impatience. It started during the time of the alliance government, in January 2013, with the action plan for improving Swedish competitiveness in the Swedish shipping industry. A lot has happened since then. We have a basic regulatory framework for inland shipping in place. We have also received the tonnage tax in place. Now we really have to follow this up to see where the hooks are so that things don't happen. Just because we introduced a tonnage tax, it was not that everyone suddenly stood in line to flag into Sweden. There are also other regulations that we need to look at. It must not be too complicated and too expensive to flag back. Then you don't. You don't go through that process of some sort of ideality. There must also be economic drivers. This is what we need to solve in order to exploit the full potential of shipping, not least inland shipping. Anders Åkesson concluded his speech with a very interesting question about Göta River and Trollhätte Canal. Socio-economic calculations are made on such things. But I would like to see the government that said: it was not socially profitable, at least not in the short term. That's why we shut down Lake Väners. I do not believe that any government is prepared to make such a decision. But it would be quite interesting to hear if someone else could think that thought at all. I don't think so.
i-715095a36e069253-576	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 from the Christian Democrats and for reservation 1 from the alliance parties. Mr President, I would like to Swedish shipping operates in a global market, where international rules set the rules for Swedish and international shipping companies. It is therefore important that we have a plan to ensure that our shipping companies are able to speak and participate in influencing the international development of the industry. Maritime transport is a very important industry for Sweden's development and competitiveness and is of great importance for the Swedish transport system. A strong merchant fleet is needed for several reasons, not least in order to enable good conditions for imports, exports and passenger traffic and also to strengthen environmental and maritime safety. Through a large Swedish-flagged merchant fleet, Sweden can, as I said, influence the design of the international rules for shipping, thereby helping to make shipping more environmentally friendly and safe. The goal of the Christian Democrats' transport policy is that all modes of transport and transport are safe, socially efficient, sustainable and climate neutral. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, shipping transports approximately 80 per cent of Sweden's foreign trade and 90 per cent of world trade measured in volume. This means that approximately 180 million tonnes of Swedish goods are transported by sea. In addition, approximately 30 million passengers per year are transported by ferry between Sweden and our neighbouring countries. The Swedish maritime sector and all its surrounding companies are growth-generating and employ approximately 100 000 people and contribute to the growth of the country. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to see more effort being made to expand inland waterways in order to get more goods transport by sea. Swedish inland waterways are under-utilised today, while the railways are under pressure by increasing pressure and lack of capacity and are not enough. In addition, inland waterway transport provides a greater environmental benefit compared to truck transport, which accounts for a large part of CO2 emissions in the country. Increased inland navigation leads to off-loading of land transport infrastructure. By moving more freight to shipping, greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector will be reduced and the targets set for a fossil-independent transport sector by 2030 will be achieved. If this is to happen, we must renovate the infrastructure around our inland waterways and facilitate transport by sea. Mr President, I would like to It is very important that Swedish special rules, which make the use of inland waterways more expensive or more difficult, should not be introduced. Today, shipping pays for the maintenance of its transport routes, such as icebreaking, through fairway fees and pilotage fees. The Christian Democrats believe that we should constantly review how the financing of ice mining in particular but also fairway maintenance should be designed to promote competition neutrality between different modes of transport. Mr President, I would like to Swedish shipping operates in a global market, where international rules set the rules for Swedish and international shipping companies. Rapid technological developments and increased economic and trade globalisation have a significant impact on shipping as an industry and therefore international interaction and harmonisation of common global maritime transport systems should be encouraged and supported. Mr President, I would like to In recent years, more and more Swedish registered shipping companies have been flagged out. Several speakers have said this during the debate. Until 2009, the number of Swedish flagged vessels remained stable at around 250. Today, the number of Swedish flagged vessels is about 100. The challenges for Swedish shipping are great. In particular, it is a question of reducing the costs and regulatory constraints of the industry. We must give Swedish shipping good conditions and competitive taxes. Mr President, I would like to In order to strengthen the opportunities of the Swedish merchant fleet, the Christian Democrats have long been pushing the issue of tonnage tax, which for a long time has been demanded by the merchant fleet. After some delays, the tonnage tax will finally be introduced in Sweden on 1 January 2018. Hopefully, this reform will contribute to more Swedish-flagged ships. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to simplify the regulatory framework for shipping companies. Today, they may have to turn to a variety of authorities for help with their questions. Government contact is too often bureaucratic. The Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, therefore want to introduce a guarantee that companies only have to submit one task once to an authority called one stop shop. The data will then be passed on to the relevant authority for processing. This would significantly reduce the time that shipping companies need to spend on administration and reduce their costs. Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport is a very important industry for Sweden's development and competitiveness and is of great importance for the Swedish transport system. For this reason, we Christian Democrats want to increase the competitiveness of Swedish shipping, including by reducing regulatory problems in terms of registration, certification, flagging and more and abolishing unnecessary charges that increase the business of Swedish-flagged boats.
i-715095a36e069253-600	Mr President, I would like to Today, Parliament will join the Climate Framework Act. It is a historic day, and I am really looking forward to it. Part of the Climate Framework Act is to transfer the agreement contained in the Environmental Objectives Committee to reduce the climate impact of domestic transport, apart from aviation, by at least 70 per cent by 2030. It is in the light of this that I consider shipping and the potential of shipping to be part of solving problems. Road transport is a major problem. It takes at least two changes for us to go to the finish with what there is an overwhelming majority for in this House. This is a change of fuel, so that the fuel sold in the petrol and diesel pumps is gradually less and less fossil origin and more and more renewable. But we also need to change modes of transport, because we need to use much less energy. Renewable energy will not be enough to provide transport with the energy they are using today. We need to use shipping and rail more and road transport less. Maritime transport has a potential that is easy to see if you look at how Sweden organizes its domestic transport compared to other countries. Although we have one of Europe's longest coasts and 52 ports, only 3% of domestic transport goes by sea. This distinguishes us from many other countries, which, although they may have worse geographical conditions, use their waterways and their coasts better to transport goods and goods. Why is this? If you look at the analysis from the Swedish Maritime Administration on coastal and inland shipping that was referred to here in the speaker's chair earlier, you see a number of regulatory changes that need to be made. However, as pointed out earlier, it is above all a question of cost differences – the person who transports goods and goods generally does not carry out non-profit activities, but plus and minus must go together. If it is much cheaper to drive a truck all the way than to combine a truck with shipping, it will be a truck that applies. That is why I think it would be nice if the alliance politicians who stood before me were also in favour of the proposal on road wear tax in some form that has been investigated. It is about each mode of transport being charged with the costs that are reasonable to cover external costs and for us to reach the climate targets we will agree on together when we press the button at 2.30 p.m. 16 today. There is also a need for changes in fairway charges, and two changes are important. One is to reward those shipping companies who order tonnage that affects the climate less. Everyone in the committee who participated in Viking Line's trip with Grace to Åland a while ago has learned that this investment not only leads to less climate impact but also significantly better working environment. This should, of course, be rewarded in the form of lower fairway charges compared to those ordering older tonnages. It is also about other technical solutions. HH Ferries has been here in the Riksdag and showed how they intend to use electricity, which will soon be inaugurated on one of the ferries that runs between Helsingborg and Helsingör. It is also something we should affirm and facilitate by differentiating fairway charges so that those who burden the climate are less subject to lower charges and those who maintain older technologies have to pay more. Another differentiation of fairway charges is also rational, and it is a question of having a lower threshold for smaller ships and small shipping companies intending to operate on smaller waterways and coastal shipping. It can reasonably continue to be paid by providing them with a discount financed by paying more for oil tankers and cruise ships. In the Swedish Maritime Administration's report, there are other things that are highlighted as essential if we are to use the potential of shipping. What I paid particular attention to is the regulatory framework. Some of us in the Transport Committee made a trip last autumn to Rotterdam, where we could see how barge traffic was used. Rotterdam, which is one of the largest ports, receives tonnage from outside but also has as a rule that at least half of what affects the new port should proceed by either rail or barge traffic, in order to reduce the load on the climate. This is rational, but it presupposes that you have business models that stand for it. Then it is problematic when you classify the inland waterways in such a way that you do not get the whole route where you can build a business solution so that the shipping companies, whether it be Lake Vänern or Lake Mälaren, can use other manning rules and rules that make it effective to invest in barge traffic. I think we can take advantage of seeing how it is done in London, Paris, Rotterdam and several cities that want to relieve the road network from lorries, which are normally powered by diesel, by using barges for goods and goods transport. In London, I also believe that it is used for waste transport. I think there are a lot of gains with such a shift: the road network becomes more accessible for those who bike or ride collectively, the air becomes cleaner and the city gets larger areas to use either to make the city greener or to build housing. However, there are other rules that emerge in the report from the Swedish Maritime Administration. I find it rather sad that a more modern regulatory framework has not been put in place for pilot duty, which we have had up and running in the Committee on Transport and has been investigating since 2006. The technology has been developed, as several visits to the Riksdag from Avatar, among others, have shown. Modern navigation equipment is in place, which means that we should move from a general liability system to a safety-based requirement for pilots when either the tonnage or the fairway justifies the use of pilots when moving. The Government's freight transport bill announces its intention to develop a good strategy. As part of the good strategy, the possibility of using e-co-bonus has been explored. It is a new support system which, among other things, Italy has been notified in the EU system. This aid scheme provides for the possibility of paying part of the difference between the freight transporter transferring from truck to shipping for his goods transport. I look forward to using this system as well as other systems to ensure that the long coast of Sweden, 52 ports and good opportunities for inland shipping become part of the transition to a fossil-fuel-free transport system that we agree on needs to be implemented. I also believe that we should take advantage of the investigations we have carried out ourselves and the analysis of the competitiveness of shipping that we have produced. It looks more closely at how we create fair and effective conditions for freight transport and how we ensure that the necessary investments are made. There has been talk of Trollhätte Canal in the past, and I have nothing to add except that we obviously need to renew the locks, not only for the sake of shipping, but also in order to regulate Vänern's water level more effectively. It is also about Malmporten outside Luleå– 90 percent of the iron ore used in Europe comes from LKAB, and they need better opportunities to use Luleå harbour for their transport. It is also about Hjulstabron and that Mälaren can really use shipping better. 51 percent of all goods driven around the roads in the Mälar area are stone, sand and gravel. It is quite ineffective to drive it on a truck when barges should be a suitable alternative. There are many opportunities, and I think shipping has a renewed spring to look forward to. I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-715095a36e069253-624	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 3 because I missed it in my main speech. I asked for a reply on the grounds that the chairman of the Transport Committee, Karin Svensson Smith, the Green Party, one of the government parties, said: It would be nice if more parties joined the proposal to introduce a road wear charge. So that is what the depths of the people call mileage tax. Then I must ask the very initiated government party representative Karin Svensson Smith : What proposal does Karin Svensson Smith think we should have joined? There was an investigation under the leadership of Vilhelm Andersson, Mr President. It would have been presented on 1 March this year, if I remember correctly. On 26 February, on Sunday, the country's finance minister went out and said: There will be nothing of that investigation. Let's stop it. It's out of date. The surprise was great. What proposal from the Swedish Government, Karin Svensson Smith, is it we could relate to the introduction of a road toll or, as I usually call it, a tax from a distance – a kilometre tax?
i-715095a36e069253-629	Mr President, I would like to You can agree with any proposal you wish. What I am looking for is that if one is serious about climate issues and by using each mode of transport for what it is best at, it must be similar conditions. Maritime transport and railways pay distance-based charges in the form of track charges and fairway charges. The mode of transport that lacks such charges is precisely road transport and lorry transport. Today, in committee, we have heard of a European road traffic package. It presupposes ending the time-based charges imposed by the Eurovignette system and moving to what is rational for all countries in the EU, i.e. distance-based charges. This means that in relation to the climate impact, the risk of accidents and air pollution, charges should be included in the price. In this way, shipping and the railways can take greater responsibility for the transport that needs to emerge. Anders Åkesson asks if this applies precisely to the proposal that has been examined now or something else. That's not my point. The point is that you say yes to the goal but no to what leads to the goal being achieved.
i-715095a36e069253-632	Mr President, I would like to The main reason why I, the alliance parties and very many others, and obviously also the country's Finance Minister Magdalena Andersson, killed the proposal for a kilometre tax that was being investigated was that it clearly penalises distances. It penalises climate efficiency and the conversion of green and surface-dependent industries in our country in particular. It is they, Mr President, who are going to make it possible to switch to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in our country. They are precisely punished with precision with the proposal for a kilometre tax that Karin Svensson Smith here champions. The chairman of Parliament's Transport Committee then says: You can agree with any proposal you wish. Is it a new form of government that we see expressed by the Green Party? In what way and in what form will the Swedish Government present a proposal for a road wear charge? It would be interesting for the House to have an insight into this. When the Minister of Finance killed the ongoing investigation, she said that this would be taken for internal preparation at the Government Office. Clearly, there is soon something we can relate to. If so, when will this be presented, Karin Svensson Smith? When will the cooperation government present a proposal for a kilometre tax, and in what forms do we have to deal with this? I think we're a lot of people who are curious about that.
i-715095a36e069253-635	Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely sure that Anders Åkesson is the best at interpreting what the Minister of Finance thinks when she says things. We are trying to capture a system of climate, regional and labour market policy benefits. It should not be a secret to Anders Åkesson that there is quite unsyst and illegal competition along the way, and we have tried to find a system where climate benefits can be accessed, the right distribution between road, rail and shipping, and also ensure that the crimes committed today are prosecuted. Germany, Switzerland and the other countries that have mileage taxes also have a registration that makes it possible to prosecute in a much better and more effective way what is done by those who do not comply with the rules that we have in Sweden on how to manage transport with respect to staff, loading and other regulations. That is why the question is being prepared in the Government Office. It is the role of the opposition to attack the majority in this House, but what I meant is that if you are ever to shoulder responsibility again, you must have some proposals of your own and not just try to say that the government's proposals should be this or that. What proposal has the Center Party put forward to find an effective distribution so that shipping can shoulder its responsibilities, so that rail freight has a future to see and so that climate objectives are achieved?
i-715095a36e069253-639	Mr President, I would like to In her speech, Karin Svensson Smith spoke warmly about the so-called e-co bonus system, which has taken inspiration from Italy, Norway, the UK and so on and which they intend to introduce on trials in Sweden. It is certainly good, but I wonder whether Karin Svensson Smith and the government, which she represents, have missed that the industry has had very strong views on the fairway fees and pilotage fees. If we really want to make inland and coastal shipping easier, why not do what is demanded of the industry instead of drawing inspiration from far and wide? Since it has been earmarked for 30 million for the e-co bonus system, while a possible change in fairway charges costs a lot more – we can remember the Alliance government's shipping billion in three years – I would like to hear how Karin Svensson Smith discusses this.
i-715095a36e069253-641	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Boriana Åberg! It gives me the opportunity to state that it is a collection of measures and not just a measure that is needed for shipping to exploit its potential. What I am looking for is that you do not need to have a net increased cost for the state if you allow fairway charges to be differentiated in the same way as we now have a bonus – Malus system for cars, which rewards those who buy environmentally smart cars compared to those who do not. The idea is that the same can be done with shipping so that those who acquire new tonnage have some economic benefit from the higher investment cost they incur. I think, of course, that the whole regulatory framework should be reviewed as well. If lorry transport were allowed only in certain contexts and they were banned when it is too icy or too windy, it would hardly be a good deal for the hauliers. I think that we should treat all modes of transport equally and expect that the operator of a shipping company and the sea captain responsible for a ship should also be responsible for allowing the weather, wind, climate and other physical circumstances to determine when and where to use their craft. I am absolutely certain that shipping could shoulder a greater responsibility. I would like to address the question back to Boriana Åberg. The biggest difference, of course, is that there is a fairway system at all for shipping, whereas lorry transport does not have a corresponding system. That's why we're stomping. 3% of domestic transport is shipping. I was in Luleå, and the people I spoke with there were saddened that they drive ready-made houses with road transport from north to south instead of using Piteå harbour and the waterway. It would be much more rational for everyone, but the charging system today does not pay off.
i-715095a36e069253-645	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say quickly that the hauliers pay as many fees as they can. It's taxes on fuel and car taxes and so on. Let's get back to shipping. Karin Svensson Smith, together with Daniel Helldén, wrote an article in which Italy was given as an example of a country where the state pays the extra costs for transport buyers who move their transport to shipping. I first wonder if Karin Svensson Smith thinks that this is something that can be implemented in Sweden. If so, how should it be financed? I would also like to return to Karin Smiths's speech, in which she expressed the view that the regulatory framework for inland and coastal shipping should be renewed. There is a need for more flexible manning rules, rules of jurisdiction, extended inland waterway zones, a reformed requirement for pilotage and so on. In other words, it is a rapprochement with the rules of the EU inland waterway regulatory framework and a reduction in the number of specific rules. Sweden has been affected by many of these in inland navigation. This is something the Alliance has long demanded. I wonder if Karin Svensson Smith would consider supporting the Alliance the next time we come forward with a proposal to improve inland and coastal navigation precisely by eliminating any special rules that have no bearing on maritime safety.
i-715095a36e069253-649	Mr President, I would like to Precisely regulatory simplification is something that alliance politicians are happy to talk about when they are in opposition but have despaired difficult to deliver when they are in the majority. For eight years, you had the opportunity to make all these regulatory simplifications. Lottery duty has been investigated since 2006. For a long time, the EU has a regulatory framework that allows barges to be run in most of the major EU watercourses. What Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd did as a minister was that she basically said that it would introduce EU rules, but if you look at the distances between the areas you can use barges in, you can see that so far it is not a single Swedish shipping company that has managed to get a business idea approved. That is why we from the Red Green Government are looking at these things in the good strategy we have put forward and are considering various instruments precisely with the intention of using shipping as a viable freight transport law. We have done so in much less time than the eight years in which you were able to do this.
i-715095a36e069253-652	Madam President, I would like Karin Svensson Smith spoke here last time about the functional regulation system and the duty of goods. The obligation to transport works well in many places, but it is clear that it can develop into a much simpler system. I would actually like to make another point that Karin Smith mentioned in her speech. It is about inland shipping. We can talk about costs and things like that. But there are many parts to the investments in maritime transport. It is a complex system that needs to be put in place. For Trollhätte canal it is really only on or off. Either it is decided to renovate and adapt the locks for new ships, or to refrain from making decisions or say no. The latter two lead to exactly the same result. A non-decision will be a closure decision. Trollhätteslussarna have always had a best before date in some way, but now it has become last consumption day. Then it's getting a little more dramatic. As far as transport buyers are concerned, it is ultimately a matter of costs. But it is also about long-termness, accessibility and building new transport systems. Now you sit in many places around Vänern and wait for the message: Is it something that you should develop? It's a standby mode now. Should I interpret Karin Svensson Smiths's statement of willingness to invest as being mediated from the government, or is it a pious hope from Karin Svensson Smith?
i-715095a36e069253-658	Madam President, I would like The future will show which mix of investments will be included in the national transport plan that the government will take a position on in spring 2018. But I agree with the view that one can no longer wait to decide whether Vänern and Göta River should be used as a fairway or not. If you're going to keep doing that, it's going to take an investment in the locks on Trollhätte Canal. There's no way to discuss it. On the other hand, it is not just a matter of on or off. You can make different kinds of investments. Apart from using the Göta river as a fairway, there is a strong need to be able to regulate the water level in Lake Vänern in order to prevent the cities around Lake Vänern from flooding if it rains for a long time. Forestry around Lake Vänern has led to being quite vulnerable to prolonged rain. Arvika experienced this in the early 2000s when there was a great flood. In order to prevent the cities around Lake Vänern from suffering from this again, the locks in Trollhättan therefore need to be rebuilt for two reasons – both for shipping and for climate-proofing the cities around Lake Vänern. And it's not really the same kind of investment. I look forward to the government dealing with that. The climate adaptation investigation has only recently been received. I don't think it's even sent for a referral. But I am sure that once it has come in, the government will take the two things into account when making the investment mix. You need to invest in more things. Personally, I think we should invest more in coastal and inland shipping. But I do not always think it is wise to continue with the kind of trade where you fish in one continent, drive the catch to another continent and fillet, prepare and freeze it there and then drive it to a third continent. That kind of shipping, I think, has limitations.
i-715095a36e069253-663	Madam President, I would like The latest is probably also part of what is being returned to at the New York Sea Conference. It is incredibly difficult to control IUU fishing, i.e. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. But that is another issue that we can discuss for a long time. I agree that there are many areas. Karin Svensson Smith highlights Malmporten. There's one thing. But we also have the Port of Gothenburg. If the containers are to be transported by sea to Norway instead of by lorry, the ships must be larger. That sounds strange. But there must be larger ships to Gothenburg so that the container quantity to Norway will be large enough. Otherwise, it will continue to go on a truck. So what to invest in is incredibly complex. There will certainly be a big discussion when the proposal on the national plan comes, even if it is not a parliamentary issue. When it comes to Göta River and climate adaptation, one could not least combine the construction of locks and reinforcements against skerries in Göta River. It is a factor that allows you to start to drop water at a completely different speed. It could be combined. I fully agree that both things must be resolved. I guess I didn't really get an answer about whether it was a pious hope or whether it was a message from the government. But I guess there won't be any more answers than that today.
i-715095a36e069253-668	Madam President, I would like No, it won't. You have to choose. I do not believe that there are unlimited budgetary resources in the Liberal world either. Given what we have just pressed on the buttons for in this House, it is important to have it as a first priority. I think it is reasonable to assume that the most important thing is to reduce the impact of climate change. Then you should be able to see that no matter how well you like the railway, it takes time to expand it. As low-hanging fruit you can then use the ports and fairways we already have in a much better way than today. I am convinced that, if we implement the regulatory framework applied in the Netherlands, for example, a much greater proportion of inland freight could be carried out by sea. We could find good combinations. This is not about one or the other mode of transport. These are good combinations of road, rail and shipping. As I pointed out earlier, the government has left a freight transport bill which says it is preparing a good strategy. Most of the changes for shipping are prepared in the Government Office, in order to be part of the Good Strategy.
i-715095a36e069253-673	Madam President, I would like We are actually discussing maritime issues today. But the committee chairman, Karin, also mentioned mileage tax. She wants all of us to be involved in the introduction of a kilometre tax and punishing the haulage industry. As Karin said, we agree that more goods should be transported by sea. That is why we want inland waterways to be equipped for more goods to be transported domestically by inland waterways. It could be about equipping roads and ports and going both road and rail and so on. As I said, it is more environmentally friendly to transport goods by sea than by road. With regard to the so-called kilometre tax, which Karin beats her chest to be able to introduce, the government has not yet presented such a proposal. According to previous discussions, leaked from the government, there would be a proposal for a kilometre tax, a distance tax on this industry. This would cost the business about SEK 5 billion. The truck industry and the transport sector would have higher costs. The forestry industry would have higher costs. The transporters and also consumers will ultimately pay this tax, which you want to introduce and thus punish them, Karin Svensson Smith. We have proposed longer and heavier lorries to tackle greenhouse gas emissions from the truck industry. But my question to the chairman of the committee and the representative of the Green Party is: is there any concrete proposal from the government to introduce mileage taxes? If so, when will it be presented?
i-715095a36e069253-679	Madam President, I would like When things are done in the Government Office, I cannot answer, and it would be foolish of me to try to do so. As I have said before, we have more than one intention. Apart from the climate, it is about finding a system that makes all trucks in Sweden pay a fee, whether it is a Swedish or a foreign registration plate. This is a requirement that both the Transport Workers' Association and the Swedish Åkeri Company have had for a long time. They want dignified conditions for haulage and fair competition. The first country in Europe to introduce mileage taxes was Switzerland. Switzerland has not made itself known to be a particularly radical country, but it was seen that the glaciers were melting and that the snow was not as it should be. The Alps are considered very important for all those living in Switzerland. It was linked to all the exhaust gases generated by truck traffic. That is why a kilometre tax was introduced that is far higher than what I believe the investigation has ever looked at. Revenue is used to expand railway tunnels so that goods can be transported by rail through Switzerland. I do not think that there are so many people in Switzerland who are thinking of abolishing the kilometre tax and returning to transporting the goods by road instead of by rail. You take care of your nature. I am surprised that the Christian Democrats, who, as far as I understand, want to manage creation in a good way, are not more afraid of the natural values that Sweden has. This will allow shipping and rail to be used more and less to reduce the climate change caused by road traffic.
i-715095a36e069253-684	Madam President, I would like I am sorry to say this, but I think the chairman of the committee is not listening. I think you want to say what you think and then try to put the word in the mouth of others who do not agree with what you say and say. Just a minute ago I said that we want more goods to be transported by sea and rail instead of by road, which is more, so to speak, environmentally unfriendly t. But as things stand, we are not there yet. We depend on truck transport. The forestry industry and other export industries depend on the transport of goods to shipping, to the railways, to wholesale trade and to consumers. In that case, truck is a good option when there are no other options. Just taxing the truck industry doesn't solve the problem. We want to stimulate more use of less CO2-based fuels and to introduce heavier and longer trucks in order for more goods to be transported at a time. Then there are many other proposals that we have discussed in the past on how to tackle transport emissions – this in order to achieve the goals of a fossil independent transport sector by 2030. The Green Party and Karin Svensson Smith want to introduce a penalty tax of kilometres and distances of up to SEK 5 billion. Your proposal leads to much higher costs, and it will strangle the truck industry, the transport sector and also the industries that depend on transport.
i-715095a36e069253-688	Madam President, I would like I mentioned earlier the example of housemaking in Piteå to illustrate what I am trying to say. The house is no less worth because it is transported on water from Piteå to Mälardalen compared to if it is transported on a truck. It is more rational to increase the use of rail and maritime transport. If you want this to happen, you actually have to take economic facts into account. Anyone who sells or buys things needs to make money from it, and now it is in many cases more expensive to use rail and shipping. That is why road transport is responsible for any increase in freight transport. My first inquiry, the Committee on Transport and Communications, 1995, has been in at least four studies which have concluded that there is no way of finding a rational distribution between road, rail and maritime transport with less than the introduction of kilometric or road-wear taxes. The Climate Committee, the Road Transport Taxation Committee, the Environmental Objectives Committee – everyone has proposed it. It's not enough carrots. The climate issue is far too serious. It takes both carrot and whip. There is a need for a functioning railway and shipping, but we also need to allow those who burn oil to pay more for it. It is a prerequisite for taking climate targets seriously.
i-QzqSShsvveMmPfTZTgbLSn	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the Transport Committee's report 2016/ 17:TU18, which deals with the Government's proposal 2016/ 17:134 Supplementation of the ballast water law and the Government's letter 2016/ 17:164 Riksrevisionen's report on state investment in public waterways and exercise from the general exercise period. The law aims to ensure inspections of foreign ships in accordance with international rules. All measures that should be subject to a charge under the law are covered by an authorisation for the government or the authority that the government decides to provide for fees. Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. First of all, I would like to stress the need to see the various transport systems as a whole. We cannot do without rail, haulage, shipping or air transport, whether in the case of goods or passenger transport. I agree with Lars Tysklind that it is easy to fall into the headpipe thinking. We need to see the whole thing, and we probably do it normally, but it is easy to fall into the headpipe thinking even when we meet industries, and they have actually started to protest a little. We need a good infrastructure for industry, not least for the export industry, which allows us to maintain, develop and establish qualified industrial production in Sweden. Opportunities for fast and secure freight transport mean a lot when a company chooses where to establish itself. This also creates more jobs, and it is good for Sweden. We see shipping as strategically important and as a basic industry operating in a global environment. There is a need for a competition-neutral regulatory framework, which means that people do not opt out of using ports in Sweden to instead make European ports and thus transport more goods on rubber wheels that burden our roads even further. The tonnage tax has long been a symbolic issue for the shipping industry. Now that legislation is in place, and it entered into force on 1 January 2017. The aim was to have a level playing field with other European countries, and the tonnage tax is part of several measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish shipping industry. Due to the increase in transport within Sweden, we want to transfer more goods to rail and shipping in both the Transport Committee and the Government. At the same time, we know that parts of our network are already under heavy pressure and that it is hardly possible to increase the load further without measures. That is why shipping will play an increasingly important role in the future. It is in maritime transport that there are good opportunities for capacity increases. During the year, the Government has presented various proposals, including on regulations for inland navigation. Work has also begun on regulatory simplification in maritime transport. Last night, there was a new bill on regulatory simplification in our mailboxes. This proposal was also considered positive by the recreational boat network, as the regulatory simplifications will also apply. On 31 December 2016, an analysis of the development potential of inland navigation and coastal shipping in Sweden was submitted to the Government. As a result of this investigation, the Government has now commissioned Transport Analysis to evaluate the impact of the new fairway charges and environmental differentiation proposed by the Swedish Maritime Administration on the industry. We welcome the use of fairway charges as instruments to reduce the environmental impact of shipping, but then the charges must be at such levels that they actually have an effect. Furthermore, the government is looking at pilot duty, which has also been one of the areas in which the industry has been highly critical. In order to stimulate landlords to use shipping, the government is now investigating, as Karin said, what is called eco bonus. This means giving a discount to the landlords to use shipping as an alternative to carrying the goods. Italy, among others, makes use of the system, and Norway has decided earlier this year to introduce eco bonus. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute, VTI, to develop and update knowledge on the socio-economic costs of sea and air transport. VTI will report this on 1 November 2018. Madam President, I would like All parties in the Transport Committee claim that they want to move from rubber wheels to rail and shipping. I would like to know how, within the Alliance, you intend to get such a transfer of parts of the goods to rail and shipping without evening out the conditions. The Government made decisions on A Swedish maritime strategy – for people, jobs and the environment in 2015, and many people ask about the continued work. The government continues to work on its part within the strategy. In addition, the Agency has been given a continuing mandate to carry out an in-depth follow-up of the national maritime strategy and develop a limited number of indications for annual follow-up in the different areas of action together with other relevant authorities and stakeholders. This shall be reported by 15 February 2018. The Government has also conducted a number of dialogue meetings with the industry, authorities and transport buyers in shipping. You also know that there have been a number of regulatory simplifications, and we now have one on our table. The government is therefore doing a great deal to make it easier for shipping. Madam President, I would like The report contains some objects on measures for Lake Väner, Trollhätte Canal and Lake Mälaren. These proposals will be discussed in the forthcoming action plan submitted by the Finnish Transport Administration to the Government in early autumn 2018. During last year's debate, the committee highlighted the monitoring of sulphur dioxide, Mr Seka, and I am pleased to note that a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment will be presented in the autumn. The IMO is working on a proposal to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions – called Neca – to be decided this summer. It is expected to enter into force in 2021. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's review report on the Swedish Maritime Administration at least made me raise my eyebrows. The report contains a number of points that really need to be corrected. There are shortcomings in procedures for reporting and testing secondary activities. The Swedish National Audit Office made there assumptions that several people could compete with the work they have in their work. Within a certain group of employees there was a high rate of overtime. A total of 83 people have worked 42 700 hours in overtime at a cost of SEK 30 million, without social security contributions. If only the hours and the number of persons indicated are taken into account, it can be observed that the work is seriously in breach of the Working Time Act. There the Maritime Administration's management has a homework to do. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about the recreational boat's network, which Edward Riedl from the Moderates and I lead together. We have now had two sittings with representatives from the boat industry and the Swedish Boat Union, which is an organisation that gathers the boat clubs. We have also met representatives from insurance companies, police and customs. They have drawn our attention to the increasing number of stolen outboard engines and, to a certain extent, boats, which have become an industry of organised crime. In the last two years, the amount of goods exported from Sweden has increased from an estimated value of 85 million to 200 million. Good preventive work has been carried out on the west coast, but the statistics from there are expected to collapse this year when thieves have started entering the boathouses and with companies responsible for winter storage of private boats. It is about ordering jobs, and according to professionals Sweden is worst hit because of the high value, good transport routes and low clearance level. The goods are picked out via a few ports that have ferry connections across the Baltic Sea. It is not only boat engines that disappear but also agricultural machines, construction machines, robotic mowers, home electronics, bicycles and much more to an estimated total value of just over 1 billion this year. The industry does not see that the problem will be reduced without measures being taken. The last meeting was held on Tuesday, but I still felt that the issue was important to highlight. We will come back to that. The government is therefore doing a great deal, even though previous speakers have said that it is not. A tonnage tax and the regulations for inland navigation have come into place, and we now have a second proposal to simplify the rules for shipping on our table. There is an investigation into fairway charges and pilot duty, which is discussed at the Department. Many of the views that have emerged in the government's investigations are prepared in the Government Office, and the proposals will be put on the table as they are ready. There were a few different things that were previously asked for here.
i-715095a36e069253-716	Madam President, I would like It is important that the government is driving the IMO to create international solutions, as we have also heard from the alliance parties. Of course, it is important that Sweden is a strong voice in such contexts. At the same time, we should go ahead. Just look at what has happened since the introduction of the sulphur directive! We have had an enormous and fine technological development. The Swedish shipowners become world leaders with new technology. I myself was part of the Environmental Objectives Committee when it prepared the sulphur directive. It is very exciting now to see how much good it does when you lay down environmental rules that provide common conditions for a region but that also means that this region can have a technological development and thus go ahead. Out in the world, China now sees it as something positive to some extent that the US is backing up from the Paris Agreement. I believe, however, that there is some sadness in the heart and that we are concerned about our climate future. At the same time, however, this is seen as an opportunity for business development, to be ahead of new technologies, and thus be able to expand first and get first on track. The same applies here. When we adopted the sulphur directive, this led many shipowners to take advantage of and develop environmental technologies. We shall support and help in any way we can. It will be beneficial to sail under the Swedish flag. We still have a lot to do there. The Tonnage Acquis was very important to get in place. It helps to keep the flag in Sweden. However, as the investigation shows, it may not cause a flag to be taken home or a new ship to be built here in Sweden that can fly the Swedish flag if we do not take further action. We really need to work on this. Eco bonus, now under investigation, is the Left Party very positive. This is good, and we need it. We would also need one for the railways. The only problem is that it is proposed to last for three years. When you talk to shipowners, they say that it may be that as a shipowner you still don't dare to bet properly, because you have longer foresight and need a better situation in the long term to really dare to bet. I think it's important that this comes into the e c o bonus investigation – that you also look at the long-term perspective and how shipowners should dare go into this. Perhaps it can also lead to the Swedish flag and that you want to make investments. Then we should look at infrastructure investments, such as LNG, port infrastructure and intermodality infrastructure, that is to say, we will have better transhipment facilities in ports vis-à-vis rail and other means of transport, and, above all, we will be able to make the chain of sustainable means of transport efficient. Here we need to constantly have a dialogue with all the actors in order to move forward. It is extremely important for our climate that we make this thorough and, above all, responsive to the real problems and the most important practical solutions that need to be put in place to make shipping and rail more efficient than by road. We cannot continue to have around 85% of road haulage. It is unsustainable from a climate perspective, but also from a road safety point of view. There are a great many accidents on our roads with this truck sector, not least due to dumping in the haulage industry. Here I find it very interesting to discuss the kilometre tax that we have entered in the budget for this year that we want to investigate. It is the regionally based kilometre tax. It has been forgotten a little bit here in the debate during the day, but it is in fact the East Coast ports that have been pushing hard for a regionally based kilometre tax. Then you can create zones that are so large that you, for example, protect the forest industry in Norrland and other industries. You can then still drive quite cheaply by truck against transhipment to rail and shipping if you want to carry longer transport. This is a very good balance for protecting domestic industries and not having to make exceptions for every industry, so that eventually you have no mileage tax. With a nice zoning in Sweden it is not so expensive to drive within your own zone. It may then cost hardly anything extra or nothing at all. When you drive into a new zone it costs, and you drive into a third zone it costs even more. This way of resolving the issue would mean that we could, on the one hand, eliminate long-distance transport and, on the other hand, benefit both shipping and rail. This is a very wise proposal from a climate perspective. I have spoken to several players on the opposing side of the mileage tax who have found this very interesting. I think we can move forward here. If the bourgeois side does not want to be involved, we will be able to bring the industries with us if we have a wise and balanced discussion. It is very important that we try to do so, because we need to get climate control measures that steer away from the amount of trucks we have on our roads. We see early signs that our climate is about to fall apart if we are not careful. We see the warming of the oceans, the melting of ice in the Arctic and an increasing number of forest fires. All these things are mechanisms that can cause us to lose control if they go too far, so that we no longer live under anthropic, as science says, the geological age we have where man is the strongest driving force. We are, as it were, planet keepers, gardeners of the planet. At this point we can influence developments, but if this continues we will not be able to do so. It's really scary how fast we see these mechanisms get started. I read about this in my biology education about 12 to 15 years ago and never thought I would experience it during my lifetime. But I get to see it with my own eyes, and it's very scary. It is therefore important that we have climate action and follow global developments. A great deal of change is now taking place globally, and we have to keep up. I would also like to highlight the specific opinion we have in the report. This concerns heavy oil, which has been discussed in the Nordic Council to ban in the Arctic. We think it is very important that the government push for a ban, because the heavy oil forms particles on the ice and makes the ice darker and the albedot changes, so that heat is sucked in instead of being reflected to the earth's crust. It also makes the ice melt faster. It is therefore extremely important to put this in place. It is important that the government picks up this issue and supports the others in pushing for a ban on heavy oil within the IMO. It would not be negative if it were also introduced in more areas. There is also a reservation in the report on the Baltic Sea with regard to heavy oil. We need to strengthen the work to get a functioning infrastructure throughout Sweden when it comes to sustainable transport. Studies have been carried out on transport between Stockholm and Västerås and Örebro to look at how to achieve intermodality and a coordinated route with shipping and rail, and they managed to reduce energy consumption by almost 80 percent. For the maritime option alone, the reduction in CO2 emissions was between 15 and 60% depending on the speed with which ships were transported. It is extremely important that we strengthen such a development and get an infrastructure in place and that we talk and are responsive, which I think the Riksdag may sometimes miss. We need to talk very close to the ground with those who depend on our decisions, follow up and try to find the crack issues that need to be resolved.
i-715095a36e069253-730	Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on the sulphur directive a little bit. I guess we'll just have to keep the trays in the right place. The sulphur issue is really an incredibly good example of international work and international agreements. It is not the case that Sweden introduced a sulphur directive unilaterally. But, of course, Sweden was in favour of the IMO. Then it went to the EU. The EU as an organisation went partly ahead, but we had the same demands on us. Then I fully agree with Emma Wallrup that anyone who catches this up and realises that it is a business opportunity has every opportunity in the world. There are now many Swedish ideas that have captured this in a very good way, really after some convulsions regarding the consequences. What I think the major requirements will apply is control of the system. We were down in the harbour of Gothenburg not long ago and saw how the Fortress of Älvsborg had set up a so-called nicker in order to look at the exhaust gases. There would have been a lot of boats that came with sulphuric oil. But they had just been called and said: We see that you have too much sulphur. Then it had dropped dramatically. It was almost zero. No one drove into Gothenburg harbour with sulphuric oil anymore. This control will be the big issue. It was really just a comment. I don't have any other questions.
i-715095a36e069253-733	Madam President, I would like Lars Tysklind and I were in the Environmental Target Committee together when this decision was made. We prepared it in the Environmental Objectives Committee, and all parties that sat there stood behind Sweden's position. That's when this work started. As I said in my main speech, it was we in the Baltic Sea countries who took the lead. It is a region that is larger than Sweden. I absolutely agree with Lars Tysklind that we need better control of the system in order not to be unfair between the ships in such a way that those who really switch and behave pay and are out of competition by the companies that are not doing well. I'm totally in on this. The Left Party has also previously reserved for this point here in committee – we want a good system of sanctions.
i-715095a36e069253-736	Madam President, I would like Emma from the Left Party raised the issue of mileage tax. She wants to increase the cost of freight transport and reduce the competitiveness of the truck industry. It is a tax from a distance, which increases transport costs for business. In addition, you spoke a little more in detail about how the introduction should take place in different zones and so on. It is an investigation and a proposal which we have not taken note of and which has not really been presented. Since it was such a detailed description of you, Emma, I wonder: Where is this proposal for the introduction of mileage tax that has been described in detail by you in the speaker's chair? Do the government parties and the Left Party have a hidden agreement that is not yet public when it comes to introducing mileage taxes?
i-715095a36e069253-739	Madam President, I would like It's not a secret. It's in the budget. In the latest budget, the wording is regionally based mileage tax. If you do not know the background to the writing, I can understand that it is a new phenomenon that may surprise you. But it is not something strange, but something that the government is now investigating after our budgetary cooperation. We've thought it's a very good idea to watch. It's a regionally based mileage tax. Please read more about it. It is mainly East Coastal ports in cooperation that have been the driving force in this. It's in Austria, I think it was. It's about dividing the country into zones. It is a very good model that means that you don't have to make all the exceptions for different industries but still can protect the local industry so that it is strong and can build a robust economy. I think we will need to have a discussion. This is especially true up in Norrland where we are considering various compensatory measures. Even if we put a good zone in Norrland I know that they feel very squeezed from the beginning, and they have been on the exception so incredibly long historically. In order to get many of us on this, I think we will also have to discuss several measures. Even if you put a small charge on Norrland, they get very upset. I have just been up to debate the issue there. There were still many who were positive and many in the industry who can see for themselves the benefits of it. If we are to save the climate, we must strike a balance between the industries, the citizens and achieving climate objectives effectively. That is a very clever proposal from that point of view.
i-715095a36e069253-744	Madam President, I would like The answer made no sense to me. I understand that you have an agenda in the Left Party to tax everything that can be taxed without taking into account the competitiveness of business, the growth of the country and so on. But I'll stick to the question. That's a very strange answer on your part. We heard representatives of the government parties a little while ago. None of them have mentioned that there is a proposal ready to introduce mileage tax. You stand here and tell me first that it's under investigation. Then you say that it is included in any draft budget. In what draft budget is the so-called kilometre tax?
i-715095a36e069253-747	Madam President, I would like I can get it out and then show it to you in committee. It is in the last budget to be presented. There is a clear statement that regionally based mileage taxes should be investigated. It's very clear. Then there is a new concept. I can understand why you may not think about it if you have not immersed yourself in the concept. But it is clear. Anyone can go in and read it in the last budget. It is not that the Left Party is anti-nutritional. However, we want a robust economy. We don't want an economic bubble bursting. We do not want a globalised system that allows us to build everything just for the very largest companies. We want to protect small businesses, local production, local jobs and the environment. We need to build our business community in a well-thought-out way where we set the regulations exactly where they are needed. There should be not too much regulation, but the exact ones needed to save the planet, protect the economy and protect the citizen, the worker, the future of our children and also our children here and now. We need to have all those perspectives when we build enterprise policy. That is why we do not believe in the free hand of the market. It has been demonstrated in recent years that there have been incredible accidents when we unleashed the climate, social and economic markets. The OECD and a great many other players point out that the increase in disparities and the concentration of capital that has taken place since the liberalisation of this kind is harmful to both the economy and the human and the environment. We need to find a new balance. It stands for the Left Party.
i-D8ZpBkdtRsbp9umQTXbEot	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report No 20 which deals with new targets for renewable electricity in the electricity certification system and the Committee on Economic Affairs' report No 25 on agreements with Norway on the same subject with an adjustment in the electricity certification system. I would like to begin by calling for reservations 1 and 2 in the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 20 and for reservation 1 in report 25. The electricity certification system is a support system designed to stimulate so-called renewable energy sources. Since its introduction in 2003, the system has contributed a number of positive effects. It is specially linked to newly established base power in the power system. There, hydroelectric power stations were initially upgraded and cogeneration plants were also built or district heating systems were supplemented by a turbine to obtain power generation. In recent years, however, more has gone on to deal exclusively with subsidies for weather-dependent power plants and, in particular, wind power. Of the electricity certificates issued in 2004, at the beginning of the system's creation, 92 per cent went to power generation that was planned and therefore not dependent on weather conditions. It is a level which has gradually fallen and which, last year, amounted to just over a third. Instead, it is wind power that now receives more than two out of three issued electricity certificates in the system. Madam President, I would like Since joining this House, the Swedish Democrats have criticised the electricity certification system with the subsidies that are mainly now directed at weather-dependent power strokes. The arguments put forward are as valid today as on all previous occasions. Both during the alliance years and under the rule of red-green, political failure has led to countless subsidies being pumped into what you think on an ideological basis is fine and good. This is the driving force behind the energy market crisis that has arisen and has created the oversupply that the market has not demanded. This may not always lead to what is initially envisaged. The effects of climate policy in terms of greenhouse gas emissions are likely to be troubling if the ambition is to reduce them. Swedish electricity generation is already almost free of carbon dioxide emissions since it consists mainly of nuclear and hydro power that is fossil-free. Paradoxically, the impact of the policy instruments can lead to increased emissions as a result of greater demands on natural resources, where, for example, the addition of solar power results in significantly higher emissions of carbon dioxide per unit of energy from a life cycle perspective than the level already prevailing in the Swedish power system. There is an increasing need to expand the Swedish power grid. It is a consequence of being able to exploit the ever more widespread solar and wind power production that the parties behind the energy agreement want to grow even more. To this will also be added the risk of increased operating times on our oil condensate power plants in the power reserve as well as imports of coal power to meet the power requirement during cold winter days. Madam President, I would like Sweden also exported net electricity in 2016. This means that Sweden for the sixth year in a row is a net exporter of electricity. This is something that the parties behind the energy agreement have taken on board and obviously consider it to be a good thing. The Government's proposal also proposes that the obligation in future should follow the development of our electricity use. There may be some advantages to this, we can also admit, but it also ensures that, regardless of the development of electricity use, we will ensure that we have a production surplus in Sweden that will be exported to other countries. This is something that will inevitably put pressure on the production facilities that are outside the electricity certification system and that are likely to put us in a serious crisis of power over the next decade. Here, too, the Swedish Democrats have been the only party that has repeatedly criticised Swedish exports of electricity, which are exclusively subsidised and which, in the case of Sweden, have absolutely no financial incentives. There has been a complete lack of any kind of critical input or problematising from any other party in this House. A referral from the Institute of Economic Affairs to the Energy Commission's report highlights its thoughts on the increased ambition of the electricity certification system. It is said that an increase in ambition is likely to lead to increased electricity exports, lower spot prices and higher electricity prices for quota consumers in Sweden. At the margin, the price of electricity in the EU is likely to fall. Swedish consumers will thereby subsidise the use of electricity by households and companies in the EU without leading to any emission reductions. ..................................................... In clear terms: Swedish electricity consumers' hard-earned money will now more widely subsidise the use of electricity by households and companies in countries such as Denmark, Finland and Germany, to which we are net exporting electricity. In addition, they will have to pay for extensions of transmission capacity in order to get rid of the power that has been subsidised from the outset. This does not lead to any emission reductions at all, and it certainly does not mean that the security of supply in our power system will be strengthened in the long term. Madam President, I would like Despite this, the government, with the parties supporting the energy agreement, now chooses to extend and increase the ambition of the electricity certification system. In spite of these problems, more of the medicine that created the problems from the very beginning is recommended. The time should have come instead to start the decommissioning of the electricity certification system before the consequences are too great.
i-715095a36e069253-767	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by making a reflection that will have an impact on the length of my contributions to today's debates. I've got three of them to deal with tonight. I was here yesterday listening to all the party leaders and noted that if they now arrange to do a seven-minute social analysis I should be able to make a description of my positions regarding electricity certificates or something else limited in less time than that. Here we in the Committee on Economic Affairs have been creative and combined the debates on NU25 and NU20, which deal with electricity certification systems and the market for them. First to the agreement with Norway and the amendments to it. I would just like to make a brief request for approval of the proposal. So it's NU25 I'm talking about. Then to report NU20, which deals with new targets for renewable electricity and the control station for the electricity certification system. At least there is no need to doubt that there are political differences in what the various parties want with the electricity certification system. According to the agreement made with three bourgeois parties, the government wants to raise the level of ambition within the electricity certification system. It's good and welcome. However, the world's energy consumption is constantly increasing and it is still coal, oil and gas that dominate energy production. In view, among other things, of the fact that the climate issue is the destiny of our time, this development is not sustainable, but must be broken. I and the Left Party want Sweden to be a forerunner in the transition to a renewable energy system that takes responsibility for future generations. Investments in the Swedish energy system are an important and necessary part of the environmental and climate transition in Sweden. Focusing on renewable natural resources – sun, wind, water and forest – is essential if the goal of ecologically sustainable society is to be achieved. That is why, Madam President, I and the Left Party think that it would have been even better if the bow had been further tightened, started earlier than 2020 and proposed a higher level of ambition than that proposed in the bill. We also raise the question of whether peat should still be included in the electricity certification system. It will be a bit tricky if you can totally call peat renewable and use it for electricity generation. I can agree that open peat is to be extracted when it is already dewatered and so on, and I am aware of the good properties of peat when it is incorporated into poorer fuels in power plants. However, the fact that it does not provide information about its phasing out seems a little weak. Just a little bit about the industry. The industry benefits from a low electricity price that may be due to the electricity certification system but does not have to contribute to this at all. Some people think that the industry could perhaps contribute. For time-winning, Madam President, I only support reservation 3 of the report, which deals with a higher level of ambition.
i-715095a36e069253-780	Madam President, I would like The warming of the earth through increased carbon dioxide emissions is the main future challenge for our generation. Thanks to hydroelectric power, nuclear power and investments in renewable electricity, Sweden has a safe and efficient electricity production at competitive prices with small greenhouse gas emissions. Liberals want to protect Sweden's climate-smart energy system. The extension of the electricity certification system and the support for offshore wind energy mean new money from taxpayers to electricity generation despite the fact that the electricity market is already so saturated that no new investments are profitable. Liberals welcome all forms of emission-free electricity generation – but it will be built when needed and on a market-based basis. The electricity certification system means that mature technology will be subsidised for another 30 years until 2045. According to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, the extension of the electricity certification system may cost up to SEK 100 billion depending on assumptions regarding electricity price development in the future. In addition, subsidies to offshore wind power of up to tens of billions of dollars are added. The costs of these subsidies will be borne primarily by electricity producers, in particular water and nuclear energy owners, who do not benefit from the subsidies. In the long term, however, the costs must be borne in one way or another by the final consumer. The proposals in the bill include extending the electricity certification system to 2045 and extending it by 18 terawatt hours by 2030. There are different basic models for how the so-called quota curve in the electricity certification system can be designed, which in turn governs the development of the desired renewable electricity generation. The proposal proposes a linear quota curve for the electricity certificates, i.e. one despite the Swedish Energy Agency's assessment that a batch-heavy quota curve gives the lowest cost to the electricity customer. The Liberals regret that the government chooses not to go on the expert authority's assessment. Madam President, I would like As all electricity generation in the EU is part of the common EU ETS trading system with a pre-determined emission path, there is no climate benefit in extending this particular electricity certification system. On the contrary, increased subsidies for renewable electricity lead to a fall in the price of emission allowances and an increase in the profitability of coal power. Increased subsidies in Sweden, like the previous speaker, can therefore have the consequence that the shift away from fossil electricity generation in the rest of Europe is made more difficult or at least delayed. While disregarding the EU ETS and counting on the climate benefits of the electricity certification system as a single measure, emissions reductions are low while costs are high compared to investments or measures in other sectors. Madam President, I would like The vision for energy policy should be long-term and sustainable, aiming at climate-neutral energy supply, with the highest possible security of supply and energy security. Energy supply almost always creates some form of environmental impact. Fossil fuels damage the climate and pollute the air. Nuclear power creates hazardous waste that needs to be handled. And renewable energy, which is not a finite resource, can also affect nature and deplete biodiversity. The environmental and climate impacts of the energy system shall be reduced by smart energy efficiency measures and the gradual introduction of climate-neutral energy sources. In order to drive greening, general regulations are needed to ensure that the polluter pays; we have proposed this in the Liberals' budget motion. Socio-economically, it is considerably cheaper to punish what is going away than to subsidise what is going in. I would like to conclude by saying that I regret the fact that it has chosen to submit the proposal for an extension of the electricity certification system and would therefore like to ask for reservation 1 under paragraph 1 and reservation 4 under paragraph 2.
i-715095a36e069253-793	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposals in the NU20 and NU25 reports, which are affected by this debate, to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Today we are debating the largest expansion of renewable electricity in Sweden's history, and it is extremely enjoyable to be part of this. In concrete terms, it is about the Riksdag now taking a position on a bill where the electricity certification system is extended to 2045 and expanded with 18 terawatt hours of renewable electricity by 2030. It may be difficult to grasp how much 18 terawatt hours are, but this corresponds roughly to the total electricity consumption in Stockholm County for one year. This proposal is based on the Energy Agreement between the Government Parties, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, where we just agreed that the electricity certification system should be extended and expanded with new electricity certificates corresponding to 18 terawatt hours by 2030. According to the Energy Agreement, Sweden's energy policy should rest on the same three pillars as EU energy policy: ecological sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply. Sweden must have a robust electricity system with high security of supply, low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. For us Social Democrats, the historic expansion of renewable electricity production that we are debating here today is, of course, an important part of the bridge that is needed to reach the target of 100% renewable electricity production. We want an orderly transition to 100% renewable, where nuclear power is gradually replaced by renewable energy and energy efficiency. We will have a well-functioning electricity system with high security of supply and competitive prices even when nuclear power is gone. Madam President, I would like Jobs and welfare in Sweden depend on good and reliable access to electricity at competitive prices. Our common opportunity to cope with the climate and the environment depends on us changing to a more sustainable energy system. This transition is in turn also a prerequisite for our competitiveness and our ability to develop and retain welfare and jobs in Sweden. A clear example of the fact that access to secure and renewable electricity is an important competitive advantage is that more and more companies are calling for renewable electricity, as they see that their customers appreciate that they are taking climate responsibility. For example, we have already seen companies that need large server halls locate these in Sweden. An increasing share of renewable electricity thus strengthens Sweden's attractiveness for companies that want to show that they take responsibility in the transition to more renewable energy. Sweden has better conditions than most to expand renewable energy and renewable electricity production through our good access to water, wind and forest. Sweden should be a pioneer country and demonstrate that clear climate and energy policy objectives, together with concrete instruments such as this, provide long-term stable conditions for a quick way out of the fossil society. This is important for our own competitiveness and for us to take our own responsibility for future generations. But it also plays a role in our ability to influence other countries to take climate responsibility and expand renewables. Sweden is an important country in the international climate work. If we can continue to show that the expansion of renewables can go hand in hand with competitiveness and prosperity, it can cause more countries to also dare to invest in renewables. Madam President, I would like The expansion of renewable electricity production that we are debating today is also historic in that it gathers such a great deal of support in the Swedish Parliament because it is a d el of the Energy Agreement. This is a huge strength, as it enables market players to trust that the system will be maintained and stable over time. The electricity certification system is not perfect. However, in comparison with many other renewable energy support schemes in the world around us, there are clear benefits in that the electricity certification system is market-based and technology-neutral and governs competition between power types in the entire lifecycle of the plant. In addition, it has been very cost-effective. Madam President, I would like The proposal involves a linear escalation of 18 terawa thours starting in 2022, which is the year in which the possibility for new Norwegian plants to obtain electricity certificates ceases. This is an important message to investors. At the same time, there should be no increase in ambition by 2020, but the expansion beyond the 2020 target should contribute to the new target of 18 terawatt hours. It is important to increase the expansion of renewable electricity production already now so that Sweden is better equipped for a possible situation with impaired power balance. Hopefully, the electrification of not least the transport sector will take off, and then it may be that the need for electricity will not fall even if we succeed in energy efficiency. Another important aspect of continuing the expansion now is the further diversification of the electricity generation system, thereby contributing to increased security of supply. Electricity production in Sweden today is heavily dependent on nuclear power and hydropower. This means that, when the availability of nuclear power plants is low or when it is dry years, there is a need for other electricity generation. There, the renewable electricity generation generated by the electricity certification system can play an important role. A steady pace of expansion also makes it easier for the industry because it could lead to skills supply problems if the expansion is to stay still for several years and then quickly get started again. Madam President, I would like This proposal also implements measures to remedy market imbalances more quickly. We bring forward the demand for electricity certificates corresponding to three terawatt hours of the reserve of electricity certificates that have existed since we merged with Norway and outsource them in 2018 and 2019 to provide a better balance between supply and demand for electricity certificates. We also consider that an extension of the system will take care of the risk of a possible price collapse if the target for 2020 entails an oversupply. With this extension of the system, it is also possible to decide in good time how to complete the electricity certification system. One issue that has been heated is the need for a stop rule in some form. The absence of a stopping rule can lead to an oversupply of electricity certificates and hence a price collapse. The risk may affect new investments and also the achievement of objectives. Norway already has a stopping rule whereby no new installations put into operation after 31 December 2021 can be approved for the allocation of electricity certificates. This proposal proposes that a stop mechanism for the new 2030 target should be decided by the end of 2020. Before that time, the Swedish Energy Agency, on behalf of the Government, will analyse and make proposals for the design of such a mechanism. In particular, the pros and cons of two possible designs should be analysed, namely the introduction of a volume-related stop mechanism compared to the introduction of a time limit. Madam President, I would like The proposal also contains proposals that facilitate electrification of the fleet of vehicles. These simplification proposals mean that, for example, a property owner who supplies electricity to a charging station will no longer be subject to obligations but will instead be moved to an earlier marketing stage – an important simplification that will hopefully help make driving an electric car more attractive. The electricity certification system is in common with Norway, and we agree with them on how the system will develop. This agreement is also included in the agreement with Norway which we are also discussing in this debate. Overall, the proposal for an extension and a new target of 18 terawatt hours for the electricity certification system and the agreement with Norway means that the electricity market operators will now be given clear information about what will apply in the future. Madam President, I would like I am proud that Sweden continues to expand the renewables, both because I like renewables and because I like production development and innovations. For Sweden as a country, it is extremely important to be at the forefront of everything related to green technology and green conversion. If there is one thing we know about the future, it is that the need and demand for green technologies worldwide will increase. In order to cope with Sweden's competitiveness, and thus jobs and welfare, we as a country must continue to invest in new green technologies.
i-715095a36e069253-817	Madam President, I would like Åsa Westlund mentioned that this is the largest expansion. She was just talking about how much electricity this increase in ambition means. It has been a very long time since Sweden had problems to support itself on energy. Now is the sixth year in a row that Sweden is the net exporter of electricity. It will be further strengthened. I have previously asked questions about the financial incentives. They may be secondary to some who feel that you can handle other people's money in a less responsible way. But if you look at our country's needs, it is not about being able to support ourselves energy-wise, but the big challenge is the impact situation in winter, when it is dark and cold and we have a great need for effect. One can think about what this change will mean for Sweden. In what way will the electricity certification system steer towards maintaining or increasing security of supply? It would be interesting to have an answer to this. In addition to this, installations outside the electricity certification system will have a more difficult financial situation. There we have facilities that have only a high capacity factor. The installations entering the electricity certification system have a very low capacity factor. Then a question to Åsa Westlund : How do you think the average capacity factor will develop during this time?
i-715095a36e069253-821	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the questions! I think I talked a lot about security of supply in my speech and how the expansion of renewables contributes to it by diversifying our energy system and also providing for a different type of electricity generation than water and nuclear power. It is not always that nuclear power is available, and it is not always that we have a lot of water in the spring magazine. Then we also need other power. The nuclear power plants we have today will not exist forever. I note that the Swedish Democrats have no answers to how the Swedish energy supply should be secured in the long term. Instead, you are putting all your hope in new nuclear power – that electricity will be so expensive for consumers that new nuclear power can be built. You do this at the same time as nuclear power owners themselves believe that new reactors in Sweden are a non-issue that is overplayed by both technology development and economic realities. With today's rules, no new nuclear power is being built, hardly even if the electricity certification system is removed. My question to you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, is therefore: What is your solution? Do you attach all your hope to the small research efforts that we are doing to solve the problem? What do you do if that research doesn't solve the problem?
i-715095a36e069253-824	Madam President, I would like It was probably not much of a response to how one sees the average capacity factor falling. Will this affect security of supply? You put your hope in plants that have extremely low capacity factors, which you can't control either. That's the difference. If we are to maintain a high level of security of supply, we need to maintain a level of capacity so that we can control and know that it can be at that level. We are only steering towards weather-dependent power generation, we will not be able to control this. Then we'll have a reduced security of supply. There is no mechanism in the proposal to ensure that in future we can have a high level of security of supply. On the contrary, here we are going to attack those plants that have a high capacity factor and put us in a regrettable situation, where we are at risk of major power shortages and are forced to deal with scarcity situations by disconnecting parts of the electricity grid. This is not the future that we in the Swedish Democrats want to see in terms of how to deal with this. No facilities are currently being built that do not receive subsidies. This has been seen politically by having a low market price. Then you have to have some kind of extra compensation to be able to build. The problem now is that there is no direction towards what you want. If we are to get this right in the future, we must steer towards maintaining a high level of security of supply and solving our country's concerns about the power system. Then it's about being able to solve the situation in winter when it's cold and we have a high need for effect. There must also be a link between price and cost. Again, I ask the question: in what way do we think that the electricity certification system will contribute to maintaining security of supply or a higher level of security of supply? One cannot put one's hope in facilities that are weather dependent. You can't make sure that they produce when the need exists.
i-715095a36e069253-828	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for another question! I say you didn't answer mine. It is also clear that the Swedish Democrats do not see any risks with nuclear power. Even now, when the security situation in the world looks like it does, you do not see any risks with nuclear power. For me, nuclear power is something that we should replace with better solutions if we have the opportunity, and now we have that opportunity. Let's take advantage of it. In the world of Sweden's democrats, nuclear power is always there. It's just ticking and walking. It never faces new challenges. This is not really the experience we have. Sometimes the reactors stand still. We have also gradually discovered the need for new safety requirements. This is also what has led some reactor owners in Sweden to say that they are not prepared to invest that money. Such things can happen again, Mattias Bäckström Johansson. Then you stand there with your confidence that nuclear power will solve the problem. In any case, the reactors we have today will not exist forever. No new nuclear power is being built in the world today without major state aid, and I have not seen the Swedish Democrats invest anything in their budget to build new nuclear power in Sweden.
i-715095a36e069253-834	Madam President, I would like A little over a year ago, the major issue of energy policy was the future of nuclear power. We were then able to read in the media worrying descriptions that the risk was that all nuclear power in Sweden would be shut down within the next three to four years, i.e. almost 40% of Swedish electricity production. It was a combination of low electricity prices, high costs and, above all, high taxation. There were major investment needs ahead of them. That made it challenging for nuclear power. It was also rightly raised questions: Will we be able to have a safe and well-functioning electrical system in Sweden in the future? The government did not have the ability to deal properly with this challenge itself and chose instead to invite to negotiations. After a few months of discussion and negotiation, we agreed on an important and wise energy agreement. It contains a number of different parts. Let me point out a couple. Hydropower is to be strengthened by changing the law and reducing hydro-taxation quite radically. The nuclear tax is to be removed. The rules on nuclear waste are to be changed so that we can have nuclear power for the foreseeable future. We will take advantage of the opportunity to expand more renewable energy. A target for energy efficiency is being developed. We're going to expand power grids and seize technology opportunities. With the Energy Agreement, five parties have solved a number of important and a little more pressing challenges for Sweden and the Swedish electricity system, which deal with the future of nuclear power, the situation of hydropower and the connection to today's discussion. What should the conditions look like for individuals or entrepreneurs who are considering investing in important new renewable energy in Sweden? Madam President, I would like This is in the light of today's debate on electricity certificates and an agreement between Sweden and Norway. With the decisions we will take next week, we are pursuing an important and crucial part of the energy agreement. I therefore support the committee's proposals in the NU20 and NU25 reports. Having said that, I would also like to point out a few future challenges. Although we have solved a few things now, I think we have to continue the energy policy discussion. I would like to take this opportunity to point out at least three areas that I believe are important for us to move forward. The first is about getting a supply for electricity produced in Sweden. With more production and with ongoing efficiency, there will be a need. It can be about an increased industrial production in Sweden of things like cars or batteries. This could involve increasing electrification, for example, of the transport sector. But it is also, of course, an increased transmission capacity in order to be able to sell electricity produced in Sweden to other countries. The second is that I think we will need to discuss more issues of electricity quality and security of supply. People and businesses should be able to expect that we have a well-functioning system, that electricity is there and that the system works – and rightly so. Energy will not be a problem. But let's be honest and say it's a future discussion we have in terms of power, frequency and voltage. It is also linked to business models and how to charge. Madam President, I would like The third thing I want to highlight is technology development. We can see examples in the energy industry. But we can also look outside this and look at vehicles, mobile phones or other things. Then we can see just what good engineers can do through innovation and development. It is reasonable to assume that we will see more of that kind of development in the energy industry as well in the future. On the other hand, perhaps we should not always count on it politically. Politicians may not be able to identify precise solutions either. But I believe that we have a crucial role to play in standing ready for what is coming. Technology and things that can shake up industries and contexts and that are likely to have an impact in the energy industry, for example, on a Swedish tax system and other laws and regulations. It will be an important task and discussion that we have before us. After we agreed on the energy agreement, we have changed the conditions for Sweden to have nuclear power for the foreseeable future. We are now deciding on a powerful deployment of new renewable energy. One big thing we have ahead of us, I would say, for the rest of the year is about hydropower. The tax issue has been resolved in practice. There's still the law, the regulation. The clear entry of the Moderates into this is to strengthen hydropower. It is the most responsible and what we need in combination with the other in order for households and businesses to have the security of electricity supply system that they can count on.
i-715095a36e069253-844	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I highlighted precisely the lack of financial incentives for exports of electricity that Sweden has had for six consecutive years. In recent years, this has meant that we sell electricity at about half of its production cost. This loss spin now wants the Moderates and other parties in the energy agreement to almost double on the basis of current conditions. They want to change it up and scale it up even more. It would have been a little interesting to hear how the Moderates and Lars Hjälmered think and reason about Sweden's subsidised electricity exports. The direct costs of the increase in ambition alone are estimated at approximately SEK 60 billion, which is therefore largely randomized by subsidised exports. In addition to the SEK 60 billion, additional investments will also be made in extensive grid extensions in order to bring up the transmission capacity, as the capacity factor is very low in the power that will be delivered. The fact that some parties do not see any problem with dealing with other people's money substandardly may be quite understandable. But there is a question you can ask yourself about the planned economic elements: Is there any further limit for the Moderates and Lars Helmered for what you can agree to? Has it been tangled now, or is it prepared to take this one more step further?
i-715095a36e069253-848	Madam President, I would like I think it is reasonable to use Mattias Bäckström Johansson's and other taxpayers' money, for example, for research and demonstration of technology. It is reasonable in a lot of cases to use them to bring new technologies into the market. Madam President, I would like I want to come back to the situation we had in Sweden a little over a year ago, when there was a discussion about this: Will we have nuclear power left at all? It was somewhere where the whole discussion between the parties began. And we landed in a collective agreement on this. It's – if I'm to be honest – also about giving and taking. Politics – let us be honest – is precisely about pragmatism and vision. One should stand firmly in one's party and in one's own opinion. Then we need to be able to compromise in order to achieve results. One example of this is that we are making clear changes to Swedish nuclear power. I can note that the phasing out of the nuclear tax that is now coming is far faster than what the Swedish Democrats have proposed. We make sure to change the conditions for real. My ambition is that together, these five parties, we should be able to do something good for hydropower to gradually strengthen it. As an important part, we have to take advantage of new renewable energy. Then it's about giving and taking. I support this because I think it is right for Sweden in the long term. We see that actors in the energy industry rightly raise some questions: What are future market models like? There may be comments on the details of this arrangement. But there is also recognition for me and others who have been involved in this work. It provides a political long-term perspective and statute. I think this is good for Sweden.
i-715095a36e069253-852	Madam President, I would like It's not really about what might be interesting in such cases. How sustainable is it to scale up such an activity? The Swedish Democrats have absolutely no objection to us exporting electricity. There should still be financial incentives. Lars Hjälmered has a little bit been saying that the most natural thing is to be able to significantly increase the use of electricity in Sweden, find outlets for it and perhaps export electricity in the form of products other than just as a raw material. However, in addition to the fact that there are poor financial incentives for subsidies, planned power generation is at risk of being knocked out. The question is what has been gained if certain costs for hydro and nuclear power have been spent on electricity consumers. Then the subsidies, which are paid by electricity consumers, are pushed up. And then you might knock out the necessary facilities. Then you will have to pay in all these stages without there being any higher security of supply or improved operational safety. On the contrary, there have been enormous social costs to make sure that overall the security of supply in the Swedish power system is impaired. It is this governance that is lacking. It should not be an individual force or energy that is extra important or that one should lift out or that one wants to build on purely ideological principles or because of dogmatic inputs. It's a good security of supply we want. But there is no steering against here. It's completely missing. It will be interesting to see what will happen over the next decade, if additional facilities will be printed out. There I think an interesting question to Lars Hjälmered and the Moderates is: Are you prepared to review the electricity certification system as a whole or precisely the level of ambition if you can see, for example, that this leads to further closures that will threaten the security of supply in Sweden?
i-715095a36e069253-857	Madam President, I would like An entrance deal is in effect. We shall, of course, honor and pursue it. Let us look back eight ten years! At that time, the situation in the Swedish and European electricity and energy markets was quite different. The energy companies cut the nearest gold with a knife. There has been a complete reversal. I think it needs to sink in with us decision-makers. There may be throws and changes for which we must be prepared. The deal that we have made and which forms the basis of today's decision is also about looking at today's situation. These are challenges in nuclear power. It is strategically right to strengthen hydropower and to extend renewable energy. Then we solve a number of challenges and give common information about what will apply in the future. Does that mean that we have solved all the challenges? No, actually, I don't think so. I was in my speech on the subject of technology and things to come and the disposal of electricity. I think we need to have a discussion on electricity grids and electricity grid expansion and, above all, a discussion on economic policy conditions. If we are serious about the importance of industry, we may need to have more discussion. How can we increase industrial production in Sweden? It is about being able to use the possibilities more. This also applies to the discussion on electrification of the transport sector. Our entry into the Moderates is that it is right to be able to use different types of support and subsidies. In the long term, you're supposed to be on your own merits. We think we need different types of production, such as hydroelectric power, nuclear power and different types of new renewable energy. I sometimes think that Mattias Bäckström Johansson breathes that they like to protect nuclear power but almost have an hostility about new technological advances. Solar energy, wind power or other technological advances are by definition poor in this area. I'll defend myself against it. With the technology optimism that I have, I think we should promote all kinds of technological development. Then we have a responsibility to look at tax systems and other things. How can we make a system work? That's our focus.
i-715095a36e069253-862	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Parliament is now behind extending the electricity certification system to 2030 and raising the level of ambition. The electricity certification system sounds very technical, but what this is all about is that we are now ensuring the conditions for the deployment of renewable energy for a long time to come. The electricity certification system is a technology-neutral support for renewable electricity generation such as wind, hydro, bioenergy and solar energy. It can be said that this system has been the backbone of the deployment of renewable electricity in Sweden since its introduction in 2003. The Green Party has always been in favour of the electricity certification system, but we have repeatedly in Parliament since the introduction proposed higher levels of ambition. It is very positive that the parties have now agreed on an extension after 2020. This means an additional 18 tea raw hours between 2020 and 2030. To give a comparison, wind power today provides about 16 terawatt hours overall, so this is another renewable energy investment that will deliver more than the existing wind power production. This decision is thus an important piece of the puzzle in the transition to 100% renewable energy. The goal of the electricity certification system is not a goal like a vision but a financing target. The target now set for 18 terawatt hours further means that the electricity certification market ensures that so much will be built. If many build, there will be lower compensation, and if few build, there will be higher compensation. It is thus a market-based system driven by the supply and demand of renewable electricity. Since the introduction of the electricity licensing system in 2003 to the existing final target in 2020, 30 terawatt hours have been built in the system. If you take it out per year, there will be an expansion rate of 1.2 terawatt hours. The fact that we are now extending the system by 18 terawatt hours in ten years means an extension rate of 1.8 terawatt hours per year. This means that we are increasing the expansion rate of renewable electricity production in Sweden, and this also means that the decision we are now discussing is the single largest investment in renewable electricity production in Sweden's history. An important detail discussed is the so-called quota curve for the new expansion, i.e. the rate. Are renewable electricity production to be built early in 2020, or at the end of 2030? The Swedish Energy Agency proposed a so-called baktung curve which means that the expansion would wait until near 2030. This would mean that the wind power industry in particular would have difficult conditions: first stop the expansion for a number of years and then rebuild the skills. This would jeopardise the Swedish competence in this area, and also the fulfilment of the renewable energy target would be jeopardised. In addition, renewable electricity generation is needed in the near future. Of course, the speed with which we expand renewable energy determines the rate at which we reach the target of 100% renewable energy. The Green Party has made it clear that we do not want to postpone the expansion of renewables. On the contrary, we need to develop renewables in the near future. I am therefore pleased that the parties in this proposal have agreed on a so-called linear quota curve. This would therefore mean bringing the extension forward compared to the proposal we discussed at the outset. The people and companies that own wind power have had a tough period for a while due to low profitability in the market. Those who made early investments when the technology was more expensive have been squeezed in with technology development. Of course, early investors are important in every new industry to develop the technology. The prices of electricity certificates have been very low, which is why there is a large surplus of electricity in the system. There are simply more built than expected. The proposal now under discussion deals with the so-called in-depth reserve. A large part of the existing surplus is removed, which provides a better profitability for those who have made early investments. This ensures good conditions for both existing and future investments in renewable electricity production. Mr President, I would like to Four out of ten nuclear reactors are now shutting down because they are no longer profitable with new safety requirements. The resulting phase-out of electricity generation is compensated by the excess of electricity resulting from the expansion of renewable electricity production. Exactly when the remaining reactors shut down, we do not know today. To ensure that Sweden continues to have a robust electricity system, a buffer with renewable electricity generation is needed. It is therefore a good thing that we are now providing the conditions for a substantial expansion so that we have the competence and the buffer that is needed when nuclear power falls away. As I said, the electricity certification system is a support for renewable energy. It is therefore illogical for peat for electricity to benefit from this aid. Peat is not renewable. Unfortunately, the Center Party chooses to protect the combustion of peat and has not wanted to exclude peat from the electricity certification system. Peat has a climate impact both on the extraction of wetlands and on combustion. There is an inconsistency in the fact that energy peat is supported as renewable in Sweden but in the EU is classified as fossil and thus pays for its climate emissions in the EU ETS. I can see that peat today is a small part of the electricity certification system and hopefully continues to decline. What the five parties agreed in the proposal is to continue to monitor the issue of peat's role in the electricity certification system. There are two parties here that propose to dismantle the support system for renewable energy – the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. It is even the case that the Liberals dropped out of the energy negotiations because they did not accept a continued commitment to renewables. This is unfortunate for Sweden. Renewable energy such as wind power is the cheapest electricity production that can be built in Sweden. Electricity prices are so low today that it is difficult to achieve profitability in any new electricity generation, but wind power with electricity certificates is the most competitive and cheap electricity production that can be built in Sweden. The Swedish Energy Agency has calculated that the electricity certification system is a profit transaction for both companies and households. The small premium of electricity certificates is offset by the fact that new electricity production at low electricity prices is delivered to the electricity market. It is unclear how the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats want to ensure continued investment in new electricity generation. What are their options when they say no to what is most cost-effective? There is no slowing down in the future. Sweden has great opportunities in terms of renewable energy, and with today's debate and decision we are taking a decisive step towards achieving the 100% renewable target.
i-715095a36e069253-884	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday we debated the new climate framework, which we also decided on in today's vote, with new climate targets that say that Sweden until 2045 will have a climate neutral society without net emissions. The Centre Party also has a sub-target on the road of 100% renewable energy by 2040. To achieve this, fossil energy needs to be replaced by renewable energy, while of course using our energy more efficiently than we already do. Thanks to the Centre Party's work in government during the previous two terms of office, Sweden has the highest share of renewables in the EU, an increase of almost 10 percentage points in 2007–2014. Our unique prerequisites for producing renewable energy are not least seen with the growing wind power, which together with hydro and biopower forms the basis of a robust and fully renewable energy system. To make a difference in our neighbourhood, the Center Party wants to improve electricity transmission capacity so that we can export to other countries. It helps more, because in that way we can also compete fossil energy in other countries while at the same time ensuring energy supply here. Then we do climate benefit and create a better security in Sweden. Several other countries are in need of more renewable energy, both to meet their EU targets and to become less dependent on Russian oil and gas. With increased transmission capacity, Sweden and the Nordic countries therefore have the potential to become Europe's green battery. Now, together with Moderates, Christian Democrats, Social Democrats and environmentalists, the Center Party has agreed on a broad and long-term energy agreement based on the Alliance agreement of 2009. It provides stability in the direction of energy policy. The Center Party has long been the driving force to bring about that cross-block agreement, and we have been in all agreements in modern times. It creates a framework and conditions to get this all the way up to 2040 and 2045. The agreement also contains a number of successes for the issues that the Center Party has been pursuing. Among other things, the electricity certification system is now being extended, precisely what we are debating, by 18 terawatt hours of renewable electricity. That is 60% more than today's target. The electricity certificates give renewable electricity stable conditions to grow without burdening the state budget. These are the certificates we are going to decide on next week after the debate. It is simply a question of those who produce renewable electricity getting a certificate which is then traded on the market by those who use electricity. Since its introduction in 2003, the system has delivered powerfully. It has delivered a lot of production at low cost to the consumer. Compare this with other support schemes in Europe. The German system is often cited as an example. Energiewende is highlighted as an example that other countries should look at. Compared to that system, the Swedish system is more efficient from both a production and a cost point of view. We now see that the targets set by 2020 will be met. The third leg, which the Alliance has talked about in its energy agreement, is beginning to take shape. It is important to have several different legs to stand on when producing energy. We become less vulnerable when a force blows problems. This could be about dust safety in hydroelectric power, or it could be about various nuclear accidents in other countries that have an impact on our safety systems. It is uncertain to be dependent on a force. Then the third leg is incredibly important. Wind power is important, and bioenergy is important. And solar power can have great potential in the future. For us in the Center Party, it was an election promise to extend the electricity certification system and expand more renewable energy. We are now delivering on this electoral promise, and we are calling for the proposal in report NU20 and for the draft agreement with Norway to be approved. The system would have been different if the Center Party had ruled. What is said in a negotiating room usually stays in a negotiating room. Therefore, I will not criticise Lise Nordin for the shortcomings she made in the negotiations we had and where I would have liked to have done things differently, not least in terms of how to deal with previous investors. The Center Party was the driving force in the negotiations so that the opening reserve would be different. What other parties respond to things also stays in the negotiating room – in the world I live in. If you want to do differently, you should think about the long-term stable rules of the game. They are based on trust between parties and between people. Then you cannot stand in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament and reveal what has been said in the negotiating room. That is totally unacceptable to me. Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate, and we will be right back to the next item.
i-715095a36e069253-897	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to make a long speech because most people have mentioned what this is all about. I would just like to briefly remind any audience and viewers that we are actually dealing with two reports. The debate applies not only to the electricity certification system itself, but also to the agreement between Sweden and Norway on a common electricity certification market. You can enjoy how the electricity certification system is designed from the beginning, what you can do with it and so on. But now we have the certification system we have and the agreement we have and with which I and the Christian Democrats are largely satisfied. We want a renewable society. No one should have any doubts about that. The only question is how we get there. I personally think it is incredibly good that negotiations have been made with Norway and that there is a stop mechanism in the system set for 31 December 2020. It is a limit for new installations to obtain an allocation of electricity certificates and to enter the system. I do not intend to dwell on the subject more than that, Mr President. Most of it's said. I support the proposals in the NU20 and NU25 reports.
i-715095a36e069253-902	Mr President, I would like to The subject of the debate is the Committee on Economic Affairs' report The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the conditions for safe power transmission. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the report. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the government's and the Swedish Power Network's governance towards a secure power transfer at socio-economically defensible costs. It is an important review that basically involves the efficient and efficient management of our tax money. We should be able to trust that electricity is in contact when we need it, and we should not suffer unnecessary power cuts with all that that means for individuals and companies. The focus of the review is the financial and operational governance of the Swedish power grid and the expansion of the core network in the light of the transition towards more renewable energy sources. In a letter to the Riksdag, the Government has explained how it views the Swedish National Audit Office's report and how it intends to proceed with the issues it expresses. The Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment that it is important that the governance of Swedish power networks is developed and will therefore continuously develop the governance. The Government has also initiated a review of Svenska Kraftnät's financial targets, which is expected to be completed by the latest until the 2018 budget proposal. Financial governance of Swedish power networks is strongly linked to electricity grid regulation and how the revenue framework of electricity grid companies is calculated. In recent years, the method of calculating revenue frameworks has undergone changes and has been the subject of lengthy court proceedings. This, in turn, has contributed to the government's review going on for a long time. The Government has also indicated that it intends to give a mandate to the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to further identify the types of effects that should be quantified in the context of the socio-economic profitability assessment. That's good. The costs of network deployment should be assessed in relation to the costs of taking other measures, such as improved demand response and energy storage – not least given the very long time taken to build new pipelines. On the question, a unanimous committee has also supported an announcement to the government, which means that the government should investigate the need for an independent actor to carry out socio-economic profitability assessments in network investments as a complement to the socio-economic profitability assessments that Swedish power grids today are responsible for carrying out and returning to the Riksdag thereafter. The committee also rejects claims from the Moderates, Christian Democrats, Liberals and the Center Party regarding shorter processing times and that Svenska Kraftnät must develop its dialogue and consultations and increase transparency in connection with its investments. It's easy to share opinions. The Government has also explained in detail how it intends to continue to follow up and work on the issues. We therefore feel that there is no reason to accept the requests. They simply break in already open doors. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office takes a clear position on security of supply targets for the entire electricity network. That is a little strange, given that there is far from agreement that this would be the right way to go. It is important that security of supply is high, but there are, as the government points out, risks with a controlling supply security target because it can lead to over-investment in electricity generation. This could mean increased costs for customers. This also risks leading to a situation in which Svenska Kraftnät's mission is changed and the division between network owners and producers that currently exist is thus confused. I note that former Director General Mikael Odenberg has also reacted to this and has criticised the Swedish National Audit Office's report on this point. Nevertheless, there are reasons to closely monitor the power balance in the Swedish electricity market in the future. In order to identify and make visible any challenges with the long-term energy supply, the Government will therefore complement the mission of the Swedish power grid today to make an assessment of the annual power balance with an assessment of the conditions for maintaining the power balance in the long term. Therefore, there is also no reason to accept claims to that effect. Once again, it's about breaking open doors. The government also says that it is important that the assessment of the security of supply is made on the basis of the relevant market, which is normally the Nordic region, but that the relevant market changes depending on production, consumption and transmission opportunities. Mr President, I would like to This is therefore a report with few differences in substance and not least the Alliance in its motion kicks in several open doors. It's nothing unusual; we've seen it before. What is new is that the Alliance chooses to adapt its texts so that the Swedish Democrats' request will also be partly approved. It's new. And that is sad, not least because the Center Party and the Liberals are in on this. It's hard to understand why. In order to get through a proposal for an announcement which, in substance, opens completely open doors, you choose to adapt to the Swedish Democrats and thus abandon their principles of not doing just that. We Social Democrats have promised never to start adapting our policy towards the Swedish Democrats. This attitude is based on the understanding that the Swedish Democrats are not a party like others. It's a racist party with Nazi roots. That is why it is a party that we do not want to help normalize by giving them the opportunity to appear influential.
i-715095a36e069253-916	Mr President, I would like to Households and companies in Sweden should be able to count on a secure electricity supply. Saying it may sound almost banal in this context. But that is really what Swedish energy policy at its core is about: a secure electricity supply. Historically, industry has been able to rely on electricity being there, prices being fair and we have had a minimal environmental impact in our electricity production. It has been an advantage for Sweden, and it is important that it continues to be an advantage. In order to be able to have a secure and functioning system, Sweden needs reasonable conditions for electricity generation, transmission and use, as well as a functioning market and a readiness to politically address technological achievements and progress that take place given how it can affect tax systems and other things. I believe that a major issue in the coming years will be the electricity grids and their roll-out. It is about the local and regional networks that we as customers meet, about discussions and price levels and other conditions and of course also about questions about the core network that Swedish power networks have and use. This applies both to the expansion in Sweden and between Sweden and the neighbouring countries. The opinion of the Moderates is that we need an increased network expansion to meet Swedish needs. It is about taking electricity from production in Norrland down to consumption in southern Sweden as well as connecting Sweden further with neighbouring countries. In fact, we have a Nordic and a Nordic – Baltic market. Then it is reasonable that we are closely linked. In this context, I think it might be appropriate to point out that, for our Baltic friends, electricity cable is not just a question of energy supply and transmission but, in fact, a question of security of supply and, ultimately, security policy. The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out an audit of the state-owned operator Svenska Kraftnät and made several recommendations. We note that the government has taken on board a great deal of the criticism. The Alliance takes the issue very seriously and has chosen to put forward a number of proposals that we believe would strengthen the Swedish power grid and the electricity system in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Firstly, we want to cut the processing times for network investments. Today it can take ten years away from having an idea for switching on a new power cable. It doesn't make sense. It is not reasonable in this, nor in other parts of construction, environmental permits for industries or other activities. Secondly, it is about the socio-economic analyses that Swedish power grids do. We believe that they simply need to be better informed about investment decisions. This is what the Swedish National Audit Office says, and it now says a united Committee on Economic Affairs. I assume that the Government will effect the next Parliament's decisions correctly immediately. Thirdly, we believe that Swedish power networks need to perform recurring power analysis. The issue of impact will become increasingly important for Sweden. Energy will be achieved, but the issue of impact will become increasingly important. Today you look at how you get by, that is, here and now. It is reasonable to also raise your eyes to see what happens in a few years' time and also to take in this that we are just a Nordic – Baltic common market. What is happening in Sweden, and what is happening in neighbouring countries? As far as I know, the government has not made a decision. One can think of that idea, and I think it is perfectly reasonable that Parliament should be clear and say, as a majority now does, that this should happen. I assume that the government will follow through on this. Mr President, I would like to Fourthly, we want to give Svenska Kraftnät a mission to develop its work in terms of dialogue and consultation. When you expand this type of grid, you break various social interests against each other. It is, on the one hand, about getting a functioning electricity system and electricity grids, that is, the needs of the state and of public society. It usually violates individual ownership rights on the other hand. It is often a matter of individual landowners and a land invasion and expropriation. It may be perfectly reasonable to do so, but it must be done in a better way than is often the case today when it comes to the forms of dialogue and consultation. We believe that this mission should be clarified. Shorter processing times, better socio-economic impact assessments, recurring impact analyses and better dialogue and consultation are important building blocks for a functioning electricity grid and a secure electricity supply. To conclude, Mr President, I would only like to endorse Amendment No 3, although I naturally support all our proposals in the report.
i-715095a36e069253-929	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Westlund from the Social Democrats has gone through the report and the proposals that are before us in an exemplary way, so I do not need to do that again. Let me, however, add to that. It is important that power transmission is expanded in a socio-economic way. The electricity network is, of course, facing major challenges when Sweden changes to a fully renewable electricity system. But it is also the case that the existing electricity grid is old and needs to be upgraded. In assessing what is economically profitable, it is also important to see what opportunities are offered with new technologies, such as battery solutions and flexibility. The need to build new electric cables can sometimes be replaced by more flexible use of electricity or energy storage. This may be more socio-economically wise. I welcome the fact that the Government highlights this in its response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. When the electricity grid in Sweden was expanded, electricity from a number of large power plants was to be delivered to consumers. Today we have a growing proportion of consumers who also produce their own electricity and sometimes supply excess electricity online. Decentralised and small-scale electricity generation is growing. This is a development that can both make the grid more stable and can reduce the need for new cables. I welcome the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the work on the electricity expansion of the Swedish power grid and that we are therefore given the opportunity to discuss the policy's governance for power transmission. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-715095a36e069253-934	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. A functioning transmission system is crucial for a good electricity supply in Sweden. Not least in the future, we see that this is becoming increasingly important. It is becoming more important to transport large quantities of electricity, mainly from north to south, but also between Sweden and other countries. Because just like Lars Helmered said, it's sometimes more than just electricity we're transporting. When we build a cable to Lithuania, we build a cable that transports safety, because it makes them less dependent on Russian oil and gas. In Sweden, it is also about some of the renewable energy sources being variable. The weather simply affects how much they deliver. The great advantage we have in Sweden and the crown jewel in the Swedish energy system is hydropower. Combined with biopower, it can cover up when it does not blow, but then electricity must also be transported from north to south when it does not blow as much or when the sun does not shine as brightly. Therefore, it is important to have good conditions and clear rules of play for how society should act when power lines are built, because we will have to build them. This applies not least to the largest power lines that affect many people and require both large investments and land masses to be used. Then it is also important to take seriously the concerns of the people concerned. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that there are shortcomings in how the Government's mission to the Swedish power grid is written. Unfortunately, it does not come as news for the people who have been involved in the processes and seen how it has been done. Landowners affected and others affected find it self-evident to know how Swedish power networks reason and to see the calculations that form the basis of the investments – or at least someone else should look at them and make an assessment. This is something that a united Committee on Economic Affairs, thanks to the Alliance's motion, is now taking place. In fact, many of those involved have even felt almost unlawful when they have been informed of the drawing of management streets. For me as a centre party, it is self-evident to protect property rights and that the land that must be used should be as small as possible and valued as high as possible while taking the utmost account. It is also so important to be transparent and have a good dialogue. Unfortunately, the Red-greens are opposed to this type of discussion when the committee now proposes it and rejects the motion by the Alliance on the matter. The fact that an independent party – perhaps the Swedish Energy Market Authority, perhaps someone else – has the opportunity to review the basis for the decision that Swedish power grids produce is good. It is also a foundation of confidence in the state. The committee is now delivering two announcements to the government from this report. To Åsa Westlund I would like to say that not a single syllable has been changed to influence the Swedish Democrats. The tragic proof of the hollowness of Åsa Westlund's reasoning is that if she only reads the committee's report, she can see that in paragraph 2, the Social Democrats themselves vote for a motion that partly approves the Swedish Democrats. It's not about changing anything. It is about technicalities and decision-making arrangements in Parliament. So nothing has changed. I assume that the government is now dealing with these two announcements quickly and sending new directives to Swedish power grids so that all the investments needed and that will come in the future can have new directives and new opportunities so that fewer people will get caught up.
i-715095a36e069253-943	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of how the government, together with the Swedish Enterprise Agency's Swedish power networks, is doing to ensure that we have a secure power transfer, we are debating the government's letter on the report, the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 21. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the governance of the Swedish power network and the Swedish National Business Authority against a secure power transfer at socio-economically defensible costs in the light of the energy transition. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Swedish energy market is undergoing extensive restructuring that places new demands on the electricity system. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the major changes that are taking place in the design of energy policy involve some uncertainty about the future tasks of the Swedish power grid in the energy transition. Through wider EU cooperation in the field of energy, there is pressure on the business community to significantly expand the core network. I will come back later on to the issue of core network expansion, Mr President. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that at the same time there are previous statements from the Riksdag that the expansion of the transmission system should be made in relation to what is socio-economically defensible given the energy transition. Here the government has replied with a letter which the committee unanimously supports. The Swedish National Audit Office notes, however, that it has not examined how the technical functioning of the Swedish power grid system is affected by an increased share of renewable energy. Here I just have to mention that there is a significant difference in function and impact when you expand renewable volatil electricity generation in northern Sweden where we already have overproduction. Then, Mr President, the simple question arises: is there transmission capacity to transfer electricity generation or power from northern Sweden to southern Sweden where we would need it? The answer is no. One does not need to be a rocket scientist to conclude that we should expand production in the south of our elongated country to make the most socio-economically justifiable investments in both power transmission and production. Well, Mr President, in order not to confuse anyone who listens to my speech, I would like to make it clear that I naturally want to extend the renewable electricity generation law as much as possible. However, in order to do this in harmony with our transmission capacity, southern Sweden's ability to expand offshore wind energy should be taken much better into account. Blekinge Offshore is a clear example of such a project that should of course be incorporated. Here it is excellent to give a boot to the Swedish power grid that currently rejects the cable to Gotland. It makes no sense to me and the Left Party. Back then to core network deployments, Mr President, to which I mentioned that I would return. Now that investments in renewable electricity are under way, and the core networks and other networks have grown old, new investments are needed. What's more the rule than the exception is what's called Nimby: Do the dint and the date, but not in my backyard. No one wants to be disturbed by any power cable, but electricity should be used. I understand that it should be legally secure and that large construction projects should be overtested and so on, but that the permits should take five to ten years to produce is probably a little bit to take on. That is why, Mr President, I have subscribed to a reservation contained in the decision-making point. It addresses the problem of these endlessly long processing times for network investments. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved. Here I would like to draw some attention from the Members of Parliament to my own and the Left Party's special opinion on my position. It reminds me of our equally obedient motion, which was rejected in this House also by the motionaries for the reservation which I now support.
i-715095a36e069253-953	Mr President, I would like to A secure power transmission is something that we naturally think we should have. But the power grids don't handle themselves. They don't build themselves and they don't entertain themselves. Swedish power networks have the ultimate responsibility for this work. It is interesting to note in this context, I think, that there are so many electricity grid companies that there are still in this small country. There are about 170 electricity grid companies of different sizes. However, the core network is owned by Swedish power grids. In order for all this to work together and the transmission capacity to work, it will be expanded, for example with the Southwest link that many are affected by. It's a big project. Then there is also the obvious fact that we are actually also making the socio-economic assessments required for this type of large project. It is rather strange that the Swedish National Audit Office has not previously done the supervision or review that has now been done by a business such as the Swedish Power Network when it comes to actually making socio-economic profitability assessments in case of major network investments. Or it doesn't say bigger, it says network investments. But they automatically get bigger because it is Swedish power grid. In what other context do we not require such financial responsibility? I am pleased that the committee is proposing an announcement, in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's report, that the need for an external actor to look at this should be investigated. This applies not least in view of the democratic part, for example being able to have views on the design of the South-West Link, which I know a little better. Several times, in different contexts, the so-called consultations have questioned whether it is economically viable to bury cables in the ground or whether to keep them in the air. There's a need for this. And I think we'll all be curious about the results. For time winning, I won't speak any more. However, like my colleagues, I would like to endorse Amendment No 3.
i-715095a36e069253-961	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the government's and the Swedish Enterprise's power grid's control towards a secure power transmission. The focus of the review has been the financial and operational governance of the Swedish power grid in the light of the transition towards more renewable energy sources in the electricity grids. Several of the conclusions are in line with our views. Like the Swedish National Audit Office, we see shortcomings in the financing model, the importance of more socio-economic analyses being carried out and that a poor financing model can negatively affect the Swedish power balance and increase costs for Swedish electricity grid customers. In Europe, there is now a major expansion of renewable energy. It is being built more or less exclusively by political means. It contributes to a strong fluctuating imbalance in the electricity grids and entails a huge investment need in strengthened transmission capacity. There is great uncertainty in the European energy market as to the overall need for investment, who ultimately has to pay and what consequences it will have for European competitiveness. Uncertainty in the energy market regarding fluctuating production and electricity prices also affects the Swedish energy market. We may more or less have to expand the continental transmission of electricity in order to provide more people with, for example, Swedish regulatory power. I would like to point out that we are in no way negative towards continental electricity transmission or trade with other countries. However, the expansion of transmission capacity needs to be analysed. There must also be a socio-economic incentive to build it. Mr President, I would like to In the letter about the Swedish National Audit Office's review, the government basically states that there is no basis for assessing the socio-economic consequences associated with new foreign relations. Instead, it tries to make things easy by defending possible over-investments by contributing to a more robust electricity system, even though it may lead to a cost increase for Swedish electricity consumers and companies. We should remember that Swedish power networks' annual network investments have increased by nearly 1 000 per cent over a decade. So they have been tenfold during that period of time. It's hard not to think of as remarkable. In its review, the Swedish National Audit Office was able to conclude that the Swedish Business Authority is responsible for making socio-economic profitability assessments prior to core network investments. But it is done only in a few cases. There is also no independent third party responsible for reviewing the analyses. The Swedish National Audit Office also comes to the conclusion that the Government and the Swedish power grid have not clearly steered towards a secure power transfer to socio-economically defensible costs. The Swedish Democrats have proposed that the government should set up an independent committee of experts on electricity infrastructure that should be involved in working on how the socio-economic analyses should be carried out and which input values should be used. We believe that this committee of experts should also review the socio-economic calculations on an ongoing basis. The Committee should also examine how the government's energy policy objectives affect both investment needs in transmission capacity and the functioning of the electricity grid. And its work should be done with great transparency. We are pleased that our proposal in our follow-up motion gained ground and that a united committee now proposes that the Riksdag announce to the Government that it will investigate the need for an independent actor, in parallel with the Swedish power grid, to carry out socio-economic profitability assessments in network investments. It can also be considered whether the decision not to proceed with a core network connection to Gotland is a direct consequence of more thorough socio-economic assessments coming in or whether it is completely independent of it. This investment went from being considered profitable to the fact that social costs far exceeded the various benefits. It shouldn't be hard to understand, even for a layman. Investing to get rid of a surplus created by subsidies and sold at a price below the cost of production can hardly be regarded as good social benefits. This step will hopefully put an end to the most bizarre proposals and thoughts of some in this House in the future. Mr President, I would like to Power balance reports are carried out annually. It describes what the impact situation for the coming winter looks like. In the same way, the respective core network operator in other countries does. Sweden has historically had a satisfactory balance of power and stands well even at the moment. However, other countries are already forced to import electric power during critical hours and assume that imports are possible when the need exists. Countries around Sweden tend to design similar energy systems. Weather - dependent forces represent an increasing share of the generated electrical energy. However, there are no dynamic power balance reports where an overall assessment is made as to whether, for example, the most critical hourly value coincides with ours. The concern with the weather-dependent forces is that there is a relatively large correlation, even over larger geographical areas. Looking only at wind power production in the Nordic electricity market, you can see that the bottom values for availability, when you go down to a few percentage points, all that usually happens more or less simultaneously. If a number of different countries have adopted, in the more static power balance reports, the possibility of importing electric energy from one another, the situation risks being devastating. We therefore proposed that the Government need to commission Swedish power grids to implement dynamic power balance reports that take into account all countries that are relevant to the Swedish power balance. It is gratifying that we have also heard from the committee for our proposals here and that the committee proposes that the Riksdag announce to the government that it will give Swedish power networks the task of carrying out long-term analyses of the impact situation, taking into account both the situation of Sweden and the neighbouring countries. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the committee's proposal in its entirety. I would also like to thank the Social Democrats for their active support for Sweden's proposals on socio-economic analyses.
i-715095a36e069253-981	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an elongated country with a large distance and where electricity generation and consumption are not collected in the same area. Most of the electricity production takes place in northern Sweden, and most of the electricity is consumed in southern Sweden. Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the conditions for a secure power transmission. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Swedish energy market is undergoing extensive restructuring that places new demands on the electricity system, not least due to the energy transition and the design of energy policy in the Swedish parliament. Meeting these challenges requires the expansion of the electricity grids. What is important here is that this expansion takes place in an orderly manner and with good foresight. Households and businesses should be able to count on safe access to electricity and other energy. I therefore propose that reservation 3 be approved. I am, of course, in favour of the other alliance reservations, but I am only in favour of it for time to come. My colleagues have explained our position in this report. I'm not going to move on to that. But I will comment on the low water label that I think Åsa Westlund stood for. To try to look at us The Swedish Democrats because we think equally on a single issue I think is destructive. And that's not good for the order here in Parliament. It is a tendency of the Social Democrats. They often try to have some form of opportunist trumpification, which contributes to the polarisation of the debate climate. I have doubts about the Social Democrats that they should be pragmatic and want the best in Sweden. I hope that it will be presented here in the House in the future.
i-715095a36e069253-988	Mr President, I would like to You, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party in this letter exercise it on this letter that periodic analyses of the state of impact on the Swedish energy market should be carried out. In addition to this, the Swedish Democrats had in their motion a reasoning that Sweden's electricity supply is linked to other countries and that an assessment of the power balance must therefore take this into account. There's nothing strange about it. The Government, for example, writes in its letter to the Riksdag that it is important that the assessment of the security of supply is made based on the relevant market, which is normally the Nordic region. Nevertheless, it is clear that your own motion lacked wording about other countries. But in your new text, these references were suddenly included. This also approved the Swedish democrats' motion. The Swedish Democrats therefore voted on your proposal in the Alliance. My question is simply: why did you choose in the Liberals – who outside this House are clear that you should not adapt your policy to the Swedish Democrats – to still add an addition to your own text so that it also covered what the Swedish Democrats called for and that suited the Swedish Democrats better?
i-715095a36e069253-991	Mr President, I would like to I find no strangeness in taking things and criticisms and listening to good arguments. We do this in the Alliance constantly and often. What I was trying to say in my speech was that I find it problematic that in the second motion the Social Democrats are voting with the Swedish Democrats while at the same time trying to jam on us some sort of stamp and strange rhetoric that I do not appreciate. I don't think it contributes to a good tone of conversation. This polarization often occurs, and it is very opportunistic. When you talk about companies, you often say they're bad guys. It is said that profits are theft from the people. They say that companies should sell children on the stock exchange. This form of rhetoric shows precisely the same tendencies that I was talking about.
i-715095a36e069253-994	Mr President, I would like to The honourable Member now raised the same point that Rickard Nordin also mentioned in his speech. We have negotiated with the Alliance on reservation 2. The Alliance happens to think the same thing as the Swedish Democrats on this issue. We have never had the principle of not negotiating with the Alliance. On the other hand, the Liberals have the principle of not adapting their policies to the Swedish Democrats. That principle seems to be completely devoid of them now that I hear the honourable Member's answer to my question. The reason we have this principle is because we do not want to help normalize a racist party. We do not want to give the Swedish Democrats influence and do not make them happy to gain influence. So why did you choose to adapt your text to make them happy? What kind of support do you expect back?
i-715095a36e069253-996	Mr President, I would like to I strongly reject what Åsa Westlund claims we should have negotiated with the Swedish Democrats. That's a lie. What I said was that we are open to listen to good arguments. In my speech, I mentioned why the Social Democrats repeatedly have an opportunist tone, and this is not just the case in this case. Instead of discussing the subject matter, we are constantly trying to find arguments that are not rational and logical. You discuss, you stick and you stamp. I think it is a tendency that we have seen across the Atlantic, and which I hope will not get wind in the sails here in Sweden. I hope that we will be able to have a pragmatic discussion in the Swedish Parliament, and I hope that it will be less of that rhetoric when you accuse not only liberals and center parties of negotiating with the Swedish Democrats. I also hope that the rhetoric against business will end, that companies will stop saying that they are selling children on the stock exchange and that profits are theft from the people, because that is not good tone, especially from the country's main representatives.
i-715095a36e069253-1000	Mr President, I would like to I would like for time winning consent only to reservation 2. I am not going to be so long-winded, but I would like to point out that good and good intellectual property is an important prerequisite for protecting Sweden's growing and welfare-creating companies. The different parts of intellectual property have a major impact on a number of companies. In terms of the share of GDP, many of these enterprises are growing. Innovations in copyright and in classic intellectual property such as patents and so on are becoming increasingly important. It is important to have balanced copyright legislation and also other intellectual property legislation that protects companies from infringement and does not hamper new business innovations. There are examples of when it can hit both ways. Small companies can be completely run over by larger companies only because of the error of intellectual property rights. In this way it will not be a rule of law but rather a rule of lawyers. Then it will be the one with the most money and resources that can use legal expertise that gets the advantage against smaller companies and can run over them, even if the right was on the smaller companies side. Companies can also make excessive losses due to illegal piracy. When you talk about piracy, you usually mention copyright piracy. But the great losses are actually made on the physical piracy of various products. More than 90 per cent of the companies registered on the Stockholm Stock Exchange report that they have been exposed to various infringements of their intellectual property rights. In countries that have strong intellectual property rights and provide good fiscal conditions and legal protection of intellectual property assets, there are good conditions for growth. The Netherlands is an example where many countries have chosen to invest much of their research and intellectual property innovations. What we want to highlight in our motion is that the new technology contributes to the challenge of copyright, which is a very old piece of legislation. Here we stress the importance of having a strong intellectual property but also a technology-neutral one and counteracting piracy as much as possible. We also want a strategy for how to strengthen intellectual property rights in Sweden.
i-715095a36e069253-1008	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Today we are going to talk about intellectual property, which is a legal term for the laws governing the protection of artistic and literary works, technology solutions, industrial design, design and trademarks. Many who follow today's debate are probably familiar with some parts, but the concept of intellectual property is broad and ranges from protecting technologically advanced industrial solutions to protecting, for example, Zara Larsson's or Shawn Mende's latest song. Intellectual property can therefore be divided into several different groups such as patent protection, design protection, copyright and trademark protection. In addition, there are a variety of sub-groups such as related rights, industrial property rights, GIs and the protection of trade secrets. A report from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise 2015 shows that many of Sweden's largest companies have been exposed to intellectual property infringement and piracy and that the problem has escalated over the past five years. The report shows that all the companies interviewed had been subject to intellectual property infringement. 73% reported that it has increased over the last five years, and 80% reported that counterfeiting and piracy are expected to increase over the next five years. A large majority also felt that the state's efforts to combat IPR infringement and piracy were insufficient and that the government needed to do more. One conclusion of the study is that IPR issues need more political attention. The authors point out that work on piracy and other IPR infringements needs to be more coordinated at EU level and also between the EU, the US and Japan. China was identified by all companies as the largest country of origin for pirated products. Intellectual property is a very broad and complex area where the different sub-groups, industries and size of companies are affected differently depending on global agreements or local agreements and where the infringements occur and who carries them out. Mr President, I would like to Since the advent of the Internet, the number of copyright violations has escalated. With regard to piracy of film and music, it is now relatively easy to access illegal material via streaming services and download pages. A report from the film industry claimed that, as a result, more than SEK 800 million are lost annually in Sweden in the film industry alone. The Swedish democrats take piracy seriously. However, we do not believe that large resources should be given priority in order to hunt individual file dividers, which are usually young people. On the contrary, today's resources can be used more efficiently and rationally. We believe that the focus should be on closing down the illegal streaming and downloading pages, and through international agreements we can work for this but also stop other forms of piracy. However, we believe primarily in creating incentives to improve the legal services available for streaming, thus allowing the market to participate in the cessation of piracy. In Sweden, a private copying allowance was introduced in 1999. The idea of this compensation was that the authors would receive compensation despite the fact that music was copied for private use via cassette tapes. However, technological developments have now left legislation out of the question. Today, cassette tapes are no longer used to copy or listen to music. On the contrary, the vast majority choose services such as streaming to listen and enjoy music. In the case of purchases of certain products, consumers are today allowed to pay a one-off fee to cover the private copying fee. A situation may arise when you have to pay compensation for the hardware needed to play, for example, music, and for legal streaming services where you pay by contract to access the copyrighted material. This can be perceived by the consumer as very strange, since you pay twice. Legislation is lagging behind in this area, and this is made clear by the increasing complexity of cases in judicial review. The industry is calling for reforms to facilitate its work and dissemination of material, while making it more difficult for illegal sites to disseminate the same material. We therefore want to set up a study to update and reform legislation in this area.
i-715095a36e069253-1022	Mr President, I would like to What is intellectual property and intellectual property protection? In its position, the Industry Committee states that intellectual property protection is an important prerequisite for making the commercial values of research and innovation available. In ordinary Swedish, this means that those who hatch new ideas and who create jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden will be paid for this. I think most people think that you should get paid for work that is spent on developing new products and services. For Sweden it is particularly important that intangible assets are protected because our prosperity is largely based on the fact that we have been and are good at innovations. Many of our large companies with long history have their roots in Swedish inventions such as the separator, steam turbine, dynamite, wrench, Agaphyren, three-point belt, pacemaker, tetran, primus kitchen, spherical ball bearings, refrigerator, zipper, ventilator and many more. How are things today? Is it important that Swedish companies have good intellectual property protection? Mr President, I would like to On Monday, the Swedish Patent and Registration Office presented the 2016 international statistics on patent applications. Sweden is in second place with approximately 370 international patent applications per 1 million inhabitants. Before us is Switzerland, and in third place is Japan. Patent applications today do not have the character of, for example, the wrench, zipper or Losec, but are often about small improvements that make one thing a little faster or a little more energy-efficient. When the European Commission conducts its annual innovation ranking, Sweden, Finland and Denmark usually place themselves among the top five. But when the American business magazine Red Herring last month presented its annual compilation of Europe's most innovative companies, it became clear that Sweden beats its neighbours by far. Sweden has many young technology companies on the list such as the fintech app Dreams, the payment platform Betalo and the IOT company Wittra. Sweden and Stockholm in competition with Silicon Valley have the most so-called unicorns, unicorns, i.e. technology companies valued at $1 billion within ten years from the start. You probably know the names of several of these: Spotify, Klarna and Mojang. Do you think that both these new companies and our traditional companies need strong protection of their products and services to create jobs in Sweden? Do you think they need to make money from their services and products to develop tomorrow's Losec or Minecraft? Mr President, I would like to Does intellectual property in Sweden work? Basically it works well, but if we're going to stay at the top we have to trim further. The fact that Sweden does not participate in the Working Group on Counterfeiting in the EU Policy Cycle, which is an initiative in which EU Member States work jointly against serious organised crime, must be seen as an accident in an otherwise good job. The Government Office says that this is because the Swedish Customs Service does not have prior investigation powers in the area of intellectual property. The US Chamber of Commerce regularly produces a report on the strength of intellectual property rights in different countries, and the latest report came in February. It compares 45 countries, and Sweden comes in fifth place. The list is topped by the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan. As Sweden's forces, the report highlights the establishment last year of the special courts of the Patent and Market Court and the Patent and Market Court of Appeal. The report also highlights that we have a strong and well-developed understanding of intellectual property rights in Sweden and that our authorities work structured and well with e-services. On the negative side is the ruling in the Patent and Market Court of Appeal where the Bredbandsbolaget lost against several film and record companies as well as the ongoing discussion in Sweden about demands for neutral packaging. Mr President, I would like to I have tried to explain how dependent the innovative Sweden is on intellectual property in order to create entrepreneurship and jobs. Is intellectual property in Sweden respected? The gaming development industry in Sweden, which has had a growth of 1,000 per cent over the past five years, states that Sweden is at the bottom of illegal digital downloading of services. We're twice as bad as our neighbours. Nevertheless, it is thanks to intellectual property rights that we retain ownership of Sweden's gaming development company in the country. Without intellectual property rights, our Swedish game developers had worked for international companies. I would also like to point out that, of course, it is not just about digital services in the area of intellectual property. It is also about, for example, that the company Morakniv at home where I live should not be met by China-made copies of its products. I have also heard that a plastic floor manufacturer in Småland found a Turkish factory that makes the exact same product, which is also sold in Sweden. And not only have they copied his floor– they have also copied his website. It looks exactly the same as his own. How do we access international piracy and the illegal downloading of services in Sweden? I know that the government wants to disseminate information, raise the level of knowledge and increase public understanding of the meaning and principles of intellectual property, as this report states. For example, the National Media Council has been tasked with strengthening children and young people as conscious media users by providing information on copyright rights and obligations. I hope that this somewhat soft and informative attitude from the government will have the intended effect, but I am somewhat hesitant. Mr President, I would like to We are good at intellectual property in Sweden, but we need to sharpen ourselves further so that our talented innovators can continue to create jobs and contribute to a developed welfare in Sweden. We therefore need to give the Finnish Customs the tools it needs to be able to cooperate with the police and the Swedish Prosecution Authority, but also to be able to participate in the work within the EU to combat piracy. We need to tighten up the penalties and perhaps introduce a serious copyright infringement into the legislation. The government says that it is working to develop an intellectual property strategy, which will come shortly. I hope that the views of authors will be taken on board. The cost of protecting their intangible assets must also be reasonable. Infringements in court may not take too long, because then a small entrepreneur risks going bankrupt while the case is being examined. However, there is a great hope that the new special courts will be a little faster. Finally, I want the government to continue working towards international harmonisation of intellectual property rights, which would greatly facilitate Swedish innovators and Swedish exports. I am in favour of reservation 2 in this report.
i-715095a36e069253-1039	Mr President, I would like to What does it cost not to safeguard the knowledge-driven company's most important resource: the intangible assets? As I said, I have my background as a job-creating entrepreneur and know the value of an idea. These are the ideas that have built Sweden strong. These innovations have been developed in Sweden because we have a long tradition of ownership and legal certainty. That freedom is worth defending, and we Liberals will continue to do so. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is one of the world's most innovative countries. Every year Swedish companies invest billions in research and development. Intellectual property law is important for the country's growing and welfare-creating companies. A patent or trademark registration gives legal certainty to the creator who has invested time and creative power in his idea. The proper functioning of intellectual property is a necessary factor to stimulate research and to encourage innovation, product development and cultural creation. Copyright is part of ownership and a prerequisite for a well-functioning market economy. Thanks to copyright, those who create culture can charge and control their own works. Copyright is thus an important prerequisite for cultural creation. Technology increases the accessibility of culture. As new technologies and new ways of taking part in culture develop, copyright also needs to be modernised. Compared to the past, for example, today several distributors of film and music services that we consider to have been well received by consumers. This shows that it is possible both to protect copyright and to modernise it in order to exploit legal opportunities with file sharing and other digital technologies. Mr President, I would like to The jobs of the future are largely in the creative industry, with lots of driven, skilled and innovative entrepreneurs. But this requires both better conditions for the industry and better opportunities to protect their materials and creativity. Liberals will always stand up for copyright and the opportunity to make money from their own creativity, whether it be film, music, literature or other forms of creation. Thus, one of the most important tasks of policy in the next few years is to strike a sensible political balance in the new digital age in order to affirm this particular industry. We therefore believe in a combination of self-regulation measures in business, public information and legislation that protects and strengthens copyright. We in the Committee on Economic Affairs are continuously working on the legislative work in the somewhat complex area of intellectual property. In 2016, the committee initiated a public hearing on intellectual property rights, and no later than Tuesday, the committee was invited to discuss with the government the strategic work on intellectual property. In addition, as a committee, we have had a lot of more concrete legislative work on our table on copyright disputes and simplification of the copyright law. As regards cultural and creative industries, intellectual property rights are particularly important. In order to ensure the long-term development of the Swedish IT and music industry, the right of authors to compensation must be safeguarded, regardless of how their works are distributed. Technology neutrality in this context should be self-evident. On the basis of the letters from the law, we do not believe that smartphones or tablets, for example, would be very dedicated to private copying. On the contrary, these involve new and wider audiences as well as increased opportunities for cultural creators to earn money and charge. In order for copyright to be maintained, it must be relevant and follow the evolution of time. That is why I support our Amendment No 2.
i-715095a36e069253-1045	Mr President, I would like to When we hear the word, we usually think of creative industries. We probably all understand the point of being a writer, musician, artist, illustrator and so on. Surely these have always been jobs that have been hard to make money on. Even the painters in the 17th century were copied and annoyed by each other when they discovered that they had crept each other's motives or something else. It is interesting to note that this problem has always existed – but has only become worse, as it is now so often online. This morning the Committee on Economic Affairs held an open hearing on trade policy. We can see that online trade has increased dramatically. We joked here a while ago about the delivery of postal packages. It is faster to order a package from the USA or China and get it delivered home than to send a letter within Sweden. Maybe we should put the letters in packages in the future, and they'll come out. In fact, e-commerce is amazing if you just get what you order. However, we note that these copied products do not only concern creative industries. It's not just about designer bags either. If we order a Michael Kors bag, it's probably not real if it's too cheap. I think we can understand that. We may want it anyway, but then we will also understand that if someone looks at the seams and the logo, it will appear that they are not the same as on a genuine bag, which costs at least $5,000 - $5,000. What is even worse, and which I would like to mention in the debate, is the falsification of medicines. That drugs can be sold illegally is one thing. It is also done when it is stolen in different transports. Above all, however, it is possible to falsify medicines that can be lethal to people and sell them not least online. Piracy of drugs is a huge industry. It is said that Sweden is more or less becoming a major market for piracy at all because we have such low penalties here. I'm not in favour of raising penalties unnecessarily. There's supposed to be a good reason for that. In this case, it is not just the authors or companies who own the rights to the various products. When it comes to medicines, it is also dangerous for people to get the wrong dose or eat the wrong things. In 2011, 27 million packages of counterfeit medicines were seized in the EU. It says something about that there are probably a lot more millions this year that will hopefully be seized but that are out circulating and will be sent to different people who have ordered them. As far as intellectual property rights are concerned, it is important to note that many entrepreneurs do not always think about what applies for rights and patents for their services or products. That is why it is fantastic that in this debate we are addressing the fact that protecting intellectual property rights is a priority for us if we want to continue to have an innovative Sweden. It is so easy to believe that you are talking about a product and that it does nothing. But if the information gets into the wrong hands, it can be disseminated, and you do not get the patent that you had planned. Then, too, perhaps 40 000 to 50 000 crowns have been spent unnecessarily in order to hire a lawyer to handle it. It is important that we access information and knowledge about intellectual property rights for both new and old entrepreneurs. For people who want to be clear on the subject, I think that all business advisors who have public support should have their own knowledge in this area. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 2. I look forward to us continuing to work on intellectual property issues.
i-715095a36e069253-1056	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is and will continue to be at world peak when it comes to innovation, inventions and creative power. We have talked about this here today. It is also a high priority for the current government to defend and strengthen this position. It is about jobs, development, knowledge, people's health and society's growth. A number of measures have been taken and are under way in this area. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions. It is an undeniable fact that intangible values are of great importance to the world economy. When we discuss the issue today, we can relate some of the various reports to which we refer. It was pretty sure that half an hour before this debate began it was presented in the German newspaper Die Welt, which I read, the World Intellectual Property Organisation, Wipos, list. It shows that Sweden retains its strong position on these issues. We look at innovation, inventiveness, the number of patents and such things. However, human capital, the link between knowledge and society and cooperation between cooperating authorities are also seen as important aspects. Switzerland is number one, as Peter Helander mentioned, but Sweden is number two. Given that the Netherlands was mentioned here, it may be interesting to know that we are ahead of the Netherlands and have strengthened our position further this year. It is good that a great deal of the exercise from the general exercise time is paying attention to these very issues. Of the contributions that have been made, I note that in many respects patent and copyright are crucial tools for companies and creative creators' opportunities to develop. There is a consensus on this, and it is very gratifying. Of course, it is important that we continue to work in depth on tightening up laws and sanctions, but also on attitudes, insights and the dissemination of knowledge. Mr President, I would like to It has been mentioned in a motion that we need an intangible strategy to develop in this area. I would say that the current Swedish Government is more active in this area than many other previous governments have been. I'm sure there are different explanations for that. We are obviously living in an era of digitalization, mobility and the tremendous pace that we are experiencing in development right now. The government has taken a number of initiatives in these areas, and a great deal is under way. Let's start with what we've been talking about. Piracy and counterfeiting should be considered as part of organised crime. It should not be dismissed as some sort of insignificant boy's line. It's a fact, and it feeds the black market. There are victims who are affected both in the form of companies and creators who lose their livelihoods and those consumers who are deliberately or unconsciously misled by counterfeiting. There is a clear focus here that we should go further into these issues. It has also been initiated by the Minister of Justice in consultation with the Ministry of Industry and committees to investigate the possibility of introducing serious copyright offences. The report will be presented in February 2018. A special court has also been set up to be specifically dedicated to patent and copyright law. There has been talk of this in what I understand perhaps 40 years. Now it's happening. It is welcome and would not have been achieved without the government's initiative and commitment to these issues. In the EU and vis-à-vis the European Commission, Sweden has been and is driving to achieve a strongly sought-after and common patent system. We now see that it is extremely close to final adoption. Only last Tuesday, three ministers – the Minister of Justice, Enterprise and Culture – met for a joint event in Rosenbad to highlight the continued work on the national intellectual property strategy. That is exactly what the motion is calling for. We can also note that already in March 2016, the Government decided to commission the Swedish Patent and Registration Office and Vinnova to make efforts to develop the knowledge and understanding of intangible assets among public actors, industry and the general public. The PRV with the Director General at the head has taken this job very seriously and is in the process of implementing it in different ways. Vinnova will strengthen the development of knowledge about the relationship between intangible assets, innovation and growth. The Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Media Council are involved to ensure that knowledge is available and education takes place on all levels already in early years. We have previously decided in the Riksdag on the collective management of copyright, which has been developed through a drive from the Swedish side. We also have the new Trade Mark Regulation, which will allow customs to intervene against suspected counterfeiting, in focus. We need to continue successful work in this area, and that means continuing cooperation between the various actors in society in the way that has happened and that we are in the process of implementing.
i-715095a36e069253-1074	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to hear that the Social Democrats are taking the issue of intellectual property seriously, because that is something we need here in Sweden. As I understood your speech, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, and understand what Morgan Johansson has said several times, you want to take a hard and harder grip on file dividers. But it sounds rather like you want to take a little too hard and spend a lot of resources chasing young people instead of solving the big problem, which is the download pages and streaming services. If they are closed down by global agreements, there is nothing to download or stream, and we think that is more effective than starting to hunt these hundreds of thousands of young people. Have I understood the Social Democrats correctly?
i-715095a36e069253-1077	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, Nissinen has not quite understood the meaning. The idea is that we should take a holistic approach to this. Then we cannot let go of any areas and say that it is not so important or dangerous. We cannot minimize such questions. It is about taking a holistic approach and ensuring that this organised crime, which is often the subject of this, is combated and that we then use good methods to do so. There have been some attempts at blocking and such things in neighbouring countries, and we have been following developments there. It may be a solution, but common agreements that are at stake here take time to implement. Of course, what we can do internally, nationally, should we not avoid doing during that time. It is therefore important that we make it clear that this is not an activity that we allow.
i-715095a36e069253-1080	Mr President, I would like to What I'm a little afraid of is that, as it sounds at Morgan Johansson, you will be so harsh that the penalties will not be proportionate to what you have done. It is clear that copyright should be protected. Theft is stealing. But it's supposed to be proportionate. It must not be so disproportionate that it will be worse if you steal something than if you murder someone. It must be proportionate. I am afraid that the Social Democrats are going too hard and punishing an entire generation for not learning right and wrong.
i-715095a36e069253-1083	Mr President, I would like to An investigation is now under way to enable us to assess and decide what is a serious copyright infringement. It is clear that penalties and penalties should be proportionate to the nature of the crime, but it is of great importance that we fight crime in this area. In this way we can get to a large part of organised crime. I did not think that the Swedish Democrats wanted to stand by and do nothing about it, because it is a major social problem.
i-715095a36e069253-1086	Mr President, I would like to The protection of patents, trademarks, designs, copyright for literary and artistic works etc., i.e. intellectual property that we have talked about in this debate, is an important prerequisite for Swedish industry, research and innovation and cultural creation. That has been emphasised in many of the contributions to the debate that we have already heard. This seems to be an idea that does not distinguish us from the debaters, and it is a view shared by the government and the government parties. This is something that is visible not only in this debate but also in reality, as you can see if you go through the initiatives that the government has taken since it came to power. The previous speaker, PerPer-Arne Håkansson, has explained this. There is no reason for me to repeat the examples he mentioned. Based on the fact that the government's efforts well meet the problem descriptions of the motionaries and more so, I see no reason to pass on any reservations. I support the committee's proposal.
i-715095a36e069253-1089	Mr President, I would like to This report responds to a request from the Government to authorise the disposal of companies owned by the State. The Government must request permission from the Riksdag for this to be possible and therefore cannot act on its own. That is why we are going to debate this request to divest all or part of companies. The basic principle of state ownership of companies believes that the Moderates and also the Centers, Liberals and Christian Democrats should be that the state should not operate in areas where there is a market and thus compete with companies in various industries that work to deliver services and products, provide people with jobs and generate growth for the country. We therefore support the request to divest the following companies in whole or in part from the State's ownership. It is about Apoteksgruppen i Sverige Holding AB, which was part of the transition after the pharmacies left the state company. Today it has played its part, and that is why it must be disposed of. It is about Metria AB, a wholly owned company that provides services and products in the areas of geographic information, real estate information, geographic information technology, plan and measurement services and consulting and product activities. The company has no social mission and none of the parts that make it desirable to keep it under government control. That is why we are in favour of the sale. It is about Swedish National Roads, a wholly owned company that has sorted under Vägverket, now Trafikverket. The company is estimated to have better conditions with another owner, and then it is clear that it will also leave the state's ownership. AB Göta Canalbolaget wants the government to be given a mandate to cut off all or part of the shares in order to dispose of those parts that do not need to be owned by the company. This is to preserve Göta Canal's value as a cultural historical building and tourist attraction. These include, for example, land and buildings that could cost the company money in the future. It will be a side-action that takes resources from the main mission. We therefore call for this to be approved. Swedesurvey AB ranks under Lantmäteriet but has international operations. The company is described as having reduced its area and operating in a new way. That means it doesn't have to be in the hands of the state. Mr President, I would like to It is a fundamental part of being a company owner that the state is active and professional in its ownership by constantly thinking about what is happening in the outside world and constantly testing the reasons for continued state ownership. This includes the need for new considerations to change the direction of companies. This is a position that we would like to emphasise clearly, since in many cases state ownership is based on commercial activities. Much water has run under the bridges and continues to do so. For example, Telia and the time when it was Televerket, when we were all allowed to have only one type of telephone: black. That time is hard to imagine today with the spirit of our time and our wide range of phones, which, moreover, are far from necessarily too fixed telephony. There are three reasons for owning companies – although I basically believe that the ownership and running of companies is in another market, which is private. As we see it, the reasons are that there are social missions that are difficult to manage in other ways, that it is strategically justified or that it is justified in terms of security policy. None of these reasons exists for these companies. What is stated in the follow-up motion we have written in this case is that we see the urgency of a process that allows the 180 small businesses that own and run pharmacies around the country to be given good opportunities for participation and that the process becomes as transparent as possible when it comes to the decommissioning of the Pharmacy Group in Sweden Holding AB. This is also one of our requests. In addition, we have a request for the government to act as soon as possible to sell those state companies that do not have precisely a social mission or a strategic or security policy mission, other than those that we are deciding on today. From the Moderates, the Centers, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, we have also said that revenue from the sale of state-owned companies should be used to amortise the public debt. This is in our joint committee motion 3739, and I would therefore like to support reservations 2 and 3.
i-715095a36e069253-1101	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3, and I have done so. After all, we have discussed this with state-owned companies quite a few times before, but for those who may read the Minutes or listen to this and are not part of the Committee on Economic Affairs, it may be good to repeat this information. It is a fairly impressive set of companies which the State owns, in part or in whole: 49, of which 2 are listed. Together they represent large values: SEK 460 billion. That's a huge amount of money. They have 163,000 employees, I last read on the government website. It's amazing! But I would also like to say that we in the Center Party and the rest of the Alliance are a little impatient; we do not really have the same opinion about state companies. We don't think it's up to the state to own and run a company – that's not what we should mainly be doing. There is a built-in problem in the fact that, on the one hand, we are legislating in a market where we then run companies on the other. It's a bit of a problem, I'd say. But since we are a large company owner and will be the owner for quite a long time, it is still important that we run the companies in a long-term, professional and value-creating way. Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson went through these companies, and I may not have to do it again because there are some who need to hurry to their trains or travel home in other ways. The bill presented today is broadly agreed between the opposition parties and the government parties. It is really about the divestment of companies that in one way or another work better if they are owned by someone else. It may also be that there are already many companies on the market in question and it is therefore not necessary for the State to operate there. However, I would like to add one thing: it is about the Pharmacy Group in Sweden. This company was founded in 2010 when the government sold 150 companies to smaller entrepreneurs. I think that was very good, because otherwise it will easily be large pharmacy chains that take over the business. An umbrella was then formed to help with service to the companies and with IT and to coordinate larger purchases to bring down prices. Today, the company operates as a service body, and now the companies have these companies in their hands. That is why the state's mission is complete, and the umbrella agency will now be disposed of. I think that is a good thing, but I think that in this particular situation the state should allow these entrepreneurs a little more transparency and a little more transparency in the sales process. I guess that's where we split up. I think I'll stay there for the sake of simplicity. I see that there are many who are happy in the government parties, and that is not bad! Now that I'm here, I'd like to take this opportunity... even if we might meet again... to wish you a super nice summer! It's actually on the way, pals, even in northern Sweden.
i-715095a36e069253-1111	Mr President, I would like to State-owned companies in transformation are the title of report NU24. Many people know what this is about: the disposal of some companies that the state wants to dispose of. However, with regard to state-owned companies, I would like to stress at the outset that the owners of these companies are all Swedish citizens, not the government. The state should therefore, in my opinion, use its ownership to serve societal purposes. The ownership will be used actively to build Sweden more secure, more equal and ecologically sustainable, increase competitiveness and even out unfair differences between urban and rural areas. State ownership should therefore be developed, not decommissioned. The ownership directives for several of the state-owned companies need to be rewritten. The social benefit should always be the focus of the ownership strategy, while the companies are economically efficient. Where important social interests conflict with the profit requirements of state-owned companies, the objectives of the ownership strategy shall be reviewed. Me and the Left Party are generally opposed to the sale of state-owned companies. Instead, we want to build a future innovation structure that retains manufacturing, research and development and head office in Sweden. The state therefore needs to be a strong and active owner and, through ownership directives, ensure that the companies are used to support technology development, drive environmental and climate work and create employment. This is crucial not least in certain areas of social importance where state corporate ownership is necessary as a counterweight to speculation, capitalism and short-term profit pursuit. Most recently, the headlines in my home county, in Jokkmokk, have been made by State Waterfall. This is the case for jobs lost in small inland municipalities, in favour of multinational companies, for example, which are responsible for invoicing. Here we talk about technology branches where we usually stand high in knowledge and technology development. At least this makes me wonder and react. Is it necessary for a billion-dollar company that has its registered office here in Sweden and is owned by us citizens to do this shift of tasks? I have to mention this when you want to know how I see state-owned companies, even if it is not a matter of transformation. If Vattenfall were to do this for technical or security reasons, I would find it easier to digest, but as I see it, only the wage cost is the reason. Then the question is whether we as a state-owned company should be a driving force in the development that businesses and tasks are moved abroad, away from Sweden, to earn a little more. Mr President, I would like to What I'm trying to say is that it's going to be wrong, after what government companies are doing, to criticise multi-companies that are moving their business away from us. We're here to show them the way. Depletion and control and development drainage are what this governance leads to. No, I would like to insist that we should look at the benefits of society when it comes to looking at our own house. Having said that, I believe that the government can begin by not divesting the State ownership of Metria as proposed in the present bill. Metria AB is a state-owned company that provides services and products in the areas of geographic information, real estate information and geographic information technology. I believe that the company plays an important role in the development of modern Sweden. Infrastructure, housing and energy are important areas in which the state, through its corporate ownership, can and should drive social development forward. Metria currently conducts a well-functioning business and is allowed through state ownership to have an approach to sustainability issues that are important for Sweden to be able to build sustainable societies for the future. Against this background, I believe that the company should not be sold. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-715095a36e069253-1123	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are the liberal party of Sweden. Our party's attitude towards enterprise is clear. We believe in man's inherent potential, and we believe that entrepreneurship is one of the main forms of individual self-realization. Companies should be able to be run by strong individuals and operate in a clear market. Here, the State has a responsibility to maintain clarity while ensuring the control mechanisms for the functioning of the market. We see the value of a strong public sector. But from our point of view, it cannot be the task of the state to own and operate businesses. We believe that the role of the state should normally be to set out the framework and rules that should apply to business and businesses, not to own and operate those companies themselves. For example, we see the commercial airline SAS or the temporary agency Lernia AB. Companies should be owned and run by people who dare to take risks and realize their dreams. The state should be there as a safety net if the entrepreneur's dreams don't come true. Society will help the one who has stumbled on his journey. The State should not lay hooks for companies and not use its extensive resources to run businesses or to compete with the private business community. The State should also not use the state-owned companies as a cash cow when the barns have been emptied to pay for an industrial chancellor or discussion club. We are gathered here to discuss changes in the state's corporate portfolio. In doing so, it is absolutely crucial that the changes take place in a transparent and clear manner to facilitate the participation of those players operating in the open market alongside the public sector. The change consists of a sale or disposal of the Pharmacy Group, where we have a responsibility to the dozens of traders affected in one way or another by the transaction. This calls for participation in the sales process in the way that we in the Alliance have put forward in motion 3739. I would like to take this opportunity to call for reservation 3 on the principles of state ownership of companies, and to announce it, together with the motion as a whole, to the government. On the Liberal side, we are partly disappointed. We are disappointed in the sense that we would have liked to have seen more companies on the list of companies that are up for sale or disposal. It is still incomprehensible why we own SAS, which flies charter passengers, the temporary agency Lernia or TeliaSonera. Then there are a lot of other companies in the state portfolio that are strongly questioned. The Danish operations in Postnord are one of these companies. Having said that, the Liberals naturally welcome the government's proposal to reduce the state's corporate portfolio, even if it is not enough. We are probably more satisfied than the government's Left Party cooperation party. Perhaps it would be better for the government to continue to think for itself, as has been done in this case, instead of constantly having to follow the Left Party with stop-ultimatums, profit limits and endless investigations – until there is a shift in power next year, that is. It is a shift that I, as a liberal and old entrepreneur, hope will come sooner or later. Hopefully today in the Committee on Finance we have taken a step closer.
i-715095a36e069253-1132	Mr President, I would like to You mentioned the Left Party, Said. You're absolutely right that we don't have the same view of the companies. I agree that the state should not own companies where there is no social benefit. You mentioned Postnord. You are aware of which government it was that made the rockad where they privatised the post and merged it with the Danish? I think you're aware of what government it was. I want to ask you something. You mention that you would have liked to have seen more companies on the sales list. What do you think would have happened if, for example, LKAB had been a privately owned mining company in the early 80s, when things went really bad? Then the state had to put a couple of hundred million into the company in order for it to survive. If it had been privately owned, I would have been convinced that the mine holes in Kiruna would have been filled with water today, and they would never have been opened again. Malmberget, Gällivare and Kiruna could have been removed from the map. Not many people would have stayed there. Don't you think, Said, that there is justification for the state owning certain companies? It has been done well and well. Or do you have a different picture of who will own these companies that have natural resources behind them?
i-715095a36e069253-1136	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for a good question! Of course, there are exceptions to state ownership. On the Liberal side, we have said that it is an anomaly when the state owns companies, but just as you mention, there are exceptions that are justified. LKAB is one of them. Both LKAB and Systembolaget are mentioned in our motion as examples of companies that we do not intend to sell, but we realise that there is a benefit to society in owning them. One of the companies we are discussing today is the Pharmacy Group. I would like to ask Birger Lahti what they think about this. It was part of a monopoly before. The Swedish National Audit has concluded that privatisation has gone very well. I would like to hear: if the Left Party came to power after the next elections, how would it look at these questions? Are there perhaps some companies that we would like to renationalise?
i-715095a36e069253-1139	Madam President, I would like You also know, Said, that the pharmacy was privately owned until 1971, I think. It was privately owned. Then the government took over. You know what the people who had pharmacies said? They said: Finally! At last it became government, so that everyone got the same service. You're saying the privatisation has been successful. Yes, it has been successful here in Stockholm. Within a radius of one kilometer you will find more pharmacies today. But do you think there have been more pharmacies in rural or rural areas? Would it have been the same if we had said that we would privatize all pharmacies at once? Do you think we would have been given some medications in my municipality, for example? No, no one is profiting from the medicines that are shoveled over to my municipality or other inland municipalities where people are sparse. You make a half-measure like this because you know you can make money when there's another pharmacy. But privatizing all pharmacies is no way forward. Then all sparsely populated municipalities would be without medication. I don't have the answer to what I'd do if I got the government. But I am convinced of one thing: not even you could come up with the idea of privatising all pharmacies in Sweden and doing so on market grounds. I don't think so.
i-715095a36e069253-1143	Madam President, I would like Birger Lahti! I see. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office has just stated that it has been a successful privatisation. I think it has been a very good model, where the state has gradually reduced ownership. Smaller players have been allowed to speak and become part of the pharmacy business and have their own pharmacies. The number of pharmacies is, of course, something to discuss. But I don't think you should stare blindly at the number of pharmacies. I believe in technology. I know there are a lot of companies that find other forms of distribution. Why do we have a pharmacy? There are many reasons why Djurfarmacia is doing great. There are many reasons why companies like Apotea are doing very well. Then it is more about distribution. I wouldn't stare blindly at the pharmacy as a physical place. However, I agree that it is very important for everyone to benefit from the benefits provided by the pharmacy. I welcome the government's proposal.
i-715095a36e069253-1147	Madam President, I would like There are 5 out of 49 companies involved in this report. One of them I wanted to mention in particular a few words about, as it concerns my municipality of residence. Göta River and Göta canal companies are not for sale. But it is a sale of certain land owned by Göta Canal Company. I say that to clarify it all, if anyone has been worried that we should somehow get rid of one of Sweden's finest, I think, industrial works. It is incredibly important for the tourism industry and with regard to cultural history structures to really take advantage of what Göta Canal has to offer. In my municipality, Trollhättan, there is also a small canal museum for which I am happy to advertise. You can visit it if you are nearby. Of the other four companies, I would particularly like to mention the Pharmacy Group, which my colleagues in the Alliance have spoken about in the past. When the pharmacy reform was to take place, I worked as a business advisor. I was asked to contact the Farmacevt Association and hear if there were existing staff in pharmacies who would be willing to start and run cooperative activities themselves, economic associations or other types of companies that would then become part of the Pharmacy Group. I think it is important that we see the need even today for small businesses run locally by one or more people who can take advantage of the interest that exists in that particular place. This is true in this type of activity, as in many others. Pharmacy is important to all of us. We have discussed this with a functioning postal service and so on. And my Liberal colleague mentioned Apotea and other online pharmacies that can supply products. There is therefore a great deal to be done about the possibilities of distribution. However, when it comes to transforming state-owned companies, I think that what we in the Alliance have pressed for is important. There is no point in selling state companies that have an important social mission. Of course, it is something that the Swedish state may continue to need. On the other hand, you can really look at the list a that is left – it's 49 minus 5. That's 44 left. Perhaps some of them could be sold in the future. It is not that we want to put forward the need for money in any way. Yes, we think it is important that the proceeds from the sales that are still made are taken into account by amortising the public debt – absolutely. But as a Christian Democrat, I would like to point out that there is no end in selling state-owned companies if they have an important social mission. I can also think that the security policy aspect has become even more important. It may be useful to review infrastructure-important companies that are in the state's possession precisely so that they do not end up in the power and hands of foreign owners, so to speak, who may not benefit Swedish interests. I support the alliance reservation set out in paragraph 2.
i-715095a36e069253-1152	Madam President, I would like The report we are discussing today on the bill of State-owned companies in transformation focuses on development and competitiveness. That is what is at the heart of the proposed changes. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and therefore reject the motions. But I note that the motions, with the exception of the Left Party, do not oppose the changes as such, but have other specific starting points for their positions. Then it is a question of state ownership in general. I would therefore like to emphasise, Madam President, that state-owned companies are important to Sweden in many respects. It is enough to highlight some clear facts. Some fifty companies have a total net sales of around SEK 350 billion and over 150 000 employees. Today's report proposes various measures for a handful of state-owned companies. It is about Apoteksgruppen i Sverige Holding AB, Metria AB, Swedish National Road Consulting AB, AB Göta kanalbolag and Swedesurvey Aktiebolag. As regards Pharmacy Group in Sweden Holding AB, the government's analysis work has been carried out with the help of external expertise. The starting point is that the company should have better conditions for long-term value creation in another ownership structure. The pharmacy group may be regarded as a stable undertaking. However, it should also be pointed out that it is a remnant of the liberalisation that was done, which we from the Social Democrats strongly criticised. The government's assessment is that the state ownership of Apoteksgruppen in Sweden Holding, unlike the important ownership of Apoteket AB, is not an effective tool for improving the pharmacy market. It is therefore natural to dispose of the ownership of the holding company on the basis of the current situation. It is also a matter of fact that the state in this way owns two companies in the same industry, both the Pharmacy Group in Sweden Holding AB and Apoteket AB. With this proposal, the direction for the state to own and operate only Apoteket AB and do it in a powerful and good way. The motion, which the Moderates, the Centers, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals have brought, advocates two announcements. There is reason to reason a bit about the second sentence. Here the exercisers go into the state ownership as a whole and with their exercise want to open up for sale or disposal of any company that currently lacks special social assignments. It is an extensive business to carry out, even if it is said to be done step by step. In that case, we are talking about some twenty well-managed and important companies for the nation. These include Vattenfall, LKAB, SJ, Car Testing, Apoteket, as we mentioned, SBAB and others with a number of employees and with important tasks for the nation. The state, as I see it, is a good owner of these companies and, like the majority of the committee, I see no reason to go further on this issue. The Left Party has objections to the sale of Metria and Swedish National Road Consulting. If this can be said that the Government in its proposal gives several good reasons why the sale should take place. With regard to Metria, the committee also notes that the assessment is that the competitive situation in the market in which the company acts will not deteriorate in the event of a change in State ownership and that the company is even deemed to have better development opportunities without the State as its owner. However, I note that there is a strong majority in committee around the proposal and the proposal that lies. With this, I thank you for the floor.
i-715095a36e069253-1160	Madam President, I would like I felt that I lost the concept a little bit during my main speech, so then I thought I would take the opportunity to ask my Socialist colleague about SBAB when I still have him in the speaker's seat. I think it's a little strange that we own a government bank that's so uninterested in large parts of the country. One might ask why the state should then own SBAB. Is there a need for a state bank when it exists only in functioning markets? PerPer-Arne Håkansson is happy to answer that question.
i-715095a36e069253-1163	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Lindahl for the question. As far as SBAB is concerned, unlike her, I believe that SBAB has an important role to play and that it is of great importance that the State has ownership of this type of activity. SBAB has been around for a long time, and I note that even during the time when Helena Lindahl's party was in government, what she is now presenting did not come to the fore. I think it would have been unfortunate, for SBAB has an important role to play as a state-owned company.
i-715095a36e069253-1165	Madam President, I would like The fact that SBAB now exists only south of Uppsala is also an active decision that was taken not so long ago, and then the Social Democrats led Sweden. It was a couple of years ago, and Mikael Damberg had nothing to object to. What I mean is that for a long time we have seen the dismantling of services and jobs in rural areas. In fact, the state bears a great responsibility here, as do several governments, I can say in that case. I still find it strange that the current government, which at the same time has a very high tailline and says that the whole of Sweden should live, does not use some of the state companies to supplement weaker markets. After all, the state has a great opportunity to carry out a regional policy through its companies, which is, in fact, missed out by weak governance. For example, I mentioned SBAB Bank, a wholly-owned public limited liability company that competes with other banks. Now it has only been decided to leave the corporate customers north of Dalälven to their fate. In other words, SBAB does not want any business customers in rural areas or small towns; now it is Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and major growth or higher education locations that apply. Minister for Industry Mikael Damberg has no objection. That is exactly what he replied to the media, and it is easy to find it online. Then I wonder: Is this really something Per-Per-Arne Håkansson supports?
i-715095a36e069253-1170	Madam President, I would like SBAB is a bank that mainly acts for housing loans but also has a function as a bank for the whole of Sweden, I would say. We live at a time when the banks are online to a very large extent, and the individual decisions that the bank makes based on where to be located and how to act, we do not comment on these aspects. It's about the bank working on the basis of its business and what's best from a competitive point of view. There is no doubt that all people in Sweden have the opportunity to be customers in the bank.
i-715095a36e069253-1173	Madam President, I would like Previous speeches have well explained what we are debating in this report. The Government is seeking a mandate to divest all or part of the state's ownership in a number of companies and to allow AB Göta canal companies to pledge, lease, divest or dispose of land. The government is also seeking support to phase out Swedesurvey Aktiebolag. These decisions also need to take a number of subsequent decisions. I do not need to list them; they are logical follow-up decisions. I note that there is a very broad consensus that these are companies that can be sold. Of the three motions put forward on the government proposal, I see that the two from the bourgeois parties as a whole are breaking open doors. State ownership needs to be continuously reviewed and developed. It is something mentioned in the motion, and it is also something on which there is consensus and which both government parties are behind. It is important that they develop in order to create values for the owner, in this case the state, and ultimately the Swedish people. On the other hand, to go as far as the bourgeois parties do in one of their motions to make a single kind of decision to sell as soon as possible, as it says in the reservation, all state companies that today do not have a social mission, I do not think that is to put the interests of the Swedish people first. I'm going back to the original motion, which is better written than the reservation, if I'm going to say something good about it anyway, but it's the reservation that we take a position on here. As far as the motion on the Pharmacy Group is concerned, it goes without saying that the government acts as it does in all contexts when it comes to changes in company ownership, i.e. it adapts each sale according to the respective company's conditions. Just as the bourgeois parties write in their motion: nothing new, nothing strange. In the third motion tabled, the Left Party wants to exempt two companies from sales and decommissioning, and I can only respectfully note that we are making different assessments. That's what politics is all about. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to express my support for the committee's proposal and wish the President, together with his assistants, parliamentary colleagues and audiences, who may see us on television or hear us on the radio or over the web a happy summer, because this is at least the last debate of the Committee on Economic Affairs before the summer break.
i-715095a36e069253-1181	Madam President, I would like I was not really going to ask for a reply, but I could not help myself because I think my colleague from the Green Party is treating the truth in a somewhat reckless way and saying that the Alliance wants to sell all the companies as quickly as possible. Then I think Jonas Eriksson has distorted the truth a little bit. In principle, we do not think that the state should own companies, because we are both judges and players in the same market. There is a problem built-in in principle there. We say, however, that we will be corporate owners for a long time, and then we must manage ownership in a professional and active way. You cannot just sell things as quickly as possible, but it happens when the market allows it. It is clear that we are keen to get a good return, because it is ultimately taxpayers' money. We also think that there are some companies that are important to keep and that for security policy reasons are important for Sweden or important for Sweden as a nation. I also think that such elements are important in this context. I want to ask Jonas Eriksson a question. Does Jonas Eriksson think it is important that we control the state-owned companies in such a way that it also benefits regional development?
i-715095a36e069253-1185	Madam President, I would like Yeah.
i-715095a36e069253-1186	Madam President, I would like Good! As Jonas Eriksson seems to agree with me, I wonder why the government is not acting on SBAB. The northerners are going to the internet we heard just now while the offices are supposed to be south of Uppsala. I do not really know if I think there is so much regional development. Then there was the issue of State Waterfall. I get pain in my stomach when Vattenfall is outsourcing 31 jobs from Jokkmokk to abroad. It is certainly not regional governance. At the same time, the government says that several jobs at the government's disposal will be moved from the cities and Stockholm to the whole of Sweden. Are those jobs supposed to be moved abroad? I do not think that was the idea behind the work of the Rural Committee. It is provocative that the state believes that hydroelectric municipalities, such as Jokkmokk, which has eleven hydroelectric power plants and contributes enormous values to the country of Sweden, should not get back even part of the profit they produce. It's provocative. At present, it is the Center Party and the Left Party that support the idea of returning some of the profits to the municipalities that actually produce the enormous profits and energy for the country of Sweden.
i-715095a36e069253-1190	Madam President, I would like Many aspects were highlighted here. I believe that if the Center Party were to turn to the government and show that it is interested in discussing ownership directives and community assignments to several of the companies in the state corporate portfolio, the door would be open. On the other hand, I do not think that the colleagues of the Center Party in the Alliance would like to go fully through that door. I think Helena Lindahl should try knocking on the door and see what happens. This is something other than what happened during the last term of office of the Centre Party in the government regarding the Nuon affair, Vattenfall and the merger and restructuring of Postnord. I am thinking of how much money and resources disappeared from the Swedish people during those restructurings and transformations. I hope that we will be able to avoid such changes in the future. Instead, we will look at how we can use the government portfolio to better benefit the whole country in all parts.
i-715095a36e069253-1194	Madam President, I would like Also I feel a little apostrophated, and I was going to give a brief comment. I know that my colleague Helena Lindahl has tried to clear up the misunderstandings and make it clear that we see the state companies as an anomaly – if they do not have a social mission, of course. We believe that operating state-owned companies is an exception. I do not believe that we should be both judges and players in the open market. I was going to take this opportunity to ask Mr Eriksson how the Green Party views state-owned companies. How do you see the state owning a commercial charter company like SAS? What is the state's view of operating a temporary agency on the open market? Why should we, as a state actor, run such a company?
i-715095a36e069253-1196	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, and thank you for trying to clarify what the Alliance means by its motion. In my speech, or in my first change of line, I mentioned that there is a certain difference in how you express yourself in the motion versus how you express yourself in the reservation. The reservation is much stricter in that all companies that do not have social mandates should be divested and disposed of as soon as possible. That's not where the nuances come in. In Said Abdus's previous line shift, he suddenly mentioned LKAB. LKAB is not mentioned in the exercise as a company that would have any special conditions, although it exists in a competitive market where there are other private actors. Vattenfall was discussed during the last parliamentary term. I know some of the Alliance's parties were on the idea that Vattenfall should be sold. It would be interesting if the representatives of the alliance parties could speak more specifically about what they mean when they talk about all state-owned companies that do not have a clearly identified public interest. Which anomalies – companies – do you want to remove, so that we know which companies we are really talking about? Now you're giving a little bit of a double signal. It's hard to understand what you mean. As far as SAS is concerned, the Green Party has long said that it will be sold as soon as there is a way for the Swedish people to sell it and get some kind of value. We don't want to spend any more money in SAS. There is really no reason for the State to own the company, but the state's ownership must be sold responsibly.
i-715095a36e069253-1201	Madam President, I would like In the speech, the honourable Member said that the Green Party wants to sell all the companies. That was one of the reasons we felt apostrophized. We don't want to sell all the companies. Liberals have both in alliance format and as their own party specified which companies we would like to see divested. This applies to Telia Sonera, SAS, Lernia and others. As far as Vattenfall is concerned, we have a clear agreement to divest, as far as possible, the business that is not related to the Nordic operations. The alliance has been clear. I want to skip to another related question. It does not concern the state company but the business community in general. The issue is the government's rhetoric. Member Jonas Eriksson belongs to the government in some form. How does Jonas Eriksson view the use of rhetoric from the highest political leadership, Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, which in my opinion segmentes the desire to start a business at all. It is said that companies are in some way tax evaders. It is also said that children are sold on the stock exchange and that profit is theft from the people. What do Jonas Eriksson think the consequences will be for the overall nutrient climate? Gagna's nutrient climate or not? It was a general question of curiosity.
i-715095a36e069253-1206	Madam President, I would like It is a very interesting issue, but it is actually a completely different debate. I am not so sure that the President-in-Office wants us to go into a general debate on business policy here. I'd love it! But today we are talking about state companies in transformation. I hope that we will have the opportunity to come back to the issue, but elsewhere. Said Abdu talked about Telia Sonera, Lernia and Vattenfall. My party and I believe that there are still opportunities to use these companies. As far as Vattenfall is concerned, it is clear. This company manages incredibly valuable infrastructure in Sweden that can be used for many societal goals, such as being the driving force in climate change. There are also social missions that one might well add to Lernia that players in the private market cannot fully cope with today. Telia Sonera and its subsidiaries also manage significant infrastructure. This is not an issue I have discussed with our government party. I do not know how the discussions in the government have gone on this particular issue. But if it was the Alliance's ambition to sell Telia Sonera and Lernia, you had eight years. I do not remember you putting forward any proposal to obtain an authorisation on this issue. It's okay. Maybe it was other times then. As far as Vattenfall is concerned, the bourgeois government did not reduce ownership outside the Nordic countries, but even chose to expand in a business that was so disastrously bad for the Swedish people.
