i-ddffc01e6b485468-6	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the government's proposal on new posting rules. A lot of the proposals are related to rules through EU directives. I do not intend to raise them in the debate, but to concentrate on those issues where we in the Alliance, together with many consultation bodies, believe that the proposals are wrong. Let me start by saying something about posting. Is there any value in that? There are about 40 000 postings each year in Sweden. Most of them take place in the construction sector; we know that. According to estimates, the socio-economic value of postings in Sweden is approximately SEK 4.1 billion per year. About half of it comes from the construction sector. Every day we can read that we need to build more housing and more infrastructure. The starting point of this debate should therefore be that demand for labour in housing, in particular, will be high for many years and that there are important values in increasing labour market mobility. As far as the bill is concerned, we in the Alliance have a number of objections. I will start with the general objection with which the Law Council has been very clear: where is the investigation that supports these rules making their application more effective and effective? The bill refers to it several times, but the Law Council is extremely clear and even refers to the form of government when it is said that the law does not fulfil the purposes it is said to fulfil. Most of us think it is a reasonable starting point to have a purpose and be able to prove it necessary, but it is something that the government obviously completely ignores. We in the Alliance believe that the current legislation is working well and that, in the absence of actual arguments from the government or an investigation, it is unwise to make any changes. One must then ask what the real motive is for the government's proposal. Like many consultation bodies, we believe that the Government's proposals go too far. The purpose of lex Laval and the rule of proof was to preserve the Swedish labour market model while safeguarding freedom of movement and meeting the demands of the European Court of Justice. The rules that have been in force up to now mean that unions have had the opportunity to take action to ensure compliance with conditions within the core of a Swedish central industry agreement. This may include, for example, minimum wage, working hours and holidays. However, trade unions must take account of the fact that workers can already have conditions that meet the requirements, for example through a foreign collective agreement. In addition, there are opportunities for seconding employers to make peace with the rule of proof by demonstrating that they meet the requirements. This means that the employer must have shown that the application of fair conditions is beyond reasonable doubt. With the government's proposal, the union will be able to take action and demand collective agreements from every company that comes here – even if they meet minimum conditions or even go further. Given that most postings take place in a short period of time – only a few months – a collective agreement and the resulting obligations with negotiations and other things can of course be perceived as burdensome. It may even mean that some companies choose not to come here. That, we mean, is not something that Sweden needs. Like most consultation bodies, we also believe that this is contrary to the principles of proportionality and mutual recognition of EU law. Furthermore, the proposal risks being conflict-driven, as the government has been accused of but ignored. I am thinking of the fact that if an employer concludes collective agreements voluntarily, the collective agreement applies in all its parts. However, if an employer chooses to wait, is warned of a conflict action and then signs a contract, then another type of collective agreement with limited obligations applies. What is this logic, and how can it be said to be more effective and effective? The last thing I want to highlight is transparency. The basis within the EU is cooperation and the free movement of goods, services and labour. As I said at the outset, it is valuable – even necessary – for Sweden with labour market mobility, and the posting brings socio-economic benefits to Sweden. However, in order for posting companies to want and be able to operate in Sweden, they need to know what is required of them, and in order for foreign workers to know their rights, they need to be able to access existing collective agreements. Rules on this have been in place since the introduction of lex Laval, but we can see that they are not followed by workers' organisations. To date, there are a few – I repeat: a few – collective agreements that have been submitted to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is therefore incomprehensible and unacceptable that the government should not follow this up with any kind of legislation that increases transparency. In concrete terms, this means that with the new rules, an employee's organisation can take action, but the employer may have lacked access to the collective agreement to be followed. It is not a balanced piece of legislation. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to say that it is important that there are good conditions for those who come here and work. It is therefore a good thing that parts of the implementing directive are now being implemented. It is possible to improve the regulatory framework without making it more difficult for the companies that come here. But I think it is remarkable that the government, together with the Swedish Democrats, is pushing through these proposals, which seem to be driven more by protectionism than by genuine interest in those who want to work and work here. Mr. Old President! I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-19	Mr. Old President! Barely 70 years ago, Europe was in ruins. My mother had just finished school. As late as the 1990s, there was a full-scale war in former Yugoslavia, and a divided Europe was powerless in the face of genocide. At the heart of EU cooperation, there is no need to relive a war on the European continent. We have trade, contacts and mobility as a tool. In this cooperation, we have made it possible for individuals to work, live, study and move freely across the continent that was formerly marked by war and border barriers. It's one of the pillars. By connecting and being dependent on each other, we build the conditions for peace but also for growth and development. Through Europe today, we are taking a joint responsibility for continuing to secure peace, democracy and growth. With common ground rules, we have created important values over the years. However, there are also many trade-offs and conflicts between national sovereignty on various issues and the EU-wide laws. These are conflicts that we have handled and have to deal with continuously. Today's case is one such matter. After a very high profile conflict between a Latvian construction company and Building 2004 – 2005, the European Court of Justice ruled that Building blockage against Laval's school building in Vaxholm was in breach of EU law. It was sentenced to the advantage of the Latvian construction company. An investigation and a new law, lex Laval, later we have had a different situation for several years. The aim of lex Laval was to maintain the Swedish labour market model in its essence while safeguarding the free movement of the European labour market. Mr. Old President! The Government has now put forward proposals in the bill for new posting rules that include the tearing-up of lex Laval. The government states that the intention of the proposal is to protect posted workers and to counter unfair competition – this despite the fact that the government has not been able to show any serious shortcomings in the current regime. In its opinion, the Legislative Council states that lex Laval is not systematically evaluated and no specific shortcomings in the law in force are cited as reasons for the legislative proposals, despite several investigations. The Centre Party and the Alliance have, in the course of their work, criticised the demands for special collective agreements for seconded workers. The abolition of the lex Laval rule of evidence means that combat action can now be taken even if the minimum conditions of the so-called "hard core" are met, solely in order to achieve precisely a posting collective agreement. As a result, a seconding employer will not be able to stop fighting. In practice, it becomes mandatory to sign a contract. With Sweden's less proud history of blockade and resounding of vaxholm, this right against companies that follow all the rules will of course mean that many companies from other countries choose not to come here. In addition, abolishing the rule of evidence is very likely to be incompatible with the principles of proportionality and mutual recognition of EU law. One of the reasons put forward by the trade unions is the possibility of verifying the accuracy of the information provided. A specific provision is proposed as to which documents, employment contracts and salary specifications the union should be able to request in order to ensure that the minimum conditions of the so-called hard core are met. But that possibility already exists. Employers who post must notify a contact person who must be able to provide documents demonstrating that the requirements of the law are met. The preparatory work mentions as examples such documents employment contracts that show that employees have conditions that are at least as favourable as the minimum conditions under a Swedish collective agreement. So something is being introduced that is already possible. This is precisely what the rule of proof is all about. The rule of proof is, in our view, generous in that it provides far-reaching opportunities for employee organisations to take action, as long as a posting employer does not show that the posted workers have essentially equal conditions with Swedish workers in the field of the contract in question. It is therefore unclear how the government believes that the control possibilities for employee organisations are improved. The Government also proposes that the prohibition of conflict measures in posting situations should in future apply only when the posting employer is established in the EEA or Switzerland. Foreign companies operating temporarily in Sweden would be given special treatment because of their nationality. When lex Laval was introduced, the Alliance government considered that discrimination on grounds of nationality is inappropriate unless there are strong factual reasons. We still think so. Ensuring good conditions for those who work in Sweden is a matter of course for us, but we believe that the proposals that are now being put forward are governed more by protectionism than by concern for those who have come here to work. The proposal runs the risk of hampering intra-EU mobility and of being in breach of EU law. In order to make it easier for posting companies to do the right thing and for posted workers to take advantage of their rights, it is important that they know what applies in the Swedish labour market. Swedish collective agreements must therefore be easily accessible. lex Laval regulated that employee organisations should submit collective agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Very few people have been turned in. That is why we in the alliance parties believe that sanctions should be linked to the demand. The fact that the government does not make any proposals that seriously improve transparency is strange. This means, in principle, that under the Swedish rules, an employee's organisation can take action to achieve conditions of which the posting employer has not actually been aware. Mr. Old President! The government therefore wants to make it possible to take action against companies even though they meet the requirements. Posting companies are forced to sign these special collective agreements. It is a big departure from the Swedish model. The possibility of checking the accuracy of data is introduced, as already exists under lex Laval. The government is showing a great deal of action by breaking open doors. The government and the majority of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats introduce special treatment for companies depending on their nationality. They say they want mobility, but they legislate against it. These are gross deviations of social democrats and environmentalists from previous principles such as the Swedish model, different treatment depending on nationality and free movement. The Center Party, together with the Alliance, considers this to be very unfortunate. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-37	Mr. Old President! It is gratifying that we are standing here to debate a bill that is finally on the table of Parliament. Now we can finally bring about a legislative change that extends the possibilities of achieving collective agreements in Sweden for posted workers, ultimately with the support of conflict measures. It is important and very welcome. This, of course, is not something that will or can remove all exploitation of foreign workers, and therefore not the great pressure to which the Swedish labour market model is subjected through a combination of market-liberal EU rules, the advanced positions of domestic capital interests and great inequality both within and outside our country. However, it is an important and real step forward compared to current legislation. Mr. Old President! Everyone who works in Sweden must be guaranteed reasonable pay and working conditions. The most important instrument for achieving this is the collective agreement. Its function is essentially to prevent unhealthy competition. Workers should not be forced to compete for jobs by offering one another in terms of pay and working conditions, and serious companies should not be competed out by companies that press prices through unacceptable conditions for workers. At the same time, collective agreements provide a high degree of flexibility in regulating labour market conditions. Government and parliament do not need to intervene and regulate in detail than one, than the other, and the dynamics of very different industries can be combined with the need for some stability and security for those who do the job. This is something that can happen if the parties are relatively well organised and if there are well-functioning rules for both consensus and conflict. Mr. Old President! The right to negotiate, the right to freely sign collective agreements and the right to conflict constitute fundamental rights and freedoms. They are also prerequisites for the Swedish collective agreement system to function and be strengthened. It is against this background that one should see the principled and the dramatic with the so-called Laval judgment and the changes in Swedish law that were introduced subsequently – what has come to be called lex Laval. In short, we can say that the Swedish trade unions Building and Elektricians at the turn of 2004/ 05 did what is a fundamental trade union task, namely that the company Laval un Partneri demanded that a Swedish collective agreement be signed in connection with a construction project in Vaxholm. The company did not want to do this, and the unions then resorted to conflict measures. The company complained legally against this, and the Swedish employers' organisations' lawyers later helped to pursue the case. When, after some tours, a decision was made by the European Court of Justice against the Swedish unions, it was not only a blow to the Swedish model but also something that created great legal and trade union debate throughout Europe. When the former right-wing government would then implement the new legal situation created by the judgment in Swedish law, it went further than what EU law required. That was our assessment then, and that has been our view ever since. We have certainly not been alone either. This is something that has been pointed out in both Swedish and international debates. In 2011, the Swedish Parliament announced to the previous government to consider what legislative changes are needed to protect the Swedish model in an international perspective. Since then, the Laval Act has received criticism both in the ILO system and in the Council of Europe's Human Rights Committee. A problematic key element of the current law is the so-called rule of proof, i.e. a ban on taking action if the employer claims to have shown compliance with minimum rules in a collective agreement somewhere. It is proposed to amend it with the proposal that has now been submitted to Parliament. This is done by saying that it is always allowed to resort to combat measures, albeit in order to achieve a kind of slimmed version of a full Swedish collective agreement, should this happen. In this way, the law remains clear within the framework of EU law, while at the same time removing some of the excessive restrictions on fundamental trade union rights imposed by current legislation. The prohibition on taking action imposed by lex Laval is removed. This will increase the possibility of signing collective agreements in order to safeguard the salaries and working conditions of posted workers. It is also something that implements the so-called Enforcement Directive, which in practice is a way of meeting the problems that far more than we in Sweden have been able to see with dumping of wages and working conditions due to the European Court of Justice's interpretation of the Posting of Workers Directive. It is simply easier to assert the central principle of equal pay for equal work in Sweden, which seems to have annoyed our bourgeois comrades here. As I said at the outset, the Left Party therefore welcomes the bill, but there are several points where we believe that the regulatory framework could have been further improved. We have put this forward in a follow-up motion, which is why I am also in favour of our reservation, reservation 2. I will briefly present our four proposals. Firstly, where the parties voluntarily agree on a Swedish collective agreement, this applies in its entirety, not only in the variant that has been slimmed to the so-called hard core. However, according to the draft law, agreements with limited legal effects are also to be regarded as collective agreements which have been concluded as a result of a conflict or warning of such a measure. The last thing we mean is unfortunate. The reference to the so-called "hard core" is a necessary evil to adhere to EU law. However, it is important that the grey areas that exist in relation to EU law can be examined by Swedish legislation in a reasonable manner. With the construction proposed by the government, we believe that there is a risk that employers may choose to reject a consensus solution if they are guaranteed a much more favourable agreement for them. This is not a good thing, and it can even be conflict-driven, as some have pointed out in the referral. We therefore believe that the wording on notice should be deleted from the legislative proposal. Secondly, the proposal requires information on conditions corresponding to the so-called hard core of collective agreements to be submitted to the Swedish Work Environment Authority by workers' organisations, and this obligation must go beyond previous legislation. The reason given is that such contractual terms have so far been received to a very small extent. However, the Left Party believes that the proposed obligation for trade unions is too extensive. The contact function proposed to provide the necessary information should be sufficient. In particular, it is unnecessary that unions are expected to assist the Swedish Work Environment Authority with contractual terms even in sectors where posting is not a particularly relevant problem and in situations where conflicts are not expected. The Left Party believes that this is too far-reaching a regulation which, moreover, restricts the autonomy of contractual parties in a way that is not appropriate. We therefore only want the requirement to submit the terms of the contract in cases where trade union organisations intend to take conflict action or give notice of conflict. Thirdly, no matter how to regulate this with the submission of contractual requirements, the government should evaluate this model in the near and predetermined future. Maybe it's done anyway. Let's see. Fourthly, the proposal proposes that the employer be liable to pay compensation to an individual worker in the event of a violation of the so-called repression ban, i.e. that they should be punished for trying to protect their rights as workers. That's good. But we also want this to be supplemented by a nullity penalty. If, for example, an employer has fired someone on this incorrect ground, the dismissal shall not apply. Mr. Old President! There were quite detailed and perhaps some technical issues here. But I would like to emphasise that this issue is ultimately about what kind of labour market and hence what kind of social model we should have. Ensuring equal pay for equal work in Sweden is a task that has been complicated by lex Laval. And it is quite telling to see how the previous government parties, who in their positions of government often seemed to suggest that they wanted to defend the Swedish model against the EU's failings, today want to totally reject the improvements proposed by the government. This shows how the EU legal apparatus can and has been used. It is politically more costly to tackle workers' rights directly. It is easier to hide behind hard-to-understand decisions in Strasbourg and Brussels. This also points to an unsolved fundamental problem that has to do with the European Union as such. In this case, a contradiction between EU law and Sweden's other international commitments regarding the right to collectively fight for their rights as workers is crystallized. This is precisely the basis for the criticisms of the ILO and European Councils mentioned earlier. This problem cannot be solved other than through changes at EU level, and is therefore not solved within the framework of this proposal. The Posting Directive must be amended so that it becomes a minimum directive, not as it is today a kind of maximum directive. It is also necessary for Sweden to assume its responsibilities within the EU and to promote a legally binding social protocol which means that fundamental rights must not be subordinated to economic freedoms. Mr. Old President! We see regular reminders of the problems of upholding workers' social and trade union rights in the context of the EU's market-liberal foundations. Fundamental changes are needed so that the work to maintain the Swedish labour market model does not have to be done on a continuous uphill basis. This is a core problem with Swedish EU membership and with the EU as such. At the same time, since Sweden's accession to the EU, the Left Party has been working hard for proposals that can improve actual laws and regulations within the framework that accompany the construction of the EU and also push on that framework. So do we now. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to state that if our reservation on our excellent proposals for improvements were to be voted down, we intend to vote in favour of the committee's proposal to approve the proposal, because we believe that it represents an important step forward and because we oppose the bourgeois reservation under the same paragraph.
i-PmsPuXEsLi9HPr4QDHR7fd	Mr. Old President! Go home, go home! So called Building officials to the Latvian workers at the company Laval un Partneri when they came to work at the clock. 7 in the morning of December 2004. They tried to get in the way so we wouldn't get there with the car. When the driver got out of the car, he almost couldn't get back in. Torgny Johansson (Chairman of Byggetta) tried to hold the door. Then he hit the window where I sat. ––– Everyone screamed and shouted as we passed. It was very unpleasant. This is what Elsa Ligere, project coordinator for Laval un Partneri, tells Svenska Dagbladet, who wrote about the event. Buildings and Elektricians, two of LO's most protectionist federations, were sentenced by the Labour Court to pay more than half a million kronor in fines to Laval. But it didn't matter very much because LO had already run the company in Vaxholm in bankruptcy. The conflict in Vaxholm is basically about the fact that Swedish legislation and the European Union acquis, EU law, are not fully compatible. In Sweden, we have chosen to deal with this through a compromise, i.e. lex Laval. Lex Laval is a good compromise, which both counteracts unfair conditions and secures the Swedish collective agreement system. The alternative would have been to continue to act in breach of EU law or to abandon the Swedish collective agreement model. Of course, we do not want any of this. However, Mr President-in-Office, this is not enough for the most protectionist parts of LO, which refuse to accept this compromise. What the government is now doing is going completely the protectionist part of LO's affairs and tearing up lex Laval. The risk is then that Swedish legislation and the collective agreement system will again clash with EU law as soon as a new conflict similar to Vaxholm takes place. In the long term, this can also threaten the Swedish model. I do not know if it is so wise for Ylva Johansson to go Building matters when this risks damaging the Swedish labour market model. A reasonable question to ask is whether the wage development of construction workers in Sweden has been worse than for other groups in the last ten years. And the answer to that question is unequivocally no: there has been no wage dumping, as the union had feared. There are no real problems that Ylva Johansson has to solve in this, other than keeping his own internal protectionist party opinion in a good mood. It is quite logical, of course, that Ylva Johansson does this together with the most protectionist parties in the Riksdag, namely the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party. On the other hand, this risks creating real problems as soon as we have a new legal case after Building has stood and roared back and forth against European workers at some other construction site. We are now seeing attacks on openness, freer trade and free movement of labour. We see those attacks around the world, not least with the Trump administration in the United States. Revealing lex Laval is in line with the policy and rhetoric that Donald Trump represents and on which the Brexit campaign in Britain was largely based, with constant attacks on Polish construction workers, and with a number of other protectionist forces in the world. It is protectionist left-wing populism and protectionist right-wing populism that goes hand in hand, with the aim of making it harder for companies from other countries to come here to Sweden. It is therefore necessary, Mr President-in-Office, to point out time and again that transparency is not an obstacle to good social development. Transparency is not an obstacle to good prosperity. Transparency is a prerequisite for this. I would like to support the alliance joint reservation No 1.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-69	Mr. Old President! Fredrik Malm quite often finds it difficult to hold back the contempt he obviously feels for trade unions and trade unions when they try to do what is their important task, namely to maintain equal pay for equal work. It comes out in time and out of time, almost no matter what you debate. Now it may be more understandable that Fredrik Malm will think about his antipathy towards the trade unions when we discuss the union, so to speak. But it is still important to ask Fredrik Malm about something that was not quite clear: Why is Fredrik Malm opposed to equal pay for equal work in the Swedish labour market? Why should there be greater opportunities to treat workers from abroad worse when working in Sweden, for example on a construction project or in some other context?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-71	Mr. Old President! What is now happening is that the government wants to tear up lex Laval Ali Esbati is very happy about this. This means abandoning a compromise that ensures fair conditions on the Swedish labour market and the Swedish collective agreement model and also makes it compatible with the EU acquis, with EU law. Ali Esbati does not even want to be in the EU, I think. Then it's no wonder. If you are a protectionist left-wing populist, you end up in the same trade union as the populist protectionist right-winger. This is the same policy and rhetoric on which the Brexit campaign is based, on which the Trump administration is based and on which Le Pen and a number of other forces are driving. We see this here in Parliament. It is Ali Esbati, the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats who push this through. I think it is very worrying about transparency and the possibility of safeguarding an important pillar of European cooperation: actually enabling workers to move across borders and work elsewhere. The wage dumping that trade unions are warning about and so on has not been demonstrated. I have not seen hordes of posted labor stand and demonstrate outside Parliament. I have not received a single e-mail from any person who has been posted and who considers himself to be oppressed. The Law Council points out that the government does not even justify its proposals. It is rather Ali Esbati who is guilty of the answer. Why should foreign workers be chased out of Sweden? Is it getting involved? The fact that workers are to unite across borders is probably the most classical of all Marxist slogans. However, it does not seem to play any part in this particular issue for Ali Esbati.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-75	Mr. Old President! I have not personally consulted either Le Pen or Donald Trump on what they think about the Swedish collective agreement model – I do not think they have any strong views on that. I myself think it is very good, because it leads to a good development in the Swedish labour market. An important principle of equal pay for equal work can then be upheld. I believe that Fredrik Malm has misunderstood the concept of protectionism. He also uses it in the sense of protecting workers' rights when they are in Sweden, no matter where they come from. I am happy to stand for this kind of protectionism, but not protectionism, which is about people not moving across borders. Fredrik Malm knows this quite well. We can discuss the issue of asylum law, for example, at some other time. Unfortunately, today's opinion is somewhat different. But it is still interesting that Fredrik Malm talks about the current solution being a compromise. Yes, it is possible that it is a compromise between the desire to protect workers in the Swedish labour market and the contempt, almost hatred, towards the trade unions expressed in what Fredrik Malm says here. But if so, it is a bad compromise. We are proposing a better compromise, which, of course, remains within the framework of EU law, with the need to go at the heart of it and cannot demand a collective agreement that has the same legal effects on the Swedish labour market. Nevertheless, it has the important advantage of safeguarding the right to always take a conflict for its rights. It is a fundamental human right that a liberal should be able to stand up for. Then there is the Marxist criticism that one should unite across national borders. That is exactly what happens when you claim the right to equal pay for equal work in Sweden.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-80	Mr. Old President! No, I guess Ali Esbati hasn't consulted Donald Trump or Marine Le Pen. On the other hand, he may have consulted his friend Nicolá Maduro in Venezuela, whose party militia is currently riding around on motorcycles and shooting civilians to death. There is a clear line of conflict here at the moment, Mr President-in-Office, in politics in the world. It goes between those of us who believe in transparency and those who believe in protectionism and introversion. Those forces are uniting now. We see this very clearly in this House. The party on the far left and the party on the far right make common cause together with the government and LO to make it difficult for foreign workers in Sweden. That's where we stand now. I say this once again: Lex Laval is basically a compromise between Swedish legislation and EU law, but it is also a compromise to safeguard the Swedish collective agreement system while safeguarding transparency and freedom of movement within the European Union. This is, of course, something that we in the Liberals support, because we think it is important. If there are different things that need to be adjusted in the legislation, we are open to doing so. But tearing up the legislation and completely following the line of the most protectionist forces in Sweden will create major problems for the labour market in the future. And probably we will have new legal cases in the future that risk undermining the Swedish model in the long term. I think that would be extremely problematic.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-84	Mr. Old President! Today, we are debating a report that deals with issues that have stirred up a lot of emotion for quite a few years, even though it does not really concern so many people. The Swedish Work Environment Authority reports that 42 697 employees were posted to Sweden in 2015. Of these, 42 per cent were found in the construction industry and 23 per cent in manufacturing. We know that there is still a great need in these areas. The majority come from Germany and Poland – about every third person. But, Mr. Old President, every month only 7,400 people are posted to Sweden. Then we will compare thessa 7,400 with a workforce of 4 1⁄2 million people. In addition, these people are mostly not posted throughout the year, but on average one month a year. So it is a very limited proportion of people we are talking about. We Christian Democrats protect freedom of movement within the EU, and we believe that everyone benefits from working in different EU countries. The single market is a prerequisite for the growth and development of our countries. Following the so-called Laval judgment, the previous government, with the Alliance, implemented changes in legislation in 2010 to clarify the law based on the European Court of Justice's claims in the Laval case. The idea was to safeguard the Swedish labour market model. In the Laval case, it emerged that the company sued Building for unlawful action, and in the EU judgment it can be seen that Building had gone too far. They did not have the right to take action under the circumstances. They did not have enough on their feet as to the demands they made. Nor had they clearly stated the requirements for the posted company. Therefore, Buildings and also the electricians had to pay damages. Mr. Old President! The Christian Democrats defend the Swedish model of contract in the labour market, a model based on the parties taking responsibility for wage setting and other important issues. EU law is above Swedish law, which means that Sweden simply has to adapt to the legislation of the EU judgment. When we adapted the legislation in this way, we retained the Swedish model of contract while allowing Community law to continue. Mr. Old President! Now that the Red-Green Government has decided to stir the pot and put forward a new proposal on posting rules, it is probably a rather difficult path to take from the government by tearing up lex Laval. Several consultation bodies consider that the proposed possibilities for requiring a special collective agreement for secondees are too far-reaching. The abolition of the rule of evidence means that combat measures can be taken even if the minimum conditions in the so-called hard core are met and only to achieve a posting collective agreement. A seconded entrepreneur will then not be able to settle against union action. We believe that a abolished rule of evidence is likely to be incompatible with the principles of proportionality and mutual recognition of EU law. The red-green parties often talk about wage dumping in Sweden. However, EU law does not allow wage dumping. Companies must offer workers what they call the hard core. This means that all EU citizens should have certain obvious rights when travelling between different countries to work. For those who are posted here you must have contractual terms that others in equivalent professions have here in Sweden, and that must correspond to the terms of a central collective agreement. These collective agreements I assume that the parties here do not think are wage-dumped, because these are the agreements that exist in the labour market, and that is what we should follow. Trade union action against foreign employers may continue to be taken under our legislation to bring about a collective agreement. To say otherwise is misleading. However, in the case of combat measures, in order not to conflict with EU law, action must not be taken against a foreign employer other than under certain conditions. Firstly, the conditions imposed by the employee organisation on the foreign employer must be equivalent to those laid down in a central sectoral agreement applicable in Sweden to the corresponding worker. Transparency and clarity shall prevail. Secondly, the conditions must relate only to requirements that can be considered to be part of the so-called hard core, i.e. minimum conditions that have been agreed in certain areas and sectors. Thirdly, EU law states that workers' organisations cannot impose a collective agreement on the conditions that foreign workers already have are more favourable than those laid down by law. The above rules therefore do not change the conditions for the Swedish labour market. Collective agreements are normative for the employment and working conditions of posted workers, and there are restrictions on combat measures even in the Swedish model if a collective agreement has been concluded. Then there is a duty of peace. In 2004– I don't know if you remember that; many of you were perhaps in politics back then– the Social Democrats were concerned that the accession of new Member States to the EU would lead to a loss of social tourism. Those of you who were present at the time may remember that discussion, which was that people from the new Member States Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Cyprus and Malta would move to Sweden to take advantage of our security systems. Therefore, we were not so surprised when the company Laval was going to build a school in Vaxholm in 2004 and union representatives shouted what Fredrik Malm mentioned earlier: Go home! That, Mr. Age President, was not okay, and many trade unionists have also regretted this behaviour. At the same time, it is a bit the same feeling as the red-greens are now putting forward a proposal like the one we are debating today. We have a construction boom and we need labour, but now it is complicated for freedom of movement. You could say that the red-greens fulfill their election promises. After all, they have long wanted to renegotiate the Posting of Workers Directive even with the other 27 Member States and are now pushing for it in the EU, which very well leads to the threat of the Swedish collective agreement model. Mr. Old President! To conclude, I would like to point out that the Alliance, as has already been said, has investigated the issue of improving and clarifying. With the help of the social partners, a legislative proposal was tabled which protected the Swedish labour market model and which, at the same time, was not contrary to European law. All workers' organisations, we believe, should have an obligation to submit collective agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which may be required by means of combat measures, otherwise a penalty or penalty should be imposed. It was something that an investigator came up with a few years ago, and it is a pity that the government has not gone that way. Mr. Old President! There are 680 collective agreements in the Swedish labour market. Should foreign companies keep track of 680 collective agreements? It would be interesting to hear how the Government, which is soon to come up in the speaker's chair, sees it. Or should we have the model that we have proposed and that is compatible with Community law, namely that of notifying the Swedish Work Environment Authority what collective agreements it wants to apply to seconded entrepreneurs, thereby increasing the transparency and simplicity of the free movement system? Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I mean that the government is putting forward a protectionist, populist proposal which affects few, but which is a symbolic issue for the government. The Alliance and the Christian Democrats are not prepared to jeopardise the Swedish labour market model by renegotiating the directive in the EU. We also believe that this proposal today is contrary to EU law. I therefore propose rejecting the committee's proposal in the report and agreeing to the Alliance's joint reservation 1.
i-B8qYRaiDABUAHKMe4LjyMw	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations. Finally! Finally, as a Social Democrat and Chairman of the Labour Market Committee, I can say that Swedish collective agreements will apply in Sweden also to foreign companies that operate here and their employees. It is a promise that we Social Democrats made before the 2014 elections and that the Social Democratic-led government is now delivering and presenting here in Parliament. Why is this so important? I would say that the backbone of the Swedish labour market model, in short the Swedish model, is that we have strong, free and independent partners in the labour market who fix wage formation, which sets wages and determines the conditions of work. We have no statutory minimum wage in Sweden, but we have our collective agreement model that has promoted us, which will promote us in the future and which will ensure that we are competitive by taking great responsibility for the economic development of the country. The collective agreement model also promotes a more even distribution of income and strengthens our welfare model. By doing this by consensus, the parties are doing this with a fantastic and unique solution. Our model is also the best guarantee of order and order at the workplace. It is not just about reasonable wages, conditions, working hours and the working environment, it is also about our companies and employees being able to operate in healthy competition with each other. Mr. Old President! We all want companies to operate in an environment without market disruption. But all of you sitting here know that's not the case today. The evidence is numerous from large and small companies that they are exposed to unhealthy competition. One example is the construction company Peab. I assume that Peab has met representatives from all parties in Parliament. Peab has calculated the difference in costs that they have against those who compete unsound. It has turned out that the companies, including foreign firms, which act in unwholesome competition, are to a large extent at 25 per cent of the Swedish costs. Mr. Old President! I received an email from an entrepreneur in Gävle, and I was a little surprised. The email was actually about three companies. It was a matter of assembly, forging and a subcontractor. The e-mail said that they are being flooded with offers of cheap labor and that they are tired of this, but they cannot do anything about it. I contacted the company and was visited by it. We had a discussion with the owner and the boss, who wondered, Mr. Age President, why we are not doing anything about the rogue companies. They are laughed at when they offer construction jobs and montage because their competitors' prices are at least 30% below. It is impossible to offer such prices through collective agreements. Just forget about bigger jobs. They believe that since they run companies in Sweden, they cannot allow foreign companies to pay only 30 kronor an hour. They want to do right by themselves and have good conditions that they have made up about with the opponent IF Metall. I'm gonna leave their employees to work. They want companies to survive and grow, but soon they won't have a choice. The entrepreneur then wondered how they think that is against the requirement for Swedish collective agreements for everyone in Sweden. I promised the entrepreneur that I would put the questions to the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats during the debate today. What are you thinking? Why don't you protect our decent companies against unhealthy competition? Why do you say no to order? The Center Party's Annika Qarlsson says that the proposal that there should be Swedish conditions in Sweden is a gross departure from the Swedish model. Is it not a gross departure from the Swedish model to let rogue compete out good Swedish companies? Isn't that a departure to allow this? That's the difference in the view of the issue between us. Fredrik Malm made a raid and went on about protectionism and so on. He says he likes collective agreements. At the same time, it has been discovered that the political spokesperson of the Liberals in this House, in its role as an entrepreneur, does not have a collective agreement. The bailiff is chasing him. What about the credibility of the Liberals in the fact that the Liberals like collective agreements? That question can be asked, and it is certainly justified. Mr. Old President! The bourgeois government put a wet blanket over the trade unions' right and the opportunity to fight for Swedish collective agreements. It is a battle they wanted to take to protect the seconded workers who temporarily work in Sweden. Indeed, Lex Laval is an obstacle to the right to strike against employers based in other EU countries. Now that both trade unions and companies bear witness to unsound competition, the realization should also come to the place of the bourgeois. That is why it is so gratifying that today we can scrap old lex Laval and replace it with new posting rules. The changes are as follows, and I am sure the Government will also go through them. The union can always require Swedish collective agreements from companies operating in Sweden. This means that Swedish and foreign companies are treated more equally. Posted workers get their rights in Swedish courts, and unions can monitor the conditions at Swedish workplaces. There is a requirement for transparency. All trade unions must submit agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. There shall be an obligation for posting employers who have entered into an agreement to provide documents and translations in Swedish and English. The union may require the appointment of a negotiating person. Let me read from the committee's majority text: a system that now allows collective agreements to be concluded with all posting employers and, furthermore, a right to certain collective agreement conditions also for outside posted workers and a control and sanction system, ensures that posted workers are actually given the conditions that they are guaranteed under the Posting of Workers Directive. ..................................................... Mr. Old President! This is a nice prose. For me, it's sweet music! This means that from 1 June this year Swedish salaries will apply in Sweden. Employers should no longer be able to use foreign labour by pushing down Swedish wages. The Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats often speak well of our Swedish model. Everyone claims to be supporters and promoters of collective agreements. We have heard it so often in Parliament. But have you ever put forward a single proposal to strengthen the labour market model? I urge you to explain to the Swedish people why you do not want Swedish conditions to apply to everyone who works in Sweden. At the same time, explain why you allow foreign companies to compete out our Swedish companies that are doing the right thing. What do you really have against our Swedish labour market model? The work goes on, as Mrs Pethrus mentioned. This is now happening at European level. It is also gratifying that the European Commission is putting forward proposals that move this issue forward. Posting is not a problem that exists in isolation in Sweden. The problem exists in other countries. You know that, too. We've been to conferences about the problem. There are problems in France and Germany, and so on. It feels safe to know that the Swedish Government has taken the initiative in this matter together with the Commission to continue working on it. Swedish salaries will be valid in Sweden from 2017. That sounds like sweet music! It is a protection for workers, and it is good for maintaining healthy competition. Why do you not understand this?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-123	Mr. Old President! It is interesting to listen to Raimo Pärssinen in the debate. I could say that we all agree here that order and order in the labour market are important. Otherwise, as Raimo Pärssinen says, we will not have healthy competition in the Swedish labour market. We absolutely must protect this. I know there are companies that dump. But they have gone against the rules we have. The problem is they don't follow the rules. In the legislation that the Alliance was involved in developing, we are sticking to European law. There are 680 collective agreements in Sweden. A company in Poland wants to post a worker to build housing in Sweden. The company wants to know what the terms are. The Alliance then said: All industries must submit to the Swedish Work Environment Authority the collective agreement they want to apply and which the Polish company will follow if it comes here. Once the company is clear, it must also comply with these rules. Otherwise, the union can go in and put the company in a blockade. So we already have rules in this area that prevent wage dumping, Raimo Pärssinen. So what are you going to achieve with what you call a special collective agreement for posted workers? So there will be 681 different collective agreements – or perhaps even more if there is to be a collective agreement for each sector. How is that going to work out in practical terms?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-127	Mr. Old President! It is always pleasant to debate with Désirée Pethrus because she is very factual. We agree that there are companies that dump. We agree that there are misleading elements. We agree that there are Swedish companies that are knocked out by what is unserious. Mrs Pethrus wonders what the concern is; there is legislation. Then I would have liked there to be a proposal from the Christian Democrats that you do not accept this, but want to move on and stop the rogue. That is exactly what we are doing, because we are expanding the possibilities of control and making greater demands on foreign companies. We also demand that the unions enter their agreements so that there is transparency in this. This comes up because it's a concern. The Moderates often claim that there is no concern. There hasn't been much fighting. No, but in 2009 came the wet blanket with lex Laval. After all, there was a conflict. Shall we say that the problem is solved? No, the problem is obviously still there. I am sure that Désirée Pethrus has also been contacted by some company that thinks it is unfairly treated against competitors. The government is putting forward this proposal to get to grips with this. We protect the Swedish model and strengthen it so it will be the same conditions for Swedish and foreign companies. We think it is good, and I am convinced that a majority in Sweden also think it is good. With our proposal, we are putting an end to those who are trying to escape and undermine the system.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-134	Mr. Old President! When we went through the legislation after the Laval case we said that all companies that come here should know which conditions apply in Sweden, the so-called hard core. If you do not follow this, the union can go in and take action. This means that companies in the other countries need to know what the conditions are. In principle, all trade unions send in agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. But Building doesn't. They refuse to submit the terms and conditions to be followed. It's an industry you really want to send in, because most people who come here will work in that industry. Can Raimo Pärssinen answer why Building constantly refuses to submit the collective agreement so that you know what applies? The union can, of course, take action if the companies do not comply with it, if they do not have wages that are equivalent to Swedish and do not have holiday rules and different health and safety regulations. What you are proposing, that there should be special collective agreements for posted workers, is too far-reaching under EU law, we believe. That cannot be introduced. In your bill you also write that there should be special provisions for the documents that the union should be able to request. We believe that this possibility already exists in the legislation we have. We think the government is breaking open doors and making things more difficult for companies that want to operate here. Instead, tell the union to state what the collective agreements are to be followed and to take action if the companies do not comply with them. Then we'll get the job together.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-139	Mr. Old President! Yes, Building needed updating. Let me now update the House. Now there is even a page where Building across Europe shows which conditions apply. It is clear that it is in the interests of trade unions that their agreements be clear, registered, transparent and easily accessible to others. That also applies to Building. Previously, it was a problem, as Mrs Pethrus said. But it is no longer, because there is a strong interest in getting this legislation in place, and then the rules are followed. It is in the trade union's self-interest to do so. So I do not think this is a problem. We don't know what the future is. Someone said that there are industries that will never be subject to posting. But we do not know how the labour market changes. That is why it is a good way to go about getting this order, that transparency exists and that the trade unions have reported this. Posting firms can take note of this, know what the conditions are and can submit their bids after that. At the same time, we are eliminating unhealthy competition. As far as Building is concerned, I promise Désirée Pethrus that there is no problem.
i-V1jj3CH41rPd1hwGhGW2mt	Mr. Old President! I support the committee's proposal. Let me start with a few words about collective agreements and the aversion to collective agreements that I sometimes experience in this House. What is a collective agreement? Is it a terrible weapon that has been put in the hands of the trade unions to hit the head of poor unsuspecting entrepreneurs? Are not collective agreements an agreement between the social partners, supported by both employers and trade unions, which they have negotiated together and signed in concert? So it is not an abomination, but it is this that is the Swedish model. I have worked in retail for about 14 years of my life, half of my time as an entrepreneur and half as a store manager. I've always had a collective agreement. I have urged my employees to join the union and, where there has been evidence, to form local professional clubs. It's nothing strange, it's a matter of course in the Swedish model. I find it difficult to understand the aversion to collective agreements. It is not just the collective agreements of the trade unions. These are the social partners' collective agreements. It's their joint document. Well, enough about this. The Social Democrats have finally recognised the importance of a level playing field for companies operating on the Swedish market. It is pleasing, but perhaps not enough. If the Social Democrats are serious about this, you have to go all the way. In order to achieve the objective of a level playing field, one must dare to go a little further. The Swedish democrats have long pointed out the problem and worked for healthier conditions of competition on the Swedish labour market. In order not to fall on the finish line, the Swedish Democrats have proposed three more sharpenings in our particular opinion. We want monthly reporting and notification to be mandatory for all companies that have posted workers in Sweden. There is in itself already a regulatory framework – I think it is from 1 July 2013 – that you should report posted labour to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. However, it does not seem to be working satisfactorily, especially with regard to the control of working conditions. The proposal on monthly reporting and notification obligations does not mean that the regulations are treated as what applies to Swedish companies, but that they have similar conditions for companies operating in the Swedish labour market. At present, despite this obligation to notify, which to some extent already exists in relation to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, it is uncertain how many posted employees are on the Swedish labour market, what working conditions they work under, how long they have been in Sweden and how long they will stay. The Swedish Democrats believe that a time limit should be set for how long an employee can be posted to Sweden. We share this view with the European Commission for some time now. However, we do not agree on the deadlines. The Swedish Democrats believe that the deadline should be set at three months. After that, the worker should possibly be duly immigrated. It is a reasonable requirement that those who work in Sweden for a longer period of time undergo government review and that taxes and fees are paid in Sweden. In 2014, the main contractor's responsibility was included in the construction contract. This means that the company at the top has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that working conditions, wages and collective agreements are followed by all sub-contractors in the workplace. However, this agreement only applies to a limited extent. The Swedish democrats' view is that all companies and employees in the construction sector should be subject to statutory principal responsibilities, regardless of their country of origin, union membership or whether the company is organised in an employer's organisation or not. I know that the Government Office is working on this issue, and I look forward to a bill before the elections. In order for the proposal to go through the Swedish parliament's treatment easily and smoothly, I call on the government to talk to us Swedish democrats. In this way, we can avoid the same government failure that became with the procurement rules. Mr. Old President! The Social Democrats are on the right track on this issue, but as I said, this is far from enough to get the Swedish labour market in order. There are still problems with labour immigration regulations, among other things. While we allow labour migration to easier jobs, which may well be carried out by the domestic labour force that is currently unemployed, not least the groups furthest from the labour market, many companies find it difficult to recruit qualified jobs that require both training and experience. It is unreasonable for us to allow the labour migration of unskilled workers to easier jobs. In cases where it is not possible to find or train qualified workers within Sweden within a reasonable period of time, we must also simplify for these companies. It is unreasonable that the processing times at the Migration Agency are so long that qualified workers seek their way away from Sweden. It is also unreasonable for qualified and needed foreign workers to be thrown out of Sweden because employers have paid a fifty-piece too little in wages per month or so. Here we are Swedish democrats prepared to talk without preconditions and cooperate with others in order to arrive at a more reasonable regulatory framework.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-162	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the Government's proposals for amendments to the Posting of Workers Act. It is about the rules that apply when workers from another country are sent to Sweden to work temporarily here in the country. The purpose of the amendments is for the Swedish model to work better in posting situations. The legislative changes also remove and replace the so-called lex Laval with a new system that implements the EU rules on posting more effectively and effectively. Mr. Old President! The Green Party welcomes these legislative changes. It is important that people who come to our country to work have at least as good working conditions as our Swedish workers. Among other things, the Government proposes increased control powers and an obligation for posting employers to appoint a representative with competence to negotiate and conclude collective agreements. The most important change in the bill is that trade unions should always be able to demand Swedish collective agreements, ultimately with the support of combat measures. Mr. Old President! The Green Party welcomes the fact that people from other EU countries come here to work. Freedom of movement is important, just as important as working conditions, for those workers who end up in Sweden. The same applies to competition between undertakings. The competence and nothing else should be the guiding principle. Mr. Old President! The provisions proposed by the Government aim to increase transparency and predictability of postings. The posting companies should be able to find out more easily the conditions that apply on the Swedish market. It is gratifying that the legislative amendment also proposes protection against reprisals of posted workers. As an individual worker, you are not strong enough to try to correct whether you have got into a dispute with your employer or do not dare to go against your employer because of the risk of being sent home and thus losing your job. For the Green Party, it goes without saying that those who come to us to work should have good conditions, no matter where they come from. We as the host country must ensure that workers' rights are guaranteed and respected. Mr. Old President! Another aspect that is important to consider is the high numbers of deaths among people from another country who work temporarily in Sweden. According to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, there were 25 deaths in workplaces between 2011 and 2014. The figure is probably higher, as the Swedish Work Environment Authority notes that deaths and serious events among foreign workers in Sweden are not reported to the extent that they should. The reason for the low rate of notification is considered, among other things, a lack of information. That is why I hope that with better control, transparency and stricter rules, I will help to minimise deaths in the workplace and eventually disappear completely. With those words, I call for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-172	Mr. Old President! We have, and I think I share this with everyone in this House, taken note of information, often from the media, from acquaintances or from meetings in the workplace, dealing with people who work without a protective position. We can also see them on scaffolding here in town. As Marco Venega told the people who were killed at their workplace. People work for a spit styve far below decent working conditions on the Swedish labour market. People sleep at their workplace. The other day the Swedish Work Environment Authority told us that it finds such things and cannot act because it does not conflict with the work environment rules. But, of course, it is about working conditions. We also heard Raimo Pärssinen talk about Swedish companies that are out-competed by foreign companies that do not pay wages according to the minimum level of the Swedish collective agreements, but only a fraction. I hope and believe that everyone gets upset when they take part in it. At least me and the government will be. I am very concerned about the emergence of a shadow society, not least in the labour market. We see several such signs. We also know that there is no easy solution to this. The proposal on which we are to debate and decide today will not solve all these problems. Many problems have a completely different basis than posting. Human resources in the construction industry will not solve all the problems. Cooperation between the Swedish Work Environment Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency will not solve all problems. Future proposals on entrepreneurial responsibility, future tightening up of the registration of foreign workers or future legislative proposals on tightening up and more reasonable labour market rules will not solve all the problems either. But together, step by step, we can actually create order for the Swedish labour market. The problems are serious and difficult. And if you think you're going to find a solution for all the problems you'll never find it, we'll have to take it step by step. The proposal we are now debating is an important building block in this. Sweden's membership of the EU is an enormous advantage for Sweden. We benefit from it in the Swedish economy – Swedish citizens, Swedish companies and the whole of Sweden. Membership is of great benefit to Sweden. This is important, and the internal market is one of the most important elements. A well-functioning internal market in the EU is an enormous advantage for the EU and for Sweden – for Swedish citizens, the Swedish economy and Swedish companies. That is why it is so important that we make the regulatory changes and changes to the legislation that enable the internal market with free movement to function properly. Then we must ensure that we can do so, both at European and national level. I also think it is extremely important that all of us who are in favour of the free market, freedom of movement and membership of the European Union are clear that free movement does not mean freedom to dump conditions or to exploit people. If we allow this similarity to be established, I believe that we have had enormous problems, which may ultimately lead to precisely the kind of reasoning that I believe was the basis for, for example, parts of the Brexit discussion. Free movement is of benefit to Sweden, and free movement is not the same as accepting poor conditions or the exploitation of workers. We have a great deal of agreement on this in the European Union, and I hope and believe that we have a great deal of agreement on it in this House too. At least I wish I could. If you think so, you have to answer the question: How should this be ensured? How do we ensure that freedom of movement does not mean the freedom to dump conditions or to exploit people? Then you can choose different paths. European legislation gives us the opportunity to choose different paths. The Swedish labour market model can be used. To be honest, it is a bit more difficult, because the Swedish labour market model is quite odd. We share it with Denmark and partly with Finland in the EU. In the EU context, it is a bit odd, but it is a possible way to go. Another way forward is that of legislating minimum wages and minimum conditions and employing state wage inspectors who are in the workplace and taking action against employers who do not pay wages that are in accordance with the law. So you can choose different paths. The government has chosen and chooses the Swedish model. We want to use this model because we believe it serves Sweden well. We think it is better than the model used in a number of other EU countries. It has created good growth, good adaptability and good real wage development in Sweden. We have found a path in which we can ensure employees' conditions, the competitiveness of companies and flexibility in the labour market that does not go beyond the security of employees. I think it is a very good model. That is why the government wants to uphold this model. Then we must ensure that it works. When I have listened to a few speeches in this House, I wonder whether you really understand how it works. I would therefore like to remind you of one thing: in Sweden, there is nothing that guarantees what salary an employee should receive if there is no collective agreement in a company. That is why we have given the trade unions far-reaching opportunities to take action to bring about a collective agreement. Most of the time, you don't have to take action. Collective agreements are usually written because companies also recognise that it is important that this applies to everyone. The company that writes a collective agreement naturally wants the competitor to do the same. This is why companies and employers also want the union to be at all levels. Otherwise, it would be unfair if this were demanded only by some and some competitors did not have to do so. We must therefore be confident that the union, regardless of the company involved, will always take action on their part of the cake, that is to say, ultimately demand action to bring about collective agreements. When a collective agreement exists, so to speak, clicks all the paths that we have in. If someone violates it, you can go to the Labour Court, and then the individual can claim his or her rights and much more. If a Swedish company says that it already pays wages that are at least as good as those that apply under collective agreements, nothing will stop this company from fighting. The union always has the right to demand collective agreements. That's how our Swedish model works. If the union fails to fulfil its task, all other employers will be betrayed because there will be unfair competition. Now we have foreign companies with posted workers in Sweden. Even then, we must ensure that the Swedish model can work. It only does so if you can make the same demands on companies with posted workers as in the Swedish countries so that we have fair competition between them. Lex Laval is a restriction on this right. The actual effect has been zero conflicts and zero announced measures because of the far-reaching damages that we have in the Swedish model. The union has great rights but also great obligations. This means that if you break this and take an action that is not legal, it will be very expensive. Sweden has received international criticism for this. The European Committee for Social Rights and the ILO Committee of Experts have criticised Sweden, and they believe that lex Laval means that Sweden violates international commitments for fundamental trade union rights. Swedish companies also often testify to this. What should they do when the union does not require the minimum conditions of the competitor? Then who's going to demand it? There's no one to do that. It's kind of empty. The alternative then is that you have a government payroll inspector who does. It's a way to go. But then you have to choose it. When you listen to the debate here, it sounds like everyone agrees that minimum wages and the hard core of collective agreements should apply to posted workers, that is to say, that we should live up to current EU law. The Posting of Workers Directive says we should do it. It's a protection directive. Under EU law, we are obliged to protect posted workers here, so that they receive minimum wages under Swedish collective agreements. Sweden as a country has an obligation to ensure this. I mean, we're not living up to that today. If you look at what we are going to live up to, my question is to those who now intend to vote against the proposal: how else can you ensure that this works and that you can actually give minimum wages according to the hard core of posted workers? Views can be made on this with minimum wages and the hard core. I have comments on that. But that is the legislation that applies, and that is what we are going to comply with. Membership of the European Union involves both rights and obligations. You don't always get what you want, but the rules that apply must be followed. But overall it gives Sweden great advantages to be a member. It also means that it is self-evident, I think, that the companies coming from a country other than the European Union are not treated equally, because we do not have the same rights and obligations in other ways either. The reason why we have the hard core for companies in the EU is that we also have other regulations that ensure – or should ensure – that companies in their home countries pay other social security contributions, for example, or pensions and other things that are not part of the hard core. This does not apply to a company coming from outside the EU. There's nothing like that. The Union is therefore like a club in which we are members and have both rights and obligations. Why do I bring this up with membership? Well, I think it's important if you think it's important for Sweden to be a member. The Left Party does not want to be a member of the EU, and the Swedish Democrats do not want that either. The Swedish democrats also want to prevent cross-border mobility in other ways. However, I and the government want Sweden to be a member of the EU. We believe that membership of the European Union is extremely good and valuable for Sweden, and we believe that the European Union as an institution is extremely good and important for Europe – not least in these times. We must therefore safeguard and ensure that we have working regulations so that mobility actually works and does not lead to the requirement that Sweden should not be a member of the European Union. Every company I speak to welcomes competition. It is part of free business and free enterprise. It also welcomes foreign competition. One of the reasons why you run a business is that you want to show that you are better at doing something. They want to show that they can do it better, at more competitive prices than others or more innovative. It is an important driving force, and it welcomes competition. The value of the internal market is also seen. However, all the companies I talk to ask, quite rightly, how they will be able to compete if the union does not do its job, i.e. requires the minimum conditions of the competitor. How can we ensure fair competition? In the Swedish model, there is no one else to turn to. There have been a number of questions from the debaters here, and I hope that you will support the change of line so that I can answer them there and do not overwhelm my speaking time too much. Nevertheless, I would like to say something about transparency. For this to work, it is absolutely essential that a company that wants to post workers in Sweden can know in advance what conditions apply. It's absolutely crucial. Transparency is therefore essential for a functioning system. That is why we are tightening up the requirements of this legislation, and that is why I have also had a far-reaching dialogue with the parties on this. I am very pleased that the construction sector now agrees on the interpretation of its collective agreement in this area. I am very happy about constructionworkers.eu, where you can compare all construction salaries in all 28 Member States in a very transparent and simple way. This does not, of course, eliminate the requirement to submit collective agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, but transparency is essential for this to work. Mr. Old President! To conclude, I am extremely proud today that we have put this proposal on the table of Parliament. I hope that there will be a yes to the bill and that we can implement a new legislation from 1 June. It is a very important building block to defend the Swedish model. Later today, the European Commission will present proposals for a social pillar. I know that there are many with me who have felt some concern about whether there will be proposals that in some way threaten the Swedish labour market model. Let's see, at the press conference in a few hours. However, if you think it is important to protect the Swedish labour market model, you should vote in favour of the bill that is on the table today.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-203	Mr. Old President! I have a lot of questions, but I thought I'd start with freedom of movement. The Minister used a large part of his speech to talk about it. The group we are talking about today is temporarily posted to Sweden. As several of my colleagues have been involved in, on average, about 7 000 workers per month – compared to the 5 million people working in Sweden. It is therefore a relatively small group we are talking about, but, as I said in my speech, it is necessary in certain sectors to have this additional competence. This applies, among other things, to the construction industry. All of us in here want the building act to be increased, because we have a major housing shortage. That the government then wants to satisfy LO's desire to counteract foreign labour in Sweden and that the Swedish Democrats are willing to close the borders I think is completely the wrong way to go. The abolition of the rule of proof means, as my colleagues and I too have been talking about, that fighting measures can be taken even if the minimum conditions in the hard core are met. Thus, a seconded employer will not be able to make peace with combat measures, and this means that business risks are increasing. It will be less attractive for companies from other countries to come here. It is not to increase freedom of movement. As has already been said, it is difficult to obtain sufficient labour and skills in the construction sector. Sweden has high construction costs compared to the rest of the EU, and they are now in danger of being even higher. Swedish consumers and taxpayers are at risk of becoming the big losers. In the long run, this also applies to workers and job seekers, who need to move to where there are jobs but no housing. In this situation, when Sweden has a pressing need to increase the number of homes, I do not understand why the government wants to make it more difficult for skills and labour in the construction sector.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-207	Mr. Old President! Sweden will need more posted labour. That is my assessment, and so is my wish. This is particularly true in the construction sector, and that is why I am in favour of free movement. That is the whole point of free movement – that when we have great needs in a particular country, we can use labour from other EU Member States. The fact that we actually have that opportunity is a big point in being in the European Union. In other times, Swedish companies can also take assignments in other countries. That's one of the points. Last year, the seconded labour force increased by 12 per cent in Sweden, according to what was reported. I suspect that some were not reported, but it increased by 12% among what was reported. We therefore need more of this. It's not true that we're closing any boundaries. It is not true that this is some form of protectionism. Jessika Roswall says the companies can't make peace with combat measures. Yes, they can. All employers can settle for themselves in exactly the same way as any Swedish company can settle against combat measures, namely by signing a contract. That's how our model works. One might think that this is a bad model and that companies should be able to say One might certainly think so, but then the same should apply to Swedish companies as to those companies that want to post workers in Sweden. If you think that a model should apply to the Swedish companies, which can only settle by signing collective agreements, then it must apply to everyone. One can have a discussion about, for example, the harbour in Gothenburg, where one has signed collective agreements and still cannot settle. I think that is a particular problem that requires discussion. But if you think it is a sensible model, it must also apply to everyone. I have too many discussions with my colleagues in the European Union on these issues. We come from different parties and different countries, but I have to say that there is no one who understands that there are representatives in the Swedish Parliament who do not think that one should have a model where it is possible to maintain the level – that is, have tools to have the minimum wage we are obliged to maintain.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-212	Mr. Old President! I don't know where to start. It's possible I don't understand. We have a law, lex Laval. We believe that it has worked well to preserve and monitor the Swedish model, while at the same time safeguarding freedom of movement. I don't feel at all alone in feeling it; I think, among other things, that the Law Council is very clear. I don't need to read it out, but it says on p. 2 why the Law Council doesn't think what's claimed to be a need. It was freedom of movement. The second point raised by the Minister in his speech was transparency. I think that many things that were said were good, but basic to ensure good conditions is that you should be able to know what applies when you come to Sweden. So far, however, there are very few trade unions that have submitted collective agreements, as many have done. I and others with me do not understand why the government does not want to impose sanctions to deal with these problems.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-215	Mr. Old President! You might think that lex Laval has worked well. After all, it has worked so that no trade union has ever been able to act for any posted company with any kind of notice since it was introduced. Is it a well-functioning labour market when this never happens? This is not the view of the companies that are being outcompeted by the fact that the union does not make demands, but they feel discriminated against. It is a discussion I often have with the European Commission: how can one be sure that the union really makes the same demands on all employers? Yeah, we've actually been able to be sure of that. We are only demanding collective agreements from some and ignoring others, but we have called for them all over the board. But now it is not being done for posting companies, and so our ability to protect falls. I cannot tell the Commission that I am sure these companies will live up to the minimum wage, because we have absolutely no control over it. We don't have any other system either. You can choose this system, but then you have to introduce state wage inspectors who are out doing checks, because someone has to check it. If we are to live up to the EU acquis, which I think we should do – if you are in a club, you should live up to the acquis that exists, whether you like it or not – we must have protection legislation that ensures that employees receive the minimum wage and the hard core of the collective agreement. We don't have that today. If we do not think that we should implement the legislative amendment proposed, which is based on the fact that it is the trade unions who are supposed to maintain it, in the same way as the rest of the labour market, then we have to put forward some other proposal. However, not making proposals is, in my view, a betrayal of both the commitments that we have within the European Union and the posted workers that we have to protect. I would like to emphasise that it is essential that we have transparency. The system does not work unless posting companies can know in advance what conditions they have to comply with. It is impossible to submit a quote if you do not know what wages and other conditions apply. This is absolutely fundamental, and we will follow it closely to ensure that transparency works.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-223	Mr. Old President! It is interesting to listen to the argument that today there would be no tools or opportunity to follow up on this. One of the elements included in the proposal for lex Laval made it clear that it would be possible to follow up and require compliance with the agreements and conditions that the company has with it from home. Many of the concerns on the labour market are not linked to this, but relate to other areas. Some of the criticisms are that this legislation is very far-reaching but does not address these other types of concerns. In lex Laval, there is the possibility and the tools to require that the provisions that are stated to apply actually also apply, and it is possible to think about why this has not been done. In the investigation that I was part of, which is part of the basis for this proposal, the participating lawyers were clear that the tools exist but that they were chosen not to use them. What are the arguments with regard to this part? Why have these tools not been used in the past? Those who have agreements with them from their own country must now also sign agreements with these conditions. This is something of a departure from the Swedish model, which is that the person who has an agreement is protected by that agreement.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-229	Mr. Old President! What Annika Qarlsson says is absolutely correct. I have no illusions that this bill solves all the major problems we have with the emergence of a shadow society in the Swedish labour market. I will return to Parliament with further proposals. We will have to do so in a wide range of areas, both in my area and in the areas of other ministers, to ensure this. Some we have done, and more will come. On this issue, we agree that this is the case. With current legislation, there is the possibility for an individual who is posted to Sweden to go to a Swedish court and claim salary according to Swedish collective agreements' minimum standards. This is possible. However, it is not a system that is really very Swedish. The Swedish model is based on having an agreement that you go to the Labour Court to ensure. If the Labour Court finds that the employer has not complied with the agreement, a sanction is imposed on the employer. If, instead, one is judged to have acted unwittingly, the trade union organisation itself may have to pay the costs of the proceedings. That is how it works, and this model has worked quite well. We have not built up a system that relies on the individual himself going to court to get his or her salary. In addition, there is nothing to ensure that any sanction is imposed on the employer if the employer has paid the wrong salary. This is another way to work. I accept that you can choose that way, but then you should reasonably use that model as well. It will be strange if we are to have a system that applies to most of the Swedish labour market but another system that applies to posted workers, where we have not developed the tools that would be needed for us to be able to live up to our commitments. I have respect for whether you want to do this, but it is strange if you do not want anything in addition to continuing as we do now, when we cannot secure the salaries of seconded workers.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-235	Mr. Old President! The Minister for Labour's claim that there are currently no tools to carry out these checks is not true. With the rule of proof, it is possible for trade unions to enter and demand that the agreements they say apply as well. Another point I would like to make is the submission of the agreements. In the investigation that I participated in, there were dividing lines as to how it was felt that we needed to proceed with these elements. If foreign companies are to have any conditions and opportunities to come here, to know what applies and to be able to count home assignments and work, they need to know which conditions apply. Of all the agreements that exist on the Swedish labour market, very few have been submitted, and it is perhaps a little naive to think that this is changing just because the Minister for Labour is doing a follow-up. I would say that it would be necessary to provide for the possibility not to require or follow up these agreements if they are not submitted. Above all, this would be an important factor in getting the Swedish labour market in order. I would also like to make some kind of statement on the issue of mobility. This issue is an absolutely crucial part of the Europe that we are seeing emerging. This includes many different types of discussions, concerning migration and labour migration as well as the rules for the Swedish labour market. Even in this part one can talk warm because mobility is important. I believe, however, that it is crucial that these discussions and the proposals that they make are clear that they do not want to restrict and complicate this type of mobility. It only weakens, and it represents a step in the wrong direction, which is a serious part of this proposal as well.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-241	Mr. Old President! With this bill, we defend freedom of movement. I think it is extremely important to understand that if you want to be a member of the European Union and if you think that a single market is good and with free movement you have to be able to answer people that free movement does not mean freedom to use people on substandard terms. We must be able to respond to this, otherwise people will turn against the EU and freedom of movement, which would be devastating for Sweden. This is about a responsibility that you have to take as a politician. Anyone who goes to different workplaces will meet people who have the reality that the borders should be closed or that we should not be members of the European Union, because that is the only way to solve the problems of dumping and exploitation of people. This is wrong. It can be resolved anyway, as we show with this bill. I think it is important that we politicians take responsibility for not ending up in the terrible discussion that we have seen an important Member State end up in – a discussion that has long since left reality and facts behind and which has resulted in the Member State now leaving the Union. This is very serious. I have said it before and can say it again: Transparency is absolutely crucial. I share that view. Companies need to be able to know what applies if they are to be able to bid – this is absolutely necessary. For this to work, collective agreements must be submitted, but if we are to be honest, it is also necessary for the parties to interpret their collective agreements in a common way. For example, the construction agreement is almost impossible to understand for anyone other than those who have signed it themselves. In other words, it is important that the parties are involved in the interpretation of the agreements, so that it can be easily clarified to the companies that come here. It is therefore a little more complex than just submitting, but I share the view that this is extremely important to do. Finally, I would like to say something about the rule of proof. This rule actually means that you don't have to prove anything, you might say. The rule of proof is momentary. If companies say that they are currently paying minimum wages under collective agreements, this does not mean that they need to do so tomorrow, because there is no agreement. If you pay according to the minimum wage, what is the problem? Make a deal!
i-ddffc01e6b485468-250	Mr. Old President! This is an important debate. I think it's pretty hard to listen to it, because it's a pretty complicated matter. The Government says that we should take step by step and that this is good for the labour market in Sweden. Yes, but is it good for mobility in the EU labour market, the slightly larger labour market that we also want? As I said before, we have 680 collective agreements in Sweden. We have said before, and that says EU law, that then we must tell those who want to come here and be posted what the agreement is. Then you have had to submit it to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, something that Building, at least before, has never said itself really want to do. That is why the report came from Middelman, who said that she thinks that it should be clarified the obligation for employee organisations to submit collective agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. And it's important and the foundation, so you know what's going on. But now, if I understand correctly, the government wants to force those posted here to sign a Swedish collective agreement. Are we forced to sign collective agreements in the labour market? No, we don't. It is not the Swedish model. Here we go outside the Swedish model. Is it proportionate, according to the Government? Not many people, I think, are involved. If an employer's organisation runs such a case in the European Court of Justice, does the Government believe that it will win in accordance with EU law? And if the contract is worse for the employee than in the home country, what happens then?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-255	Mr. Old President! I shall give the four bourgeois parties the right to one point. It may be that mobility is even greater if you are allowed to dump wages and do not have to pay the minimum wage, but I do not think that you want it that way. In fact, I think you want to stand up for minimum wages to apply under the directive. If we are then to ensure that the legislation that applies at EU level is also properly implemented in Sweden, there may be companies that do not come here because they think it is not profitable enough, because they have paid their employees 30, 40 or 50 SEK an hour. Of course, that may be the case, but we do not want it to come here in order to give people poor conditions. If we agree that the minimum level should apply under the Posting of Workers Directive, there is nothing in the proposal that would reduce mobility or make fewer people come here, but you have to pay exactly what you are already going to pay today. But there we disagree about whether or not you really pay it. No, Désirée Pethrus, we do not impose collective agreements in Sweden. Nor will it be for posted companies, but it will be the same model. We have a model that gives the union a far-reaching right to demand collective agreements, also ultimately with combat measures, and we have been able to rely on the union to do so without discrimination, that is, for everyone. We must now ensure that Swedish companies are not discriminated against by the fact that the union does not actually feel able to make the same demands, i.e. make its part of the agreement, its part of the work on the Swedish labour market, so that there will be equal treatment of Swedish companies and companies posting in Sweden. This is what we expect Swedish companies to meet when they post or sell services in another country.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-259	Mr. Old President! I do not know whether this will really solve what the Government wants to solve in the labour market. We all want to get to the problem if someone dumps wages, because it is not allowed under EU law, nor under our Swedish lex Laval today. That is why it is up to the social partners, and the unions can act then. The Government says that there is no need to sign a special collective agreement. Then I don't really understand what the difference is with today. This makes it more difficult for those who want to come to Sweden, and it becomes much harder for them to know what is going on. How should you know what collective agreements apply in all different sectors if you have a company in Poland and want to second staff to help in the construction sector here? How do you know which collective agreements to follow before you get here? I would like to know, as I asked the Government, what would happen if a person were to have a better agreement in his own country if he were to come from Poland? It will also be posted from other countries, such as India, working in the IT sector. If a case is brought before the EU Court of Justice regarding such an agreement, does the Government believe that Sweden will win? Will this proposal be valid under EU law?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-263	Mr. Old President! Désirée Pethrus asks if this will solve the problems. The truth is that we cannot know for certain, because it is based on a third party, namely that Building or other affected trade unions do their part of the job. If they don't, we have a problem. However, trade unions do their part of the job in all other parts of the labour market. Let's hope it works in this part too. But of course, if they don't, we have a problem. Then we must consider whether the Swedish model can survive. Trade unions also know what a great responsibility they now have. Transparency is crucial. How is a company supposed to know what's going on? Well, you should know that partly through submitted collective agreements, which we increase the demands for, partly because there is a contact person who can answer questions about collective agreements. It's important. We have many civil servants' organisations that have unnumbered agreements, and then it is not easy to understand what is a minimum level in them. It is therefore important that the collective agreement be interpreted by the parties so that it is understandable to the person who is to post and take part in it. If someone is posting from India to Sweden, the Posting of Workers Directive does not apply because India is not an EU country, but it applies to Swedish legislation, and so should it be, as I said in my main speech. We are part of the club EU and get to take some things that we are not always so fond of, but overall it is a very good idea for Sweden, Swedish companies and Swedish citizens to be part of it. As I believe everyone in this House knows, the Postings Directive is not my favorite. I'd like to change that. But when it comes to applying it. It is an obligation we have towards each other as members of the European Union. I expect other Member States to also implement legislation, although they are not always very fond of it. That is an important precondition. Yes, I am confident that this is compatible with EU law.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-268	Mr. Old President! This debate, which has been going on for almost two hours, is basically about fair conditions for both workers and employers. This has been made clear in the debate, not least in the last shift of line. It is important to stress that this debate is not only about the right conditions for workers, but also for employers. Today we have unhealthy competition in the Swedish labour market where employers are being pitted against each other and forced to dump their own wages and conditions, which is bad for both workers and employers. It creates a problematic labour market in Sweden, something on which we have heard during the debate that the EU has quite strong views. Mr. Old President! Jesper Göransson, CEO of Peab – one of the largest construction companies in Sweden – is very positive about the government's proposal to tear up lex Laval. I would like to read a quote about what Mr Peab's President and CEO thinks about the proposal that is on the table for voting today. This is how Jesper Göransson answers the question of what consequences the proposal would have for Peab:.It is not whether Peab would benefit or be disadvantaged with the proposal. It is a question of having competition on equal terms and the rules of the game that apply to all. It can't be any clearer than that. This is exactly what one says at one of Sweden's largest construction companies. A Swedish interest organisation that usually has strong opinions about the construction sector, not least when it comes to the fact that a torn-up lex Laval could lead to better conditions in the labour market, is Sweden's Construction industries, i.e. the opposite of Building that has been mentioned many times here today. Sweden's Construction Industries are also in favour of the proposal that is on the table here today and that will be put to the vote this afternoon, that is, the proposal that we are debating right now. The Deputy CEO and Head of Negotiation of the Swedish Construction Industries is Mats Åkerlind. On a question of what he thinks about the proposal to tear up lex Laval in order to create healthy competition in the Swedish labour market, he answers that the bill now being presented on new rules for posting is a step in the right direction. Then it is very strange that the debaters from the four bourgeois parties put words in the mouth of the construction sector in Swedish industry, that this would be negative for that sector. It's the other way around. You want this. I would therefore like to ask the alliance parties, or rather the former alliance parties, the bourgeois parties: Is Peab wrong in this case? Are Swedish Construction Industries Wrong? If they do not, have the bourgeois parties in the Swedish parliament invented their own version of the Swedish model? Perhaps it is a model that no one else stands for, but which they have invented, in this Chamber or elsewhere, at some party headquarters. Perhaps it is a Swedish model that only exists in the ideas and brains of bourgeois thinkers. As far as I know, the Swedish model is based on the agreement of the social partners. The parties Building and Swedish Construction Industries think this is an excellent proposal to achieve basic equal opportunities and fair competition in the Swedish construction labour market. But the bourgeois parties are against it, with the argument that business would be against it. It's very strange. This is an interesting question. As many have mentioned during the debate, it is crucial for our society. Madam President, I would like I would also like to speak a little about the Swedish Democrats, who are also in the debate and who will be voting this afternoon. For the Swedish Democrats, today's position on lex Laval seems rather a diversion. We should not forget that in December the Swedish Democrats voted against employees' conditions. We should not forget that they voted in favour of continuing to dump wages on the labour market when it comes to procurement. Nor should we forget that the Swedish Democrats are proposing quite serious attacks on labour law and have it included in their programmes. These proposals are presented in this House from time to time. For example, they want more exemptions in LAS. They even talk about a new type of employment that means that it will be possible to be a probationary employee for up to three years. So they have very anti-employee proposals. My conclusion is that it is not possible to trust the Swedish Democrats on these issues. It's weird. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström was in the speaker's seat earlier and spoke warmly in favour of collective agreements. But in December he voted to destroy the possibilities of demanding collective agreements in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats have an almost schizophrenic labour market policy. It is important that voters learn about this today. I have previously shown a compilation of the Swedish Democrats' labour market policy over the decades, since the party was founded. I'm not going through it all now. It starts in 1988 and goes all the way up to 2017. One might ask what labour market policy they will have later this year and think about what labour market policy they will have next year. It has been schizophrenic over the years – against employees, for employees, for employers and against employers. You don't really know where the Swedish Democrats stand. I would therefore like to ask Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström today what the Swedish Democrats will think about labour market policy tomorrow. What will they think next year? Election year 2018 is approaching. What will the Swedish democrats think about the labour market then? I would like Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström to ask for a reply, because I would like an answer to that. However, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström does not seem to want to take this debate. He's sitting in his chair shaking his head. The Swedish democrats have a new strategy. Over the past year, they have repeatedly refused to take the debate on labour market policy with us in this House. It shows once again that they do not have a labour market policy that holds true. They have anti-employee labour market policies. I will continue to ask the Swedish Democrats here from the pulpit, day after day, year after year, what their labour market policies are. When is it possible, will it ever be possible, to trust the Swedish Democrats? When it comes to labour market policy, I sometimes wonder if Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström trusts himself. Does he himself know what he will think of labour market policy tomorrow? It is a schizophrenic labour market policy that the Swedish Democrats stand for. You simply can never know what they stand for.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-288	Madam President, I would like This is interesting. Sweden's Byggindustrier has sent e-mails to everyone who participates in the debate. I assume that Magnus Manhammar has also received this email. He happens to mention a little loosely that they are very positive. They have lined up two things that they think are positive with the government proposal, which should therefore become law from today. It concerns a clearer obligation to notify the Swedish Work Environment Authority of the rules that apply. We're in the Alliance behind that. We are also clear that we think it would be good if it cost us not to report. The other thing Sweden's Construction industries are in favour of is the appointment of a contact person. We are also in favour of this. Sweden's construction industries line up four changes that they do not look as positive on, which should be set against the other two. First of all, there is the obligation to negotiate. As there are usually short postings, negotiating obligations are perceived as an obstacle and an uncertainty. The next issue is the increased possibility of taking action through companies that already apply conditions that meet the minimum conditions, which is a matter of concern. It is also incompatible with the Swedish model to allow an unorganized person to be granted an independent right to demand conditions and benefits in collective agreements and that the labour organisations have increased control possibilities for wage conditions and other conditions. Sweden's Construction industries also say that the proposal may be contrary to the free movement of services within the EU. Therefore, it feels a little strange when Magnus Manhammar is standing in the speaker's chair and says that Sweden's Byggindustrier thinks this is positive, that this is good. I think that perhaps you should include some other things, the whole thing, if you refer to them. This is going to be very strange. The alliance parties are not for unwholesome competition. Lex Laval is about creating conditions and rules that address Swedish rules but also adapt to EU law. That Peab is disappointed is because Building hasn't done its job. They have not used the space available in lex Laval to actually control.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-298	Madam President, I would like This debate has been strange. Judging by almost all the shifts with the bourgeois parties, it seems that they do not understand how the Swedish labour market works. It's unfortunate. It may also be the way they play that they do not know how the Swedish labour market works. It's a little sad that they put words in our mouths in different ways – what to think. I quoted earlier what Mats Åkerlind has said about the proposal. I have also read the objections. But in essence it is positive that the proposal is on the table of Parliament and that today we are going to take a positive decision on it. It is fundamentally positive, although there are some objections that may need to be included in the further work. But you can also see that it is a step along the way. The Swedish model is – once again – that it is the parties, in this case Building and Swedish Construction Industries, who will like this. If the parties are in agreement, as they are in fact on this, I think that we in Parliament should also be in favour of it. The Swedish model means nothing else. The Swedish model means that it is the parties who have the best knowledge of how to manage the labour market. We're gonna let them handle it, too.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-303	Madam President, I would like We politicians have the task of weighing different interests for and against each other, and of finding some kind of balance that our political parties can stand for. We're not gonna go on an individual's business. In this case, it can often be felt that there is an order job now to be delivered, for one of the parties. When we did the entire investigation that then resulted in lex Laval, the aim was to weigh different parts against each other and find some kind of compromise that followed the Swedish model and also took into account that we had to relate to EU law. The task of politics is not to go through individual affairs. The task of politics is to weigh together different values to ensure that a good society is created. When Magnus Manhammar says that he thinks it is good and that he therefore does this, then Magnus Manhammar has not included any part that affects the rest of the labour market, which affects mobility within the EU and which concerns other types of issues that are also of great importance. It feels a little naive. Recurrently it is said: Well, it sounds like the others don't understand how it works. It is also a way of avoiding the discussion. In the proposal on lex Laval, there was an opportunity to follow up and make sure to do their job and to check that the salaries indicated were also paid. The criticism that it has not worked during these years falls heavily back on the parties who have not ensured that they fulfil their responsibility to review and control the Swedish labour market.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-309	Madam President, I would like Several times during the debate, it has been mentioned that lex Laval is somehow a compromise. As long as it's a lie. At least there was no compromise here in Parliament because the Social Democrats voted against that law. So there is no compromise between the right and the left in the case of lex Laval. One may have compromised within the bourgeois parties. Maybe that's the kind of compromise you're talking about. But there is no compromise here in Parliament. Everything else is a lie. I find it a little unfortunate that we are talking about such a compromise. For example, there may have been a compromise on how much wages should be dumped. Mr Laval, as we have talked about here today, has taken away the opportunity for the social partners to ensure that there are fair conditions. That's the problem. Peab had not said this if you thought it would remove the carpet for Peab's opportunity to operate in Sweden. Mr Peab is in favour of this proposal because it contributes to fair competition, and that is how we want to operate in the labour market. Before I entered Parliament, I was just working for Building. I was out in countless workplaces, not least during the election year, to listen to people's stories like what it was like in the workplaces. Many times I met people from other countries who had not even been given employment conditions and who were earning $2.50 (U.S.) an hour. These people had been exploited and perhaps slept in their workplaces. That is how it looks around Sweden today. Only in the five municipalities in my constituency, Blekinge, during the election year there were examples in each municipality that people were exploited because of the lex Laval and the opportunity that lex Laval offers to exploit people. We want to stop that here today. Today there is a proposal that I and everyone else who intends to vote on is proud of. It is a very good proposal that will ensure that there will be healthy competition in the Swedish construction labour market and in the labour market in general and that there will be a level playing field for everyone. I'm proud of that.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-314	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate the AU10 Work Environment and Working Time. Of course we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 8 and 10. The Swedish Democrats want to double the limitation period for occupational health and safety offences from today's two years for offences of normal grade and five years for serious crime, i.e. four years and ten years. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is working today to extend its inspections, but unfortunately that is not enough. The guilty must also be able to be prosecuted and convicted, and as things stand, many escape because of the short limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences. It is difficult to understand why work environment crimes, which often take a long time to sort out, should be written off so quickly. Giving prosecutors and police twice as much time for investigation would likely cause more guilty people to be convicted. Madam President, I would like Another important aspect of extended times is that today's labour market looks different since the Swedish parliament chose to vote by giving more power over the Swedish labour market to the EU. Today, it is the practice that contracts are carried out in many stages and often through temporary agencies, which makes the police's work difficult in the event of accidents. It is gratifying that we can now see that several trade unions and also the leadership of LO see the problems and have flagged because they want to see extended limitation periods for the reasons mentioned in the Swedish Democrats' motion. That is very pleasing. I have met several union representatives who think it is a great proposal. Therefore, we find it rather strange that the government parties choose to disarm the motion when they claim to protect and want order on the Swedish labour market. I think it is a step in the wrong direction. And not only that, you also choose in the spring budget – if you read carefully – to lower the funding for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. These are not large sums of money, but they send out the wrong signals to get the workplaces in order. The money involved can mean precisely the 20 workplace visits that had saved the lives of one or two people, we do not know. It punishes Swedish employees through its tax policy, and now it also chooses to remove the right for more victims and relatives to obtain redress and the right to show applicable accidents at workplaces. It is quite the wrong signal if you consider yourself to be a government that protects order for employees at our Swedish workplaces. It's kind of distressing, I think. Madam President, I would like About 100 000 municipal workers in Sweden have shared tours with involuntary, unpaid hole hours. According to the Association of Local Authorities, nine out of ten municipalities use shared tours. Moreover, the incidence appears to have increased significantly in recent years. Does the government's representative think this is a reasonable development? Once again, we see that the government with the Social Democrats in the leadership shirt does not listen to its grass roots and members in the municipalities. That a so-called feminist government does so little to prevent women's sickness rate, that is substandard. It's, to put it bluntly, terrible. How many families are affected by this? It is completely disrespectful to expect people to be practically available for work for 13 hours, but only get paid for 7. This is the reality for many people in Sweden. Shared tours have several negative consequences for both the individual and society, especially for those living in rural areas. They may live far away from their place of work and do not make it home in the so - called hole hours. Instead, they will have to spend time waiting for the next shift. As a result, work shifts, where no private time is actually included, are both long and unpaid. Does the government think this is the right way to go? For the individual, this becomes both psychologically and physically stressful. Those who work in health care, often women, testify that they cannot give their patients full support and attention during session n umme r two. They're just too tired. For society, this has measurable consequences, mainly in the form of increased sick leave rates. Although it has been on the agenda for many years, very little has happened. It even seems to be getting worse. It seems that the government is turning a blind eye to this issue. One went out and said that as soon as there was a change of government one would take hold of this. Now we have changed the government, and nothing has happened. The primary cause is likely reductions in staff and resources. In the elderly, 1 in 10 employees has disappeared since 2002, while older people have increased. The Swedish Democrats believe that the government should return as soon as possible with proposals to abolish involuntarily shared tours. It is time to tackle this problem and not just sweep it under the carpet.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-331	Madam President, I would like The next issue we are going to discuss is the working environment and working time. It is a discussion that goes all the way through the world of work, but which looks a little different given what risks there are. It depends on where you work and where you live in the world. Many times we have focused on fatal accidents. It is absolutely the most terrible thing that can happen not to survive the day at work and not to come home. There has been work for many years to ensure that such risks are eliminated, and a few years ago we adopted a zero vision. That's easier said than done. It is more difficult to put it into practice. It will be interesting to listen to what Magnus Manhammar has to say about how zero vision work progresses. During our time in government, we changed our working methods. We tried to turn this around and to focus instead on those in risk sectors and those areas of work where there is a greater risk of death. We wanted to be able to focus more closely on those issues. In this choice of working method, we also tried to see where it is that we need to deploy the efforts and resources that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has at its disposal. Among the companies we see that there are those who can and want to do good work in terms of working environment. There are companies that can but may not put so much energy into it. There are those who want to but who do not have the knowledge, and there the task of the Work environment is extremely important and essential: to add that kind of knowledge. But then there is also a small category that cannot and will not. This is where the most important efforts and measures need to be directed in terms of the Agency's resources. It has been a work that has taken some time. Changing from doing audits at the municipal office, which may not be the area that is most dangerous from a work environment perspective, to focusing on those industries where there are concerns and problems is not a work that you do with a pen stroke, but it is something that you need to make sure to constantly pay attention, remind and ask questions about in order to keep the working method alive. In this report, there is also some response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review. One of the things that the Swedish National Audit Office highlights is criticism that there is no system for what you do with tips coming in. If there is someone who feels that there are concerns in the workplace and reports this, there is no system for how to handle it. Focusing on risk industries but also ensuring that a system that captures such signals must be a priority area, I can say from my point of view. It would be nice to hear how the government views this. How should you work? Are we going back to the old way, where only controls were in place, or do we want to apply the working method that is about strengthening the ability and knowledge of the companies to do good work environment work? The third area that I would like to highlight is linked to sick leave and ill-health rates. In the statistics on deaths there is usually an overweight for men or perhaps even a total domination of men. On the other hand, in the case of sick leave and ill-health rates, the majority are women, very often working with other people. You feel an inadequacy and have too little ability or ability to control your working life and the conditions for doing a good job. This is an area that touches on the responsibility of the Social Security Committee. But this is precisely the point of getting into an early stage and seeing what we need to do in order to keep up with work, I think it is extremely important, linked to the fact that today we have a more borderless working life in terms of what is expected of us and when it is expected of us. We also have new technologies that make the demarcation even more difficult. I know there is work going on on these issues. It would be interesting to hear about this from Magnus Manhammar, whom I believe will be the representative of the Social Democrats later in the debate.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-341	Madam President, I would like We are debating the report on the working environment and working time today. I would first like to say a few words on a subject raised in the review report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which is dealt with in this report, and to a large extent concerns the inspection activities of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is a sad fact that the former right-wing government, based on an ideologically motivated downgrading of both occupational safety and concrete knowledge of working conditions, went very hard on the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The appropriations were cut sharply. As a result, inspections in particular suffered. It was often heard from representatives of the previous government – we also heard it from the Centre Party representative – that this would be a new way of working and that the cuts would be weighed up by other actions, such as information, web-based tools and so on. There are some laudable things there that have been involved in development work, but there have always been clear signals, not least from trade unions, that inspections cannot be completely replaced in this way or by working in a different way. This is something that I also think emerges when you look at how the Swedish National Audit Office reports statistics and also the results of the survey that was sent out to all health and safety inspectors. Although the Swedish National Audit Office's own conclusions would not be as clear, I believe that the actual basis should be a clear signal to both the Ministry of Labour and the Swedish Work Environment Authority's management that the inspection activities are invaluable and should gradually be rebuilt after the bourgeois cutback years. This is also something that has been given better conditions in recent years. Through the budget cooperation between the Government and the Left Party, much more money has been added to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, and there is a clear intention that it will lead to more inspectors and more inspections. I am proud and happy to have contributed to this. We will, of course, follow that trend. Otherwise, this report deals with a lot of exercise demands on the working environment and working time. I do not have time to touch on all the Left Party proposals. There are many of them, and they are described in detail in the exercise. But I'm going to talk a little bit about some of them. For the sake of form, I can also say that I am in favour of all of our reservations, but only for time-winning claims that reservation 9 be accepted. Madam President, I would like The economic crisis in the 1990s led to substantial cuts in the public sector. The staff density of welfare services has never really recovered in many places since that time. The bourgeois tax reduction policy during Reinfeldt years also stripped away large resources that could have gone to more employees in the services that people need more, not less of, in our society. This development has gone hand in hand with consulting hysteria and attempts to steer with the market-inspired models that have been called among other things a new public management. The combination of this has led to quite serious structural problems affecting employees. As part of the agreement reached after the election between the Left Party and the government parties, work has been started around, for example, the governance models in the public sector. The so-called Trust Delegation is an important addition that can at best contribute to better working environment, more space for professional knowledge in welfare activities and less of unnecessary control and reporting. Of course, it is not possible to get away from the question of staffing. Pressed work schedules mean increased stress, which in turn can lead to mental problems, musculoskeletal injuries, falls and that you do not have time to do your job when you also have direct and daily responsibility for vulnerable people and their well and woe. It's documented exhausting. The EUR 10 billion with which local government finances were strengthened through budget cooperation are important and positive in this context. But it is clear that more will be needed. We believe that it would be an important part of establishing a progressive social agenda to set up an investigation that looks at the consequences of reduced staffing density – in terms of employees' working environment – in publicly funded welfare activities and in service agencies. It is one of the proposals we have made in our motions. Speaking of sick leave, I'd like to talk about occupational health care. Today, just over 60% of workers have access to occupational health care in the workplace. This is a figure that has fallen and is comparable to the end of the 1980s, when almost 90 per cent were covered by occupational health care. It is also interesting that there is a rather classic class and gender pattern here. The members of LO associations, especially women in smaller workplaces in sectors with many precarious jobs, many part-time jobs and a lot of work on inconvenient working hours, are among the groups with the worst access to occupational health care. This is a pity, because occupational health care can and should play a role in systematic work environment management in accordance with the provisions of the Work Environment Act. The Left Party wants to ensure that all workers can have access to quality-assured occupational health care with industry knowledge that works with strategic preventive work environment management. We believe that this is a matter of justice. It is also a question of giving more people a prerequisite to work up to 65 years or longer and not just theoretically have that opportunity. It could be a piece of the puzzle in a progressive agenda for social development and for good work. For this reason, we from the Left Party have proposed a broad study with the task of working closely with the social partners to develop proposals on how to create and cover the whole labour market in a regulatory, effective and quality-assured occupational health care system. Madam President, I would like An increasing number of employers have set up a system to re-organise former full-time jobs into part-time jobs. We have discussed labour law in this House in the past. I raised, on the Left side, the question of so-called planing and the need to tighten up the LAS so that the rules of dismissal cannot be circumvented by reducing working hours. There is also a complementary approach to the wider problem of employers with too low basic staffing that offers part-time staff to work more than the contract, so-called more time. An offer of such extra-time work is often conditional on the employee being loyal, docile and uncritical. That's when it can get the extra hours and not otherwise. If people are in great need of it, this means that the employer's flexibility arises at the expense of the workers. It's a big worry for a lot of people. Norwegian working time legislation has been in place since 2013 to improve conditions for part-time workers. It means that part-time workers who have worked more time are given the right to expand their employment. The actual working hours are calculated once a year. If it is higher than the part-time contract, part-time work may be expanded to a level corresponding to actual working time. It provides greater security and an incentive for employers to plan their activities better and more reasonably. We want a change in the same spirit in Sweden with a regulation that allows those who have continuously worked more than their agreed employment to be entitled to an employment rate corresponding to actual working time. Madam President, I would like Now I have talked about investigations and adjustments. These are important things. But it is clear that issues of work environment and working time are basically very fundamental issues of power. These are questions that affect what kind of society we have and, when it comes to working time, not least how we use the fruits of productivity improvements in society as a whole. The struggle of the labour movement for a shorter working day began already in the late 1800s when there was a demand for eight hours of work, eight hours of leisure and eight hours of rest. During the 20th century, statutory weekly working time has been gradually reduced to 40 hours. It was preceded by a collective agreement on the reduction of working time in large parts of the labour market. Since 1973, the normal working week of 40 hours has remained unchanged for most of the labour market despite the fact that we have seen a huge increase in profits and productivity in business. This means that there is clearly room for discussion of working time for broad groups in the labour market. When you talk about the problems with real opportunities to work high up in the ages and work as many hours as you would like, we have been told from the right that it is not about organization and distribution, but about life puzzles. Should we have a social development where more people have real opportunities to develop, live enriching lives, a sustainable labour market where people are able to work to retirement age without being worn out prematurely and better conditions for living on an equal footing, a general reduction in working time is something that needs to get higher up on the agenda. Productivity in Sweden has doubled since the 1970s. At the same time, the share of wages in total output has fallen. There is, of course, the financial scope for reducing working time. There is always an interaction between the organisation of working life, the definition of requirements in collective agreements and law. But basically it is a matter of crucial choices for our society. It is about how we organize the economy and what values will guide us into the future. Most people would agree that we work to live good and not live to work at all costs. Yet it is very rarely or never reflected in the public debate. I believe that a social debate on working time is important, and it is important that it has a good and diverse factual basis. A variety of such bases are now created by interesting experiments in different parts of the country, often initiated by the Left Party in red-green collaborations. But we also need national processes. A first parliamentary step would be to set up a wide-ranging investigation in which the question is turned and turned from a number of aspects. It is also one of the Left Party's proposals in the report.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-365	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 1. The aim of the work environment work is to prevent ill health and accidents and to prevent people from being excluded from work. In many jobs, stress is responsible for the increased number of sick leave. Many are constantly connected to the job, and there will be no chance of recovery. Instead, it is often heavy lifting but also stress and difficult work sessions that are the cause of sick leave. Often, healthcare staff also have to deal with a large administrative burden with documentation of various kinds and where more IT solutions are needed to facilitate their work. We Christian Democrats believe that the government should initiate a mapping and national action plan to address the administrative burden of health professionals and their impact on the working environment. Madam President, I would like Many companies work well with the systematic work environment work required by the law by carrying out annual monitoring of the work environment and, in fact, also remedying the shortcomings that exist. They collaborate with the parties at the workplace, safety representatives but also outside actors in rehabilitation matters such as Försäkringskassan and occupational health care. The government parties do, and have often also had, as an election promise, millions of investments at the Swedish Work Environment Authority in order to increase inspections at workplaces. With their investments in millions of SEK, they increase the proportion of visits from 3.4 per cent to 3.5 per cent of all workplaces. This shows that we can hardly allocate resources that reach all workplaces. Then the government should understand that these millions could perhaps be deployed more effectively. We from the Christian Democrats have a great proposal. We believe that interactive instruments need to be developed. We propose, in one of our reservations, that the conditions for introducing a system of health and safety declarations be examined, in which employers and employees together work out what they should look like. As with tax returns, they must be submitted. I think we need to think about a bit more modern ways of working to review work environment work and to get everyone on the track. Madam President, I would like Preventing fatal accidents at work is, of course, a priority. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has an important role to play in impacting workplaces and working preventively. People dying at work is never acceptable. Of course, we shall continue to have a clear zero vision of fatal accidents at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority must have the resources to come and do checks. In terms of the number of fatal accidents at work, it has decreased dramatically in recent decades. But we see that it increases as construction and infrastructure efforts increase. There is now a risk of increasing in the construction sector. The increased use of foreign subcontractors is a natural part of freedom of movement within the EU. However, this must not mean that accidents happen to this group of people because of a lack of information. The person responsible for the work environment must ensure that information is provided in languages that everyone at the construction site understands. Now we see worrying signs of an increasing number of sick leave. We remember that during the previous Social Democratic Government 140 people were retired every day in Sweden. It was the exclusion of people that we cannot afford to go back to. We now see again with the Social Democrats at the helm that all curves point in the wrong direction and that sick leave increases dramatically. A broad approach is now needed to address the negative developments. Between 2015 and 2016, women's health and absenteeism have increased by 1 day while men's has increased by 0.4 days. There are many different reasons why women are more affected than men by occupational injuries. Since the 1980s, women have had higher absenteeism than men, and differences continue to increase. Occupations with an increased risk of sick leave appear in schools, health care and care – areas in which women are dominant. We Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should develop tools for employers in order to identify how women and men are to varying degrees exposed in the workplace to risk factors leading to sick leave. Madam President, I would like I sat and looked at Mrs. Speaker's chair – how the President sits. To be honest, it doesn't look like it's adapted to women. This is a typical such thing. What are the tools we have in working life? Are they suitable for both women and men? I don't know what you think, but I think it looks like you have to have a certain height or height to fit in the chair, and it's a man height. This is not how we can do it, Madam President. We must ensure that risk factors are taken into account in workplaces from the different perspectives of women and men. Madam President, I would like Another issue is the duplication of work that many women still take on. It is about the main responsibility for home and family while women are working. This may lead to an increased risk of sick leave. Försäkringskassan calls for further studies to verify and deepen knowledge. They call for a working life that is capable of taking account of the special conditions attached to parenthood. The Christian Democrats share this analysis, and we want to see more research into the conditions of modern working life and how it affects the ability to combine work and family life. During the time of the Alliance, efforts were made at the Swedish Work Environment Authority to help improve women's working environment. These include, for example, the mission of the Alliance to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to carry out knowledge and information efforts to promote gender equality and combat threats and violence in working life. We believe that research on women's health should be given specific funding and that it should continue to support research into women's ill health. Madam President, I would like Threats and violence are something that is extremely important to prevent in the workplace. Women are much more exposed to threats and violence at work than men do. During the time of the Alliance, the Swedish Work Environment Authority received special funds to work preventively in this area. This work too should be continued by the government. Bullying and harassment in the workplace must be taken seriously. No one should feel uncomfortable going to work. The employer has a clear responsibility in health and safety legislation and must prevent such situations. Such negative tendencies harm not only the individual but the entire workplace. Madam President, I would like Finally, the government parties are putting their hopes in a work environment strategy for a modern working life that has been developed. But today's working life requires more flexibility and more of the workers than before. Tasks are changing at an accelerated pace, and social skills are a component that is increasingly needed in working life. It also requires that work environment work at workplaces be adapted to new requirements and challenges. The government should review age-old labour law in order to acknowledge the need for a more flexible working life. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-382	Madam President, I would like The Government has, among other things, increased the Swedish Work Environment Authority's administrative grant by SEK 25 million per year from 2017. The aim is for the Agency to be able to employ more health and safety inspectors, which is of course crucial for the work environment and inspection in the country. Government policy will contribute to a working environment that prevents ill health, accidents and unhealthy competition. In order to achieve these goals, the Government has previously presented a new strategy for the health and safety at work, dealing with modern working life and a zero vision for fatal accidents, and has proposed a substantial increase in resources in the field of health and safety at work. There has already been a reinforcement from the beginning, with the first budget we got through, of 100 million annually. It's still stuck. It is therefore very new money for work environment work. It is about research, stress-related research, women's health and occupational health care. But not least, it is about money for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The Swedish model, as well as the work for a better working environment, is based on a division of responsibilities between the state and the social partners. To deepen the cooperation that exists between the three sides of the labour market, the government has set up a forum for dialogue on health and safety at work. I think it is particularly good that the government has also looked at the possibility of starting a new national centre for health and safety at work, not least for research questions about the working environment. It is on its way with an investigation that has been carried out. There is simply a lot of good happening in the area of health and safety at work. I think we will have the opportunity to talk more about this, and I have a long time to do so. I am proud of what is being done, and many positive steps are being taken in the right direction. Now that we have the opportunity to talk about the area of health and safety at work, it is important to take a historical look back to see what it has been like for the past ten years – from 2007 until today. It is about differences and similarities and other things that have happened. I find it interesting that the alliance government 2007 – 2014 instead of laying the foundations for a good working environment and for reduced sick leave laid the ground for increased sick leave and a seriously impaired working environment and a deterioration in work environment in general. You can think about how and why they did it. The question of why I hope that the bourgeois parties will answer here today. It is important to know this. The bourgeois parties hope to win back power in Sweden, and then it is important that we know what kind of work environment policy we get then. The proposals they have now, for example in the latest Moderate Budget Movement that I have with me here in the speaker's chair, mention the working environment in twelve lines. And then it's all about the importance of women's work environment. It is not very complicated or very thorough proposals, if you say so, but the health and safety issues are something that the Moderates hardly feel. Let us go back to 2007, as I started to tell you that I think we should do when we look at health and safety at work, and see what happened then. What happened was that the Swedish Work Environment Authority received significantly reduced funding from the government. Substantial reduction in appropriations means, for example, what we can read here in the draft budget that went through in 2007. In 2006, the Swedish Work Environment Authority had 660 million. Above all, there was 300 million for inspectors in the country. From this, the work received directly reduced resources by first 40 million and for a few years from 660 million to 544 million. So there were quite a few millions, about 120 million, that they withdrew. 120 million means a lot of inspectors. Those of you who have a closer knowledge of the Swedish Work Environment Authority know that they had to close a large part of the activities that existed in the country, not least the regional offices. It was about the work done in the country, which was really about workplace inspections. Other things also happened in 2007. It was not only about the government attacking the work environment directly through reductions for the Swedish Work Environment Agency, but it was also attacked by removing the Swedish Work Life Institute. It was a world-leading research institute, which was indeed a world leader in knowledge about stress management and physical injuries in working life. It was a pride for Sweden. This was put down in cold blood by the government without any argument. The tax was also reduced by 140 billion. I'm sure you remember that it was done in stages with the job tax deductions. I am showing here a graph of deciles in the Swedish population, i.e. the Swedish population divided into tenths. You can see here the poorest tenth and the richest tenth. The graph shows by how many percent income increased or decreased based on the changes of Moderates in the first few years. It can be seen that the poorest tenth of the Swedish population lost a lot of money from this, while the rest, and especially those who were rich, gained a lot from this. The tax cuts redistributed money from the poor to the rich, from people who were already struggling, perhaps not least with a poor working environment, to those who were better off. But the tax cuts of 140 billion also meant that municipalities and county councils did not get the resources they needed at all. I myself have many friends who worked in municipalities and county councils and who hoped that they would have a new colleague, maybe could go down in working time or maybe avoid the shared tour but who instead got fewer colleagues, poorer working conditions and less money at work. This in itself meant a deterioration of the working environment for millions of people in Sweden. There was an incredible reduction in the public sector by reducing taxes and, above all, by making tax cuts go to those in our society who already had a lot of money. I think it is important that we do not forget it, because it is a crucial part of the social development we are seeing right now where more and more people are on sick leave and where we talk about and are stressed, both government and many other parties here in Parliament, about the development of sick leave and how many people are on their knees. This is, among other things, because of the 140 billion in tax cuts that the bourgeois government accounted for. It's important to remember. I would have liked to hear from the bourgeois parties who are also here in the debate today why the appropriations for the Swedish Work Environment Authority were reduced so sharply and why the Swedish Work Life Institute was also closed down. I have never received an answer to that, and I would be happy to have an answer to that today. Why did ALI, as it is abbreviated, that is, the Work Life Institute, be closed down? Did they think that Sweden was too good at working environment work and that we would therefore get worse? Did they think that the Swedish Work Environment Authority had too much resources, and is that why they took away 140 million? I would like an answer to that from the bourgeois parties. Madam President, I would like Not only do the Moderates suffer from deterioration in the working environment, but now the Moderates have also decided to open up to racism. As an employer in Sweden, the Work Environment Act obliges you to act so that offensive behaviour does not continue. According to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on systematic work environment work AFS 2001:1 and also the regulation on organizational and social work environment, 2015:4, the employer is also responsible for preventing offensive discrimination. A large trade union here in Sweden, the Union, has even made a checklist for an inclusive working environment. It is an anti-racist checklist, one can say, which is the opposite of what the Swedish Democrats want, i.e. an exclusive society and an exclusive working environment. I think a little bit about how the Moderates reason when to start working with the Swedish Democrats. On 23 February this year Anna Kinberg Batra was interviewed on the TV programme Malou after ten. She was then asked whether the Swedish Democrats are a racist party. The question from Malou was this: You still think, as you have said before, that it is a racist party? Then Anna Kinberg Batra answers: In this way, they are, with their representatives, with what they are doing and the policy they stand for. Madam President, I would like Racism is also present at workplaces. There, the Swedish Work Environment Authority calls it offensive discrimination. Here in Parliament we have a party whose whole business concept is racism. Much like a fisherman selling fish, the Swedish Democrats sell racism. These representatives of racism have begun to negotiate with the Moderates. Cooperation has been initiated, and the Moderates have even announced that they can consider governing Sweden with the support of the Swedish Democrats. The negotiating position that the Moderates have given the Swedish Democrats, with the annual budget or something else and the desire to try to run Sweden with the support of the Swedish Democrats, is extremely strong. The Swedish Democrats will be able to put in principle what demands they want only for the Moderates to get through their budget. I am very frightened by it and what it can mean for the living conditions of the people who live in Sweden and for the working conditions and regulations of the Swedish Work Environment Agency, which are about preventing offensive treatment, not least racism, in the workplace. I would like to ask Moderate Erik Andersson how it is that the Moderates have now become the collaborators of racism. Is power more important than anything else? Are there no fundamental values for which the Moderates stand up? Madam President, I would like These are crucial questions for Sweden's future. I assume the Moderates will respond to them.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-404	I would remind Members that the subject is the working environment and working time.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-405	Madam President, I would like Magnus Manhammar wanted a change of line, so I'm buying it today. There were many questions about the Alliance here and about the resources that changed. I sat in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's Transparency Council during this period. The Director General worked very hard to improve inspections, and there were more inspections per inspector. Efficiency was increased and operations improved continuously. So it is not the case that the more you are, the better the inspections will be. We also discuss the Swedish National Audit Office's report on state interventions in the field of health and safety at work, and the report on p. 7 states that the Government's intention has become clearer, but that at the same time there is a risk of displacement of the Swedish Work Environment Authority's development work. In the strategy on health and safety at work (p. 2015/ 16:80) which the Government decided during 2016 is directed to many assignments to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Despite good intentions, the large amount of detailed assignments risk taking resources from the necessary development work at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. How does Magnus Manhammar see that there have been so many different projects and assignments that they cannot do their basic work within the Swedish Work Environment Authority?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions and the line, Désirée Pethrus! It is always clear to be able to talk further about these issues which are extremely important. Like you, I have read the Swedish National Audit Office's report on this and I think it is very interesting and important. This is one reason why we are saying that we do not want more assignments from the government right now, and we have also taken a stand and said that we should not do so. These are the missions we have given that exist, and they are the ones to be pursued. There will be no more at the moment on our part. It is the work environment strategy that applies during this term of office that we work with – modern working life and a zero vision against fatal accidents – but we also want to work to get a new national centre for health and safety at work. We have set aside an extra 100 million per year, of which a large part is for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We have also set aside an extra 25 million from this year on these issues in addition to that. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has been able to employ quite a few more inspectors, but the Swedish Work Environment Authority has also had to change a lot in its operations. As has been described earlier and as I also described, the Swedish Work Environment Authority really had to shrink its costume and reduce its operations after 2007 and onwards when you got reduced funding. What has happened since then is that now that you have increased resources you really think about what to prioritize and what to spend the money on. It will be a process before the Swedish Work Environment Authority has really come up to its full capacity, because you simply have to switch up again. It's kind of like a person who has starved can't start eating as much as he can, but can eat one piece at a time. This is exactly how the Swedish Work Environment Authority will work to expand its operations right now. I have confidence in the Swedish Work Environment Authority and see that it is a very good work that is beginning to develop more and more there.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-415	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Magnus Manhammar! I believe that the Social Democrats still believe that if they give 100 or 200 million more, it will be a hundred times better. It is very difficult to measure exactly what each million should be able to give. It must then be very specific to development work. This is what the Swedish National Audit Office's report says – you don't have time for that. I had a question raised that I have pushed that one should look at the issue of health and safety declarations. I think we need to think differently and not just have the old inspection thinking if we are to reach more jobs. I would like to hear if Magnus Manhammar has any comments on that. The Swedish National Audit Office writes that visits to the workplaces are the most resource-intensive. Since they received the 100 million, more time has been spent just recruiting and training, so it has certainly not had any more impact on the money – at least not so far. New working methods are one thing. Another point raised by the Swedish National Audit Office is this with tips and notifications that come to the agency, which you also don't really have routines for or can work with. Maybe you don't have time to work on it; I don't know. How does Magnus Manhammar view this? In the tips and notification activities you have concrete cases – you do not go out and visit a workplace in general, but you have got a concrete tip about a work environment situation that is very bad. How does Magnus Manhammar view this development at the Swedish Work Environment Authority?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-419	Madam President, I would like Good and very important questions! D here with health and safety declarations is an exciting proposal. I myself have been thinking a lot about similar things. It is not at all foolish to think about such proposals in order to get companies to work on this continuously and get all companies to work on it. What I myself have sketched out can be called work environment audit. Just as the budget is revised every year, it should be important to carry out a health and safety audit every year, where you simply do an audit of the business based on having work environment work, and also look at the health of those who work at the company. Perhaps there is something similar about declarations. It sounds similar. So it is not a bad proposal at all, and I think we can look at it further. Maybe we can even do it together. It's always better if we can work together. But for me, one thing doesn't take the other out. We spend a lot of new resources on the Swedish Work Environment Authority but also on research on work environment issues. We believe that this is a good proposal, and it does not have to be opposed to having, for example, health and safety declarations or anything else. You could do both. Désirée Pethrus also asked a question about tips and routines for tips. It is also a question that the government has contact with the Swedish Work Environment Authority that you should work with more. I have mentioned it several times; I think it is incredibly important. I know that, among other things, we have looked at Norway, which is doing very well in this work. There is a good web service where it is possible to come in with tips. It is even possible to take a picture of something that has happened so that it comes to the health and safety inspectors. What I have heard from the Swedish Work Environment Authority, not least from the regional offices, is that at present there is no time. The inspectors you're dealing with are busy with the work you're doing right now. I think we could use some of the increased resources we have made available for this particular work. It is a great thing that Mrs Pethrus should bring it up, Madam President, and I look forward to continuing to work on it.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-427	Madam President, I would like I tried to ask for a reply during Magnus Magnus's speech. I was not allowed to speak because I had not spoken, but I can start by saying this: Magnus Manhammar made a very pompous appearance in this House. I haven't heard that much gibberish in a long time. I have to say that, Madam President, on account of the fact that the Member of Parliament, Magnus Manhammar, said earlier that so many people talk about what the Social Democrats think. But all he did in his speech was talk about what everyone else thinks. I think that's completely wrong. I will tell you what we think about the working environment, Madam President, and I shall stick to the subject. I think everything else would be completely wrong. Madam President, I would like It is an important subject that is concerned. One in five employed persons in Sweden had in 2016 some kind of inconvenience caused by the work. Ten per cent of employed persons had physical, that is, physical, problems. About 7 percent had only psychosocial problems, and about 5 percent had both physical and psychosocial problems. Basically, it is a huge waste of resources with people's lives and energy, as it can be prevented if you work systematically and long-term with the working environment. Nowadays, it is usually more and more about problems that arise as a result of stress. Unfortunately, Madam President, women are the worst in the world of work. These are our bearers of society: women who work at the core of welfare, usually under a public employer as a state, municipality or county council. More than one in four women suffers as a result of the work compared to one in five men. In the period 1998 – 2014, the proportion of women who had physical problems due to their work was higher than today. Today, the dominant cause is psychosocial. Working life is changing, and we can see that the psychosocial environment is becoming increasingly important. Special efforts must be made there. This is largely about better leadership in the organisations. As far as the number of deaths due to work is concerned, it has remained at a reasonably steady level in recent years, but each death is, of course, a tragedy for family, relatives and co-workers. There are various causes of death at work. Some can be prevented and worked away, but others are, unfortunately, pure accidents that are difficult to predict. Regardless of this, it is unacceptable for a person to have to die because of his civilian work. That is totally unacceptable. The Moderates are pleased that the government continues the work that the Alliance began in formulating strategies that give the work environment a longer-term focus. However, there is no initiative to simplify in order to make it easy to do the right thing. This is particularly true for smaller companies. The Swedish labour market consists largely of smaller companies, which for natural reasons do not have as much time and resources to absorb the knowledge available in the field or the latest research. The Social Democratic and Environmental Party government likes to assume in its imagination that Sweden is still built by large industries, only public employers in the welfare, farming and cooperative employers. But in the statistics we can read that only 0.1 percent of all companies have more than 250 employees. The government has missed that the labour market does not look like it did fifty or just five years ago. We are now living in a world where information technology is changing the roles of employers and workers. We have self-employment and platform economy. Work and leisure run together. We probably cannot even imagine the future labour market, which may be largely based on the gig economy rather than on life-long permanent contracts. It is therefore particularly important that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's information role is developed and improved. There are also insufficient proposals in the Government's efforts to address mental illness. Since 2014, the most common reason for sick leave is psychiatric diseases. This is confirmed not least in the report from Försäkringskassan the other day, which shows that people with mental illness have the longest sick leave. Depression and anxiety disorder are the most common diagnoses for a person affected by mental illness. In that case, long - term home sick leave is not always the best way to return to work, but some activity produces results. There, the workplace must be involved.90 days before an examination is made with the employer if there are other tasks that can be carried out is far too long to wait, Madam President. The Moderates therefore propose the introduction of a special rehabilitation chain for easier mental diagnoses. This creates better conditions for rehabilitation and return to work. The best thing, Madam President, is, of course, not to end up in a situation that requires sick leave. The best thing is that employers work preventively with good leadership and balance between requirements and control in the work of the employee. But for those who end up on sick leave, it should be faster than today to get a trial, we consider moderates. Therefore, for those who do not have a special rehabilitation plan, the examination of work capacity against other tasks should take place on day 45 instead of today after 90 days and a trial against the whole labour market on day 90 instead of today after 180 days. We are talking about six months, Madam President, and it is a very long time to wait for a test against the whole labour market. There is a risk that it will prolong the period of sick leave. We want to set up a special transition track at Arbetsförmedlingen to offer support for changing jobs or employers. The Moderates therefore invest 100 million more in Försäkringskassan and 100 million more in Arbetsförmedlingen for the establishment of the improved rehabilitation chain. Furthermore, we moderates want to tighten supervision and impose requirements and sanctions on employers with high absenteeism. The employer has a key role to play in reducing sick leave. Unfortunately, we can see that the shortcomings in the psychosocial working environment exist in occupational groups mainly in publicly funded activities. It is about nurses, midwives, specialist nurses – health and care professionals who belong to particularly vulnerable groups. Employers are often municipalities and county councils. Therefore, the Moderates propose SEK 100 million more to the Swedish Work Environment Authority for supervision of the social work environment within occupational groups of employers with particularly high sick leave. In addition, we naturally want the Swedish Work Environment Authority to be given a special task to increase information to employers about preventive measures against mental illness. Women's work-related health is a major challenge to gender equality, Madam President. Since the 1980s, women have had higher absenteeism than men. We Moderates want to give the Swedish Work Environment Authority additional resources to continue improving women's working environment. We earmark SEK 15 million for that purpose. Basically, this is about an equal labour market. The feminist government seems to fail in this important issue of equal value for all, regardless of gender. As regards the letter from the Swedish National Audit Office, we agree with the comments that have been made. Despite good ambitions, the amount of detailed assignments from the Government risks taking resources from the necessary development work at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We particularly share that view. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have many good suggestions for improving the work environment in the country's workplaces. In particular, we invest an extra amount of resources to improve women's working environment. The Moderates' proposals for a better working environment are not dealt with in this report, because they are expenditure-driven. We have proposals that produce results, and they are dealt with under headings 13 and 14, that is, in other reports than this. That is why we do not have the opportunity to advocate or reserve our position. On the other hand, we have a specific opinion describing this particular phenomenon, which we naturally support. Madam President, I would like I'll finish there, because I saw that there were some questions.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-452	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the report to be approved, which I did not do before. I'll do it now so I won't forget it. Erik Andersson from the Moderates called my previous speech gibberish and said that he was very upset. It is a bit unfortunate to call it gibberish, I think, but it is still good that we show political differences here in Parliament. That is why we are here – we are from different political parties and have different opinions. I spend almost all my working time here reading about what the Swedish Work Environment Authority does, but also about work environment initiatives in general and not least about the research being carried out at the moment. But I have also spent some time reading the proposals of the other parties, not least the Moderates. I have here the latest draft budget of the Moderates from 2016, which would have been in force this year if they had won the budget vote last autumn. It mentions health and safety issues with twelve lines. The major investment made by the Moderates is SEK 15 million. It's great that you make some bet, but I might think it's pretty silly and above all a little strange that you hit your chest for the big bets you make. What is obviously the muscles and the stakes in this budgetary exercise are not really any specific initiatives on health and safety at work. The most important investment for women's work environment, if that's what the Moderates want to invest in, is the 10 billions of welfare that we have set aside, which above all ensures that you get a colleague and avoid the stress and pressure at work. With regard to the second question I raised, I think it is important to get answers from the Moderates. If the Moderates are to push Sweden together with the Swedish Democrats, as they intend to do, many xenophobic views will emerge, and it will also affect both politics and people's working environment. What concessions will you make to the Swedish Democrats?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-458	Madam President, I would like The word gibberish meant that you, Magnus Manhammar, talked about anything but the core issue: work environment. That is what we are discussing here today, nothing more. It is not about budget negotiations with other parties or any other issue that Magnus Manhammar would like to discuss here and now. We will have to discuss them in another debate. But what I saw during the speech was a very satisfied social democracy. They are so pleased, Madam President, that I do not know where to go. In the past, the Social Democracy was proud but not satisfied, but now it really is the opposite. You are pleased but not proud of what you are doing, because the country is simply going the wrong way. You look at the Moderate budget and mention lines here and there, but you should read the numbers instead. I can tell you, Magnus Manhammar, that we invest more money in the Swedish Work Environment Agency than the Social Democrats do in their budget. You can always discuss what has been done in the past, but the fact is that we are investing more. You cannot say that you invest as much as we do at the Swedish Work Environment Agency. Why don't you? Our efforts focus on women's work environment at public employers, because that is where we see the major future causes of sick leave. Many of Magnus Magnus's friends are surely the employers of these women. How is it that the state, municipality and county councils are much worse employers than private employers? Can Magnus Manhammar answer that?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-462	Madam President, I would like It is great that we are discussing this. I've read the Moderates' budget bill, and I've also read so much. I said there was an extra 15 million you put in it, so it's not something I don't know about. You normally start from the budget that is presented, and then you can add a little, just as you have done in this case. What I myself am concerned about is the result we have seen when the Moderates have taken over power in this country. Then it was slaughtered by the Swedish Work Environment Agency. There was closure of ALI and major reductions in municipalities and county councils. That's why I'm talking about history. We need to know what happens if the Moderates win and their policies become reality. That's what's crucial. I am also very concerned about the social development that happens when you start normalizing racism. Behind my back in this House we see two Swedish democrats sitting very pleased in this debate, when I attack you because you want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats and even rule with their support. In other countries where this has happened, the working environment, school, research and environmental work – everything – has been influenced by the racist party. Look at Denmark, which many countries began to talk about almost as an apartheid state after the ten years when the bourgeois party ruled together with the Danish People's Party. To begin normalizing the Swedish Democrats and even cooperate with a party like your own party leader, I read earlier, denotes as racist having consequences for the work environment and for all our lives. It's not something you can joke about. It is perhaps the most serious thing that has happened in this House this year – that you have decided to cooperate with racism and have become the collaborators of racism. As I read earlier, the Swedish Work Environment Authority is engaged in work against offensive discrimination. There is already racism in society. How racist will society become if the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats rule Sweden together? I'm afraid so.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-468	Madam President, I would like Where to start? The party that first used the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament was the Social Democrats during the alliance years. With the help of the Swedish Democrats, you ensured that 100 000 employees received increased tax, Magnus Manhammar. You're a racist for that? No, I don't think so. If the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals or other parties vote for a proposal from the Moderates, does that make me a worse person? No, I don't think so either. I know that the Left Party has certainly voted for the Moderates sometime before, but I do not feel like a worse person for it. Democracy respects everyone equally. All parties here are elected to the Swedish Parliament. We are not cooperating with the Left, because it is harmful to the country, and we would not be working on the budget with the Swedish Democrats either. But speaking to everyone is common good tone and common manners. That you didn't learn it at school once! Let us look at the results. What has happened in Sweden when it comes to the reductions at the Swedish Work Environment Authority? The number of accidents at work, sick leave and occupational diseases per 1 000 inhabitants has decreased since 2006. They increased slightly in 2009, but since then there has been a sharp increase in 2014. The fact that money was removed because they wanted to improve the efficiency of the Swedish Work Environment Authority has not produced any significant results on the health of those who work. The statistics show a decrease. In the past, inspectors carried out more supervisory tasks than they did today. Inspectors became more efficient. But since 2009, the Alliance Government has increased the funds for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, and now we are adding more than the Social Democrats.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-473	Madam President, I would like I was a little surprised before I got up here. We got a new definition of what is common manners. Apparently, it requires the launch of various forms of budgetary cooperation with racists. Erik Andersson and I have some different definitions of what is common manners, I think. My thoughts were about what Erik Andersson said about stress and women's labour market. I would like to know how Erik Andersson intends to reduce stress if the public sector receives less resources. How can this process happen? Erik Andersson then talked about that this is only a problem in the state and the municipality. How does it work in the private businesses, where you have a lower staffing? How can you get more colleagues, which reduces stress, if the manning is less? It is a difficult equation to get together, but apparently it is possible for Erik Andersson. It would be interesting to hear how this is done. Then Erik Andersson had a rather curious discussion about this with mental illness, depression and so on. Based on what the Moderates propose otherwise and what I heard Erik Andersson say earlier, one of the main ways to reduce depression seems to be out-of-insurance. So you should supplement your depression by standing in the line of unemployment. Is it correct to understand that this is an important part of moderate politics?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-477	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the question. Now I have not said anything about budgetary cooperation with the Swedish Democrats, I would like to point out. Right should be right. But it may not really come from the right side when Ali Esbati comes and tells me how other parties should be defined when he himself belongs to a party that has communist roots. We ourselves know how the VPK and the Communist Party in the Swedish Parliament have voted before. It is not a funny reading, I have to say, if they now accuse us of cooperating with the Swedish Democrats. The most important part of the labour market is leadership, as I see it. It is one of the most important foundations for employees to feel healthy at work. We have also seen in various studies that leadership is by far the most important thing. When you look at women's stress, it also turns out that the organisations that are politically governed have more sick leave than private employers. Then one might wonder, ‘ Why is that the case? I think it has a lot to do with co-determination over its own work situation. I believe that private companies are much better at this with employees' participation than public employers are. Basically, this is not surprising. If you are allowed to influence your work and have an influence, you also feel less stress and less powerlessness. In particular, we also want to look at measures to sanction employers who have high health rates. It is about seeing what can be done to improve that situation.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-481	Madam President, I would like I will not go into the question of whether it is funny reading to see how the VPK has voted. I think that it is fun reading in many ways, if you look at how our party has worked to broaden democratic rights on all points in Sweden, not least when it comes to labour law issues. But I wouldn't argue for that reason that it's part of common manners that the Moderates should cooperate with us for that. You have to take a political position on that. The Moderates obviously prefer to begin a rapprochement with the racist party whose representatives are behind us. It'll have to stand for the Moderates. I was asked how it might be that there are high sick leave in the politically managed activities. I have tried to explain this very long and detailed in my speech. Working with people and having a great responsibility for people's well-being and not receiving sufficient resources will create a great burden, and many of those who work in this situation are women. There is lower staff density in privately managed but publicly funded activities. Then, of course, the pressure will be extra harsh. However, many in these activities are replaced, and others will have to pay for the sick leave that comes. If you replace staff on an assembly line, it is still a major social problem, but it may not be seen in the same way in the workplace. Unfortunately, some of the worst workplaces are the private service companies. There you cannot talk about having a great influence over your work. Of course, we should have this to a great extent, and in order to have it, we need stronger trade union rights.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-484	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I fully understood your question, Ali Esbati, but if you look at what stands out in the labour market, you can see that women's sick leave is beginning to increase, and it is the psychosocial working environment that has become increasingly important. Psychiatric disorders are the most common reason for sick leave. We must do something about this. Here, too, the Moderates have suggestions. We want to shorten the time once you get into sick leave, and it should be tested whether you can do something else on your job or be tested against the whole labour market, because we believe – and it also shows surveys – that it is better if you have a good contact between the employer and the person who is on sick leave to see if you can solve the problem, so that the person can get back to work. That's the most important thing. But we don't want you to end up there. What, then, can be done to remedy the fact that a number of employers, mainly public employers, show very high sickness rates? We want to focus specific efforts on employers and impose sanctions. It is about tackling the problem and making sure that they can become a better organisation, so that people choose to stay. Madam President, I would like I myself have worked in Täby north of Stockholm, where I was chairman of the City Planning Board and the Social Welfare Board. During the time I worked there I could see that the bourgeois municipalities generally had better sickness rates than the red municipalities. I can take Täby as an example of a municipality where women earn much more than men. It is thus unequal in other ways, if you look at those who are employed by the municipality. The municipality that is most equal is Solna, where women and men earn just as much.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-488	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating how government efforts can best contribute to achieving a good working environment, based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Work can promote health and provide stimulation and social belonging, but it can also lead to negative consequences in terms of occupational injuries, both physical and mental, and, at worst, death. Madam President, I would like The development of the labour market affects the environment at work and the health problems that may result from work. For example, temporary employment is more common in the labour market today than in the late 1980s. The large increase was mainly due to the crisis in the 1990s. The number of Swedes on sick leave due to mental illness has doubled in just five years – this shows a recent report from Försäkringskassan. By far the largest and fastest growing diagnosis group is adjustment disorders and reaction to severe stress. Changing employment conditions also means that it takes time to investigate who has employer responsibility and thus responsibility for the employee's work environment. Overall, changes in the labour market present new challenges for work environment management. Madam President, I would like In February 2016, the Government presented a strategy for health and safety at work for the next five years. The strategy, developed in cooperation with the social partners, presented actions in three priority areas:
i-ddffc01e6b485468-492	A sustainable working life
i-ddffc01e6b485468-494	This shows the government's will direction and will guide the work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority in the coming years. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that further measures are needed to provide clear decision-making documents and information to authorities, employers, employees and the general public on the development of the working environment. For example, there is a lack of comprehensive statistics in this area, which makes it difficult to identify the main health and safety problems in a structured and reliable manner. Several investigations have revealed similar problems. Mrs. Old President! I would particularly like to highlight the importance of improving the working environment in the women's dominated workplaces. Women account for an increasing proportion of sick leave. It's just over 50 percent bigger than men's. Women are more affected than men by work-related problems. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is an expert authority that has great freedom to determine how the assignment is to be carried out. Today, there is no actor responsible for evaluating health and safety at work policy, and there are few analyses of the state's efforts to improve the working environment. The former Work Life Institute had a similar mission, but it was closed in 2007 by the then government. At that time, the assignment to carry out occupational health and safety research was transferred to universities and higher education institutions. It is therefore extremely important that an investigation appointed by the Government proposes a national health and safety centre at Stockholm University. The Centre's task shall be to collect and disseminate knowledge about the work environment and evaluate and analyse the effects of health and safety policy. Particular emphasis should be placed on the working environment in women-dominated industries. Mrs. Old President! I shall conclude by calling for all motions to be rejected and for the letter from the Government to be added to the file.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-499	Mrs. Old President! This report concerns the working environment and working time. When you listen to the Social Democrats, you might think that it affects everything else. But I will try to stick to the subject and talk about what the report concerns, namely the working environment. Mrs. Old President! I want to focus in particular on an area that must be highly prioritised in the work environment. It's about mental illness. Mental illness is a major problem, not only in working life but in society as a whole. There are just a lot of people in Sweden who feel bad. It is not necessarily a specific Swedish phenomenon. That is the case in many countries today. This certainly has to do with a variety of factors. One can see common features in different countries in the Western world and in countries similar to ours, of course. But it is a big problem for Sweden. Mental illness has also increased very much. Today, among women, this is the most common reason for reporting an occupational disease. Of course, that development must be broken. One could say that it is today a public disease in Sweden to feel bad. The increase in sick leave due to mental ill-health applies to a very large extent to women in publicly funded activities. It is about women who have high demands and who take a great responsibility but who at the same time have little decision-making power. Unfortunately, it is all too often bad employers and bad managers. It is about women who work close to people and who often find themselves in a vulnerable situation. Examples of occupational groups are social security officers, teachers and nurses. It is people who get squeezed between unreasonable demands, great stress, patients, clients, students, lack of management, lack of clarity in tasks and so on. This can create extreme stress in many responsible people, often women, who are well educated but who do not have relevant pay. Given the challenge faced by parts of the welfare system, it is a problem that Sweden is unable to meet basic commitments in the welfare system, as a result of the fact that many people who work there simply do not feel well. It is a major health and safety problem. This, of course, has to do with equality aspects. It is about the lack of feminism, a feminist view, and measures for it. There are health and safety aspects to this, and there are a number of other dimensions. The Swedish welfare is mainly carried by women. The system in Sweden relies on those who work with people to stand up when needed – and they do. Otherwise, we would not have been able to cope with the refugee crisis and a number of other situations. When the phone rings in the middle of the night, they come out. When they need to stay longer at work, they do. When the workload for a long time is far too high, they are struggling. Swedish welfare relies on those who work there not to say no. The fact that it is mainly women is, of course, due to the inequality we have in Sweden, Madam President of the Age. Women are encouraged to work in the humane professions while men don't – that's a fact. Women are raised to be responsible and caring and not to put themselves first. This is a huge gender equality problem that goes back a long way. It means a huge responsibility for the state, parliament, municipalities, county councils and others not to take advantage of this inequality by expecting those who work in welfare to always stand up. It has a very high price for the individual. It gets high sickness rates as a result. There are people in working life in Sweden who get too much personal pressure. It creates mental illness, which leads to them eventually entering the wall or in other ways ending up outside. Mrs. Old President! This is not because people would be weak. It's not because people don't want to do their job. It's just the opposite. It is often about people who work too much to solve their task, but the task itself is unreasonable. It is people who take such great responsibility, often because they work with people in a vulnerable situation, that they finally feel that they are carrying the whole difficult situation on their own shoulders. The systematic work environment work is extremely important for preventing mental illness, but it is by no means a miracle cure. It is very much about municipalities and county councils having to become better employers. The same applies, of course, to private actors, but municipalities and county councils are by far the largest employers and are also politicians-led businesses. They must improve their ability to recruit but also to retain staff. Not least, they must also develop their management. Mrs. Old President! As I mentioned, it is also about equality. In the best of worlds, we release the job when we go home. But that's not always how it works, but work and leisure, sleep and alertness, meals and more sort of float together. I believe that many in politics are also well aware of this. Women do more housework than men, and who vacuums and hangs the laundry also affects the situation in a much broader sense than just at home in the living room. Women do more domestic work than men even in families where parents live together. In addition, women make up the majority of completely single parents, that is, the parents who are primarily responsible for children. It is clear that we need to change society to ensure that women do not work too much both at work and at home in relation to men in society. Of course, one cannot have a high workload at work and at home at the same time. It will not go on indefinitely; we know that. Understanding how these structures are connected is a responsibility that we in Parliament have when we talk about sick leave and the working environment. We also have a number of authorities, health and safety strategy and many other things that are very important. As we know, there have been reductions in the past; then appropriations were set aside and so on. However, this is not necessarily linked to the increase in inspections, and I believe that the issue of the working environment has a much deeper problem, Madam President-in-Office, than we are dealing with only in our government. It is also very much about structures in society and a lack of equality.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-521	Mrs. Old President! There are two main reasons why the Swedish Democrats support parts of the proposed tightening up of the scale of penalties in the report The scale of penalties for certain serious violent crimes. Firstly, we have reflected on the fact that the public, and perhaps particularly the victims of crime and their relatives, rarely feel a real redress through the penalties that are being imposed today for many violent crimes. The main and most important reason for our position is therefore the victim's perspective and precisely the restoration of victims by working to ensure that the penalties for violent crimes are considerably longer. Second, spending longer in prison makes some people better. More specifically, it is precisely the sentence of six months that shows the greatest difference between those who relapse into crime and those who do not make it as easy. Those who spend more than six months in prison for quite a number of years now relapse considerably less in crime than those who spend six months and less in prison. This is, of course, due to the fact that the prison services are better placed to do better work with those who are in prison for a longer period of time. The second reason for our position is therefore that we want to create better conditions for fewer people who are convicted of violent crimes to relapse into crimes after serving a sentence. In this report, a comprehensive approach to a limited number of types of crime has been addressed. As a rule, the proposals raise minimum sentences for these types of crime from today's six months in prison to nine months in prison. Mrs. Old President! The Swedish Democrats are in favour of strengthening the scale of penalties in order to change the penalties with a higher penalty value for certain violent crimes as a result. Our ambition, however, is, unlike the government, to make a broader review of all violent crimes and also to adjust the maximum and minimum levels of different categories of crime. However, achieving the overall level of ambition we seek requires a broader review and preparation in order to create a coherent whole. For this reason, we choose to limit our proposals to the conditions to which we feel that the Government's proposal gives room. A reasonable balance based on the relationship with other scales of penalties and while maintaining the possibility of differentiated penalties, we consider: 中 that the minimum sentence for aggravated assault and extortion is raised from one year to two years in prison
i-ddffc01e6b485468-532	To conclude, I can only say that, for this debate too, there are differences in how we view crime and punishment in this House. The government's cooperation party, the Left Party, does not share our view that victims of crime deserve a substantial reparation through harsher penalties for violent crimes and therefore proposes that the whole bill be rejected. It is worth bearing in mind that a so-called feminist left party does not stand up for all those women who in different ways are victims of violent crimes by men, as it usually is. The Left Party believes that these men deserve low penalties, for they believe that short sentences and less than the possibility of treatment make women's abusers better people. Above all, the Left Party believes that violent women are better off being able to encounter their perpetrators in freedom as soon as possible after a trial. Mrs. Old President! We do not share the Left Party's view, and we want to go further than the government in terms of harsher penalties for violent crimes. That is why I choose to support our reservation in this report.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-535	Mrs. Old President! I must admit that it is not easy to make a good political debate out of such a bill. But simply put, this proposal put forward by the government is not sufficiently justified as to why the penalties should be tightened up so much as is now being proposed. The government has acted more emotionally than legally. The big question in my speech will be: Why? Punishment can be tightened up in order for the police to prioritise the crime higher, spend more resources on the crime and use more methods to investigate the crime. At least the Left Party thinks so. Punishment is society's ultimate means of power against its citizens. The penalty does not serve any repair function but is used to create suffering for people who are convicted. It is therefore important that penalties are indeed well thought out and justified. The penalty was last tightened seven years ago – then by the alliance government. But that law was not well written, so the courts had a little difficulty following what the Riksdag had decided. Now the government wants to paint the picture that the penalties have not been tightened at all over the last seven years and therefore wants to tighten the penalties a little bit more. But this doesn't make any sense. According to the Crime Prevention Council, which has evaluated the law, the reform has significantly increased the penalties for aggravated assault, which is the most common type of crime among the serious violent crimes. The same is true of the Supreme Court. All in all, Brå makes the assessment that the penalty measure reform has had a significant impact in the application of the law. Yet the government wants to raise the penalties even more. The Swedish penal system rests on the fundamental principle of proportionality and equivalence. Severe crimes must be punished more severely than minor offences, while equally serious crimes must be punished equally severely. The level of the penalty shall be proportionate to the damage or danger caused by the offence and shall indicate the seriousness of the offence in relation to other offences. The punishment should express society's blame for the criminal act. Yeah, it's supposed to be so complicated. Crime and punishment are not easy. The Swedish penal system also rests on the principle of humanity, which means that society's action against the individual with punishment should be done with caution and not go beyond what is necessary. The bill lacks an impact assessment of the negative consequences and costs of prison sentences. The impact of the proposal has not been sufficiently analysed from a child's perspective either. The fact that both the investigation and the bill seem to have forgotten that it is actually people who will be affected and affected by the proposed penalty is also remarkable. What is also not mentioned are the consequences of the bill, which will lead to an annual increase in prison time by 495 years and which will cost SEK 376 million per year. In this bill, the government has not been able to respond well enough to why the penalty is to be imposed. Why is it needed? What's it for? In this case, there are no acceptable reasons to increase the scale of penalties as proposed by the government. The Left Party believes that the legislative instrument and the design of scales of penalties should not be used as pawns in a symbolic political game. The Left Party believes that willful and serious use of force is highly reprehensible and that people guilty of such crimes should be prosecuted. However, we choose to listen to what research and established experience say instead of being guided by populism in the formulation of our legal policy and our legislative work. Being critical and questioning about constantly legislating and generally proposing longer sentences does not mean that the Left Party view crime with ease, but we take the rule of law seriously. Heavy consultation bodies, the Department of Criminology at Stockholm University and the Faculty of Law Board at the same university, believe that the Government does not sufficiently justify the proposal. The motivations used are simple to empirically answer and disprove. This bill is an expression of the government continuing the work that Beatrice Ask started and also failed to do. This is not the first time that the government has followed the Moderate policy of punishment. I have the greatest respect for the fact that there is an expression of will that the penalties should be this and so long, but legislation within the framework of the criminal code is not only party politics, but it must also be legally and empirically justified. Neither Beatrice Ask nor Morgan Johansson can do that. And that is regrettable. The main motive used by the government in the bill is that society today takes violent crime seriously. That's right, isn't it? Violent crime is extremely serious. But there is no empirically based knowledge that supports the view that general legal awareness requires stricter penalties for violent crimes. There's no empirical evidence. There's only one feeling the government feels. I think we should actually listen more to lawyers than to feelings. I am not a lawyer at all, but several members of the Committee on Justice are lawyers. Today I think your yurs. I'm a candidate. weighs higher than your party political membership. The Left Party wishes to reject the entire bill, and I propose that reservation 1.
i-SVNfptpmHwJawQi14Nfox6	Mrs. Old President! The Liberals have a reservation in the JuU14 report on the scales of penalties for certain violent crimes, and I call for our reservation 3. It deals with the issue of violations of peace and the violation of women's rights. The Liberals have drawn attention to the important issue in the past and on a regular basis. Among other things, this is about the need for reverse municipal arrest. We have put forward proposals on how to change the complicated regulatory framework with regard to electronic anklets in order to tackle violence against women and, not least, those men who abuse ex-wives or cohabiting couples. We have also proposed an increase in the minimum penalty for serious women's poverty. Mrs. Old President! We had a debate with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson this summer where we pointed out the problem of being convicted of the crime. We produced figures, and there were also figures in the media, namely that 13 400 cases were reported, but that only about 1 000 people were convicted of gross female poverty. The legislation that the Alliance with the People's Party strengthened in 2013 has had some effect in the sense that it has increased consciousness and that there are many cases. However, we do not believe that the legislation has had the impact that we had hoped for, namely more prosecutions and that people are also convicted of the serious crimes. On this basis, I do not agree with the speech of the Left Party in this House that nothing needs to be done and that the bill should be rejected. It's directly irresponsible. It goes without saying that the Liberals are assisting the Government's proposal in the bill, which essentially involves raising the minimum penalty on a number of points. We from the Liberals want to go further. We also asked the government a question last summer about the evaluation, including whether it was not time to review the scale of punishment for women's poverty. We were then told that the government is waiting. The government believes that it is too early to change the legislation and that an evaluation is being made instead. Mrs. Old President! We have noted that there is a review of the legislation on sex offences. I cannot really find what the government is doing when it comes to evaluating the part I have mentioned, and I have not seen any bill coming forward to raise the penalties for gross female poverty. The government's rhetoric that this is a priority issue has not been paired with concrete proposals for stronger legislation to this House.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-554	Mrs. Old President! Views of the severity of a crime type change with the development of society. The development of society means both that we legislators will have to criminalise new acts in society and that the penalties for certain crimes will have to be tightened up as new crime patterns emerge. The balance we face is how, on the one hand, we ensure that those who have ended up in crime can in the long term leave that life behind, on the other hand, mark that certain crimes in society are more reprehensible and will entail more severe penalties. The development of society as regards the measurement of a crime's reprehensibility is generally progressing. It is important today that we consider child abuse, rape and forced marriage to be serious crime, unlike in the past. The stricter view is today reflected in a level of punishment that is at least reasonably proportionate to the seriousness of the crimes. But here too we need to take other and new measures, not least with regard to new legislation on rape. Mrs. Old President! Over time, the view of serious violent crimes and property crimes has changed into the more severe one. That's good. The then bourgeois government tried through the 2010 Penalty Measurement Reform to bring about change. What was done was to amend the general rules on criminal value with a view to enabling the courts to assess primarily the objective circumstances. In this way, penalties for serious violent crimes would be increased in general. However, when Brå 2014 made an evaluation, it turned out that the purpose of the measures had not been achieved. There were no increases at all in the length of the sentence for assault, rape, extortion or robbery. According to the evaluation, only the length of sentences for aggravated assault had increased by two months. The reform was also met with criticism, not least in the legal literature and the debate. If we want to impose penalties, we need to increase the scale of penalties for the crimes concerned. Therefore, the need for these penalties has persisted. There is really nothing in social development in recent years that gives rise to any other assessment than that of the 2010 reform. More serious use of force today is more likely to be met by a stronger reaction from the public. I think it is important for the Left Party to bear this in mind. Last Saturday, I spoke on a major manifestation in Järva, Stockholm, where citizens demanded greater police presence in the area and punitive measures against serious and serious crime, particularly serious violent crime. The station was designed to honor the memory of a doctor in the area who died on a walk home and was hit by two people on a motocross bike that was reported stolen. The driver left the scene even though the hit was fighting for his life. The case management of this specific case is ongoing, so I will not comment on it further. But I can say that many of the participants in the manifestation raised the need for something to be done about serious crimes such as assault, robbery of local stores and blackmailing anyone who wants to testify. I also note that the local representatives of the Left Party supported the demands of the manifestation, but that the Left Party in the Riksdag would reject a bill that would tighten the penalties for this type of crime, i.e. aggravated assault, aggravated robbery, gross blackmail, illegal coercion, gross illegal threat and genital mutilation of women. I think it's startling, almost upsetting. Mrs. Old President! With this report on the scale of penalties for serious violent crimes, we intend to impose penalties on certain types of crime. We have considered them in the past, but it is only today that we can bring about these changes through the proposal that has been put forward. The minimum sentence for aggravated assault shall be increased from one year in prison to one year and six months in prison. For aggravated assault, the minimum sentence shall be increased from four years' imprisonment to five years' imprisonment. In addition, the penalty shall be increased for aggravated robbery, gross blackmail, gross illegal coercion and gross illegal threat. The most important thing in this bill is that the punishment of a person who violates the law on the prohibition of genital mutilation of women instead of imprisonment for a maximum of four years should be jailed for a minimum of two years and a maximum of six years. For the severity of the crime, the minimum sentence shall be increased from imprisonment for two years to imprisonment for five years. This is a crime that we must work much more actively against in society, and in this way we mark the seriousness of the crime. A specific scale of penalties shall also be introduced for offences which, in view of the circumstances, are considered to be minor, prescriptive prison sentences for a maximum of four years. I will conclude by commenting on the Liberals' reservation to increase the penalties for the crime of gross violation of peace. As late as July 1, 2013, the sentence was increased from six months in prison to nine months in prison. Right now, there's a review of the sexual crimes. In addition, we are taking strong action against this type of crime, not least by removing reforms in other areas. For example, it is a question of removing child custody allowances and other things that put women in systematic oppression. I think this could be a way forward. Furthermore, we have greatly increased resources for women's shelters and crime shelters in society. We believe that this proposal should focus on the serious crimes of violence. We may have a continued dialogue on the measures highlighted by the Liberals, but in this proposal we will not highlight these measures. Mrs. Old President! I support the proposal in its entirety and call for the reservations to be rejected.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-573	Mrs. Old President! I support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It is gratifying but not at all surprising that we have a greater consensus on these issues. Anyone who claims that tolerance to violence has not diminished in society does not know what he or she is talking about. There are several reasons why tolerance has been reduced. To some extent it is about media reporting and so on. Some criminologists feel that this would be the reason why people do not tolerate violence to a greater extent and that violence has not increased. No, violence has not increased, and that is one reason why tolerance to violence has decreased. People do not think that violence is a way of solving problems between people in civilized societies. Urbanisation is increasing worldwide. People live closer and more closely together, yet violent crime is reduced. There is therefore reason to make it particularly clear to those who have not received the signal that when people live close together, you cannot abuse other people and take the right to mutilate and kill people. It's about respect. Perhaps that is the most misused word today. What's respect anyway? Yes, it's tolerance. Respect means to tolerate other people, not to impose one's opinion on others for various reasons and for selfish interests. This is the continuation of the work begun under an alliance government, which led to the first reform of the penalty value of crimes. As Mr Redar explained, it was a matter of dealing with the concrete penalty value, namely the various circumstances that will make crime more serious. Quite rightly, it had an impact on aggravated assault, but otherwise it did not. It has also been pointed out in Supreme Court judgments that it was difficult to apply the reform in this way. The natural thing is to do it this way instead. This is the result of the investigation set up by the Alliance Government in March 2013. It should have concrete effects by the legislator determining the abstract criminal value of different crimes, and there is reason to raise the abstract penalty values because people look more seriously at this type of crime than before. Tolerance against crime, particularly serious violent crime, has been significantly reduced. In many countries, there is still a view of child rearing, for example, where abuse is even an obligation. I have met people who have been prosecuted in court and convicted of the false belief that beatings, even serious assaults, would be a natural part of upbringing. In Sweden, I would say, this no longer exists. There may be some people who do not understand how to handle other people and how to behave appropriately. But it is not excusable in any case, even if you have a wrong view. The main problem of the Left Party is relativism on various issues. It is linked, for example, to prosperity and poverty, but the fact is that the people in this society who are most affected by insecurity and who also have the lowest security are those who live in areas that are exposed to serious crime. Reasons don't hold. I will just briefly say, before commenting on this further, that we are only in favour of the proposal as such. If you are going to look at penalties in general, you should do so in a larger context. With regard to the violations of peace, it was the first time that the minimum penalty was raised to nine months, which is odd in the legal context. The difficulty is that violations of peace are so-called competition law, i.e. crimes that are composed of other crimes. Normally, three different acts are required, but there are decisions in which, in a relapse situation, two acts have sufficed when they were directed against the same plaintiff during trial periods after previous sentences. This means that if you get too high a level of minimum penalties, the principle of proportionality and equivalence are no longer true. This must be seen in a context. For example, violations of a restraining order can on two occasions constituate gross women's freedom or gross violation of peace. The same applies to the Swedish Democrats' proposal to adjust the scale of penalties for certain crimes at millimetre level. Adam Marttinen was contradictory in advocating a major overhaul, but he stepped on his foot at the end. You have to look at this. For example, abuse. There we have overlapping scales of punishment just like when stealing. Why is that? Well, the reason is that an assault that can't be considered gross can be very reprehensible. It should be possible to cross the minimum penalty for aggravated assault, and therefore the penalty scale for ordinary assault ends in prison for two years. With this proposal, there will be at least six months of overlap, and that is reasonable. Otherwise, one would not be able to deal with the very reprehensible cases that are still not aggravated assault. I would like to mention again something about the Left Party's proposal that all this should be rejected. This party is a support party for the government and affects the budgetary work but obviously does not do so on these issues. For me, it is completely foreign that more severe penalties should be considered if it entails a stronger priority in the judicial system as well as increased resources for investigating the crimes. What's the news there? Well, it's that hard-to-find petty crimes should be punished the hardest. Is that what the Left Party wants to achieve? It makes no sense to me. It's hardly research and science. If you say research and science in this context, it is only a pamphlet. Experienced criminologists may have had a different view in the past, but you can put things in proportion to each other. If a person is locked into a prison, who suffers the greatest harm in relative terms? Is it the person who has been put in prison and who has been guilty of a serious act? Or should you let the person be free and perhaps harm other completely innocent people — women and children? No, of course, it is better for the person who is the offender and criminal to be in prison or in prison, to use a different expression. This is where you can influence people to make new and better life choices. Criminals are rational. The length of the penalty is of some significance. It may not mean everything, but you should not exclude people who are criminals because they are just that. They can make new and better life choices – there are many examples of that. The reasoning there won't hold either. Finally, I have not found any referral from the Legal Institution that has the content that Linda Snecker claimed. It was possibly the criminological institution, but it was almost a rejection of prison sentences as a whole. That's about how you get to see the Left Party, too.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-593	Mrs. Old President! Today's debate mainly deals with the Government's proposal to tighten the penalties for serious violent crimes such as genital mutilation of women, gross and extremely serious assault, aggravated robbery, gross illegal coercion and gross blackmail. To understand how these proposals are put on the table at all, we need to go back to 2010, when the former bourgeois government carried out its intended penalty reform. The reform was aimed at generally encouraging serious treatment of violent crimes, but, as has been noted in this debate, that method was not very effective. Now we are redeploying and using the method that should actually be used if we really want to increase the penalties for crimes, namely to change the scales of penalties. I am not going to go into all individual cases, but the overall reason for the changes is precisely what previous speakers have said, namely the changed view of different types of crime. Views of violent crime, particularly serious violent crime, have been strengthened in relation to, for example, property crimes such as theft and fraud. The reasons remain in place since 2010. On the other hand, I am going to deal specifically with one of the crimes where I think the reasons are particularly strong. It's about genital mutilation of women. The normal punishment for this very serious crime, which in many cases involves lifelong suffering and restrictions on the opportunity of the girl or woman to participate in community life, was previously in prison for at least two weeks. This, Madam Old President, is far too low. An important principle in criminal law is to equate equally serious crimes with each other. Genital mutilation must reasonably be compared with, for example, various forms of aggravated assault or rape. Therefore, I think it is well justified that the punishment for the normal crime of genital mutilation of women is now being raised to at least two years in prison. Although I have respect for the view expressed by the Left Party that we cannot always agree in principle to constantly increase the penalties for various crimes, I object to the argument that these balances would not be well done and that these proposals would not be carefully considered. I find this particularly surprising when it comes to genital mutilation of women. I do not understand how the Left Party has come to the conclusion that a minimum sentence of two weeks' imprisonment is a reasonable normal level for this very serious crime. Mrs. Old President! I will also say a few words about the Liberals' proposal to change the punishment for the violations of peace. It is a very serious problem, which affects people in their homes and the person closest to them, such as their partners. These crimes the government works against in many different ways, not least through the ten-year national strategy against men's violence against women that has recently been dealt with here in Parliament. It is incredibly important that the focus here is on preventing these crimes, providing support for the vulnerable – mostly women, but of course also men – and, of course, that we have balanced penalties. But, Madam President, I would like to remind you that these sentences were raised as late as four years ago in 2013. That is why there are not enough good reasons now for further tightening up. I support the proposal in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and reject all reservations.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-602	Mrs. Old President! We do not have different views on these issues this time, I would like to say to Annika Hirvonen Falk. The first thing I have reason to say is: Welcome to reality! As far as genital mutilation is concerned, I certainly agree with everything. It is a crime that has both a violent and a sexual crime character and which entails a long-term and irreversible restriction of privacy. I am just as surprised as Annika Hirvonen Falk at the fact that the Left Party does not believe that the punishment for this type of crime should be tightened. I think it's incredibly strange. It is true that the Green Party is now a government party. But Annika Hirvonen Falk has said in previous debates that all research shows that stricter penalties do not matter. Then my question is: Has Annika Hirvonen Falk possibly changed his mind, or is it the Environmental Party that has changed its mind or what about that particular question?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-606	Mrs. Old President! I believe that Anti Avsan is a little simplistic in its memory of our previous debates. What I can remember, and I think it is important to emphasise in this context too, is that more stringent penalties are not generally a prevention of crime. For example, there is nothing to suggest that an offender in the choice between beating his wife or not considering the possible length of the prison sentence. There I feel that the debate in the past has actually been very much about the argument that tougher penalties mean that fewer people commit crimes. That is not to say that it cannot have any significance. We know, for example, that very short prison sentences do not provide the prison services with sufficient opportunities to work with the convicted in order to prevent the recurrence of crime. As Anti Avsan himself pointed out, it is for those individuals who are sentenced to this punishment and are in prison for a few months, of course, that they may not relapse into crime. But if you really want to prevent crime, it is a completely different type of action that is required, and the former bourgeois government has ignored that. The current government, of which my party is a member, has adopted the first crime prevention programme in 20 years. This type of intervention plays a role. The government has invested in schools in vulnerable areas. Such measures play a role. The government has seen to it that unemployment is falling. Such measures play a role in reducing crime.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-611	Mrs. Old President! The fact that more people are working today depends, first of all, on the measures taken by the Alliance Government. But we are not going to debate it now, but we are going to debate legal policy. If you commit crimes, it is not ultimately about what you have happened to yourself; it is about what each person can allow himself to do to others. It is clear that it can be prevented in various ways. With regard to the claim that there would have been no preventive work during the time of the alliance government, I would say the opposite. A crime prevention programme with large and bland headlines without content is not the solution to the problems we see in, for example, the areas exposed to serious crime. There I think the government has shown quite a paralysing. It is about actually doing the basic job that all the police should do and that everyone in the social services should do to get to grips with the problems that exist. Maybe you haven't. In the field of crime prevention, there were quite a few concrete changes. Among other things, it was about introducing greater opportunities to carry out pre-trial investigations against children under the age of 15. Why did they do that? This was not done in order for them to be prosecuted – we have a criminal age of 15 years – but for the social services to have tools to intervene early. We have fought for social intervention groups, where the government has shown itself to be nifty. I visited all the social intervention groups in this county during the time when it was a trial of social intervention groups. It was very effective. So, of course, many crime prevention measures have been taken. But that's not what it's all about. In fact, every matter requires action. The content of penalties is important. But in addition, it is important that society reacts. That's why we have punishment.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-619	Mrs. Old President! Perhaps it would be exaggerating to say that the former bourgeois government did nothing to prevent crime. However, the fact remains that the gaps increased, the number of vulnerable areas increased and support for the work of the Crime Prevention Council to support the municipalities in concrete crime prevention work remained still in all the years that Anti Avsan's party was responsible for these issues. During the current government, we have multiplied the support for the Crime Prevention Council's crime prevention work, something that is strongly sought out in the municipalities. As regards tools for social services, the most important tool for social services to be able to intervene, both against children who commit crimes and to protect children who are victims of crime, is more colleagues. Therefore, it plays a huge role that the government has provided general government grants of 10 billion to municipalities and that special efforts are being made on social services. This is what can really have a wide impact on reducing crime against both young and young people. I'll get back to today's business. I don't want to argue that punishment would have no meaning. However, given the importance of penalties, we are making these changes precisely in order to achieve proportionality and equivalence in the penal system. I really think that genital mutilation of women is the clearest example where it has not been appropriate.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-623	Mrs. Old President! We have an important and long debate ahead of us. We will go through the CU14, which is about housing policy, and the CU15, which is about planning and construction. There are two important reports on housing policy that the parties want to conduct. Both are motion reports. I am putting forward the reservations that the alliance parties are behind. I also mention what, for example, the Christian Democrats or the Christian Democrats and some other individual party have done. From this one can get an overall picture of which housing policy the Alliance, and especially the Christian Democrats, will eventually want to go to elections on. Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in the CU14 and reservation 5 in the CU15, so it is done and will not be forgotten. Then I would like to go further and present the first reservation, which concerns measures in the housing market. A functioning housing market is an important prerequisite for growth and increased employment. The current housing shortage is serious because it limits people's freedom and opportunities to move to work and education. It also limits companies' ability to grow and compete. The housing shortage particularly affects young people who are going to establish themselves on the housing market, people who are going to the metropolitan regions to work, as well as asylum seekers and new arrivals. The housing shortage leads to rising property prices and increases the risks associated with high household indebtedness. The Swedish housing market continues to face huge challenges, and to counter the housing shortage it is therefore necessary to provide the conditions for new production of housing that corresponds to existing demand. During the alliance government, major and important reforms were implemented to increase housing construction, not least under the leadership of the Minister for Civil Affairs and Housing Stefan Attefall. Happily, the construction of housing is also increasing today, thanks to the work begun by the alliance government. Under the influence of the Left Party, the current government has chosen to focus on extensive building subsidies. I'm sorry to say that, but they've been condemned by both the scientists and the construction industry. Given that there is indeed a boom in the Swedish housing market at present, it can be said that it is nothing more than a waste of tax revenue to further subsidise housing in this situation, which would still be built. The risk is also that the wrong kind of housing will be built and not where the demand is. Even the construction companies themselves don't want the subsidies. Instead, what the construction companies are asking for is a continuation of the modern housing policy pursued by the Alliance Government, with a focus on implementing regulatory simplifications and creating long-term sustainable rules of play in a housing market in which the demand of the housing consumer is being controlled. When it comes to measures to promote construction and mobility, the government's own proposals have been few. Many of the proposals that the government is now presenting and taking credit for are in practice already known proposals from the reign of the Alliance or from investigations that the former alliance government set up. In order to balance a housing market, we believe that there is a need for a different policy, without subsidies and with a focus on promoting construction and increasing mobility in the housing market. One of the main obstacles to increased housing construction today is the lack of competition and labour in the construction sector, but we believe that the government lacks the capacity to act and the will to take the necessary measures. It is clear that Sweden cannot reach the required building volumes to achieve a balanced housing construction or increase competition without more foreign construction companies and foreign workers entering the Swedish construction market. That is why we think it is worrying that the government, with the support of the Left Party, is not only passive but also for a policy that in practice makes it difficult for foreign construction workers in Sweden. The consequence of this is not only that less housing is being built than would be needed, but also that the costs of building housing in Sweden continue to be among the highest in the EU. Apart from the fact that too little is being built, the existing housing stock is not being used efficiently enough. In order to free up more housing, the housing market needs to be reformed both in the short term and in the long term. The need for reform has become even greater with the increasing number of asylum seekers and new arrivals. Mobility in the housing market must be speeded up and the migration chains must work. It must pay to build and invest in rental apartments and pay for those who want and have the opportunity to rent out their private dwelling or parts of the dwelling. In other areas, too, there is a need for changes to increase mobility and the functioning of migration chains. Good access to housing with different tenure forms is a prerequisite for effective integration. I am thinking of the so-called million-programme areas, where we clearly see the consequences of the policies of previous Social Democratic governments and of the current government, I am sorry to say, continue to carry on. In the tenancy-dominated million programme areas, the opportunities to own and influence their housing are too small. More people must therefore be given the opportunity to own their housing. After all, this means greater freedom for the individual and contributes to a greater sense of responsibility for one's home, for the property and for the area in which one lives. As a rule – and now I am talking about a long time – the individual's economy also benefits, especially in view of the way in which the current rental system is designed. Therefore, in order to increase diversity and strengthen integration, conversions should be promoted in these areas so that more people have the opportunity to own their homes. An increased share of owned apartments would, in the opinion of the alliance parties, help to improve integration in these areas. A good suggestion is the Alliance's proposal for a new form of housing for young people. The lack of housing in the country affects not least young people looking for their first home. Young households, of course, do not constitute a completely homogeneous group, but, like other households, demand can vary considerably in terms of the condition, location and tenure of the dwelling. However, common to many young people is that it is difficult to establish yourself in the housing market at all. In addition to housing intended for university students, there is currently a limited supply of housing specifically intended for young people. In recent years, changes have been made to the legislation to improve the possibility of building smaller and cheaper dwellings, i.e. homes that are often requested by young households. However, there are still more opportunities to deviate from the general requirements of the building rules for student housing than for small dwellings designed to be used as housing for young people. Against this background, we believe that it should be examined whether it is appropriate to develop clear rules for a separate form of housing for young people. The aim of such a form of housing would be to increase the supply of cheap housing intended for young people and, at the same time, to avoid the lock-in effects that may exist in the current stock of youth housing. I would like to mention something about a reservation that the Christian Democrats and the Centre Party have in common, which concerns credit guarantees in rural areas. It's no 12. The possibility of building on rural areas is an important part of a policy for living rural areas. The alliance succeeded in raising the government credit guarantees available for construction in areas where the market value does not clearly exceed production costs. This instrument should, in the opinion of the Christian Democrats and the Centres, be further developed in order to facilitate construction in places where the ability to pay exists but, unfortunately, traditional bank financing is difficult to obtain. Mrs. Old President! I turn to the somewhat thicker report CU15. The committee proposes two announcements to the government in connection with the motion for a resolution on the revision of the Planning and Construction Act and the accessibility requirements for student housing. The committee believes that the government should continue the work that has been undertaken to improve and simplify the Planning and Construction Act. For this there is a majority in Parliament – at least I hope it will be so at the vote! In addition, the committee believes that the government should investigate the possibility of lowering the requirements for student housing in terms of accessibility and more. Here, too, there are reservations – I am particularly attached to those in common with the Alliance. Reservation No 5, which I supported, concerns the limitation of the detailed plan requirement. In the Bill A simpler plan process, the Alliance Government proposed in 2013 a series of measures to simplify the Planning and Construction Act. The focus on the proposals was to create simpler and clearer rules and to increase predictability and transparency. One of the proposals was to limit the requirement for detailed plans in the Planning and Construction Act. Instead of in principle always requiring a detailed plan for new integrated buildings, municipalities would be given greater scope to assess where a detailed plan is required. This proposal was welcomed by market players, particularly as municipalities are best placed to determine where a detailed plan is needed. However, the Parliament rejected the Government's proposal in this part. The alliance parties believe that the need to simplify the rules and shorten the time to start construction remains and that the proposals should therefore be implemented. As regards appeal rules, the alliance parties believe that developments in recent years in the demand for new housing underline the need to facilitate and accelerate the housing construction process at all stages. As the committee has stated in its position, for almost a year now, new rules have been in force whereby decisions to adopt, amend or repeal a detailed plan or sectoral provisions are directly appealed to the Land and Environment Court at first instance. We share the opinion of the committee that the motion for a resolution thus met should be rejected. We believe, however, that there are good reasons to completely remove the County Administrative Board from the administrative chain also for appeals against decisions on building permits. The same should, in our opinion, apply to decisions on other laws, advance rulings and supervisory matters. Reservation 7 is about private initiative to detailed plan. Here, the alliance parties would like to point out that the committee in its proposal for a notice to the government in spring 2015 stated that there is reason to consider the possibility of introducing a right to private initiative in the detailed planning of Swedish planning and construction legislation. We stand by this view. Furthermore, speaking of reservation 8, we want shorter processing times.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-654	In reservation 15, we highlight the measures that have been granted for building permits. Finally, Madam President, I would like to mention serially manufactured houses. Sweden needs more housing at reasonable prices, and we need a more industrialised construction process than we have today. It must therefore be possible to build cheaper. More houses than today should be able to be built with standardised components, and more type-approved houses – not least multi-residential ones – must be able to be built throughout the country
i-ddffc01e6b485468-657	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of CU15 reservation 1. Sweden is doing well. I say this not just because Sweden has a Social Democratic-led government, but it is doing well for Sweden. Are we Social Democrats satisfied? No, we're not. But Sweden has undeniably good speed, with falling unemployment, a housing building we have not seen since the days of the million-dollar programme and strong public finances. And that, Madam Old President, is not a bad start. Of course, there is much to be worried about. Housing deprivation and segregation are such things, as well as an alienation that in some areas tends to bite down. In a troubled world, we have shown openness to those who are having a difficult time. We have received a historically large proportion of people on the run – even in international comparisons – which has strained the situation in several municipalities and municipalities. Overcrowding and increased wear and tear on housing holdings are there – we are all aware of this. But we're gonna get through this in a good way. This requires increased collaboration between the state and municipal levels and responsiveness to the challenges. Sweden and our municipalities are being tested, and the same is happening in many parts of Europe. Hate, intolerance, and suspicion will never build countries, cities, and neighborhoods that stick together. There are enough of us in this country and in this House to choose another road – a road that holds our country, our cities and our neighbourhoods together. This choice is important for us Social Democrats. Sweden today reports the highest employment rate in the EU since Eurostat began to measure this. Youth unemployment is the lowest in our country in 13 years. Today more people start the day by saying to their family: "I'm going to work! Sweden should of course be a community that holds together, where more and more people can take a rental contract or buy a dwelling. The right to housing is fundamental in our society. A home of your own means the freedom to live one's own life, to take that job, to start that education, to move in with one's love and to live safely in older days. That is why the housing issue is so crucial. I really want to believe that we can have a broad consensus. The people outside this Chamber expect it. The Prime Minister stated in his first government declaration that increased housing construction is a national matter. It is not just a matter for the applicant, for the developer or for the municipality, but is a national matter, where the state has a responsibility to work together with the municipalities and the construction and housing industry for increased construction. The government invited earlier during its term of office to talks with the Alliance and the Left Party. The challenge was to find long-term conditions for extensive housing construction over time. It didn't go all the way, but the Alliance left the calls. We can argue about the reasons for this. The losers, however, are those who seek their first residence or are waiting to find one that fits the new life situation. The fact that these talks did not end in a broad agreement is only tragic. Long-term conditions are still waiting for their solution. We still want cross-block talks, and we want a broad tax agreement. Several of the keys to housing policy are, of course, in fiscal policy. The conditions for this should be there, especially given that several parties have been in favour of this very thing. A not insignificant number of the motions dealt with in the two reports on which today's debate is based relate to urgent issues that could be addressed in a broad tax agreement. It just underlines the importance of such a thing. Mrs. Old President! Notices are addressed to the government in the CU15 report. A majority in the committee wants the work on reforming the Planning and Construction Act to continue. We share that view. In our reservation, we point out that the Government has commissioned Boverket to investigate whether more measures can be exempted from the requirement for building permits. The Government has already submitted a proposal to the Riksdag for more steps for a simpler planning and construction law. In this situation, to submit an announcement to the government to continue to reform the Planning and Construction Act seems a little strange. We believe that the government is working on precisely this. In the government's 22-point programme there is a fairly broad allocation to simplify, review and develop. That is why we have chosen to reserve our reservations against this decision. But for the sake of clarity, there is a broad consensus in committee on continuing to reform the Planning and Construction Act. As regards the accessibility requirement, the Government has appointed a committee to carry out a thorough review of Boverket's building regulations. This includes accessibility requirements. That is why we do not believe that an announcement is justified on this point either. We have therefore chosen to reserve ourselves in reservation 20 of the report. Mrs. Old President! Today, a great deal is being built in our country. Several of the parties in this House are also working on the continuous development of their housing policy. The government, through its 22-point programme, has ongoing work in several housing policy areas, and that is a good thing. Through the policy of incentives for rentals, for municipalities that build, for renovation and energy, the state uses funds to enable construction in cities and towns that would otherwise fall outside the scope, depending on risk and return requirements. Construction companies point to the advantages of rental rights as a low vacancy risk in newly produced stocks and that the cost of production is actually reduced through investment support. We also see that long-term investors, such as life insurance companies, are interested in investing in projects built with investment aid. The interest in building with the investment support is also seen through the many applications that have been received that are too decisive or have already received the go-ahead. Mrs. Old President! Increased housing construction is a national matter," says the Prime Minister. It is being built today in line with the days of the million-dollar programme. The challenges are still great, but the starting point is not bad. There is hope for the future. To conclude, I would like to address Mr Tuve Skånberg, chairman of the committee. Thank you very much for the way in which you substituteed as chairman of the committee when the ordinary chairman had been on parental leave. After the weekend, your party friend Caroline Szyber will be back in her place. With order and glimmer in your eye, you've led the committee's meetings. Thank you for this.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-683	Mrs. Old President! Today we are again having a debate on housing policy and much about the basis for it, i.e. planning and construction. From a moderate point of view, we have a housing shortage in 240 out of 290 municipalities. Although more is being built at the moment than in a very long time, we can see that this is not enough. Many cannot move to work and study, cannot move away from home or find a place to live in the event of a divorce. This is not the way we can actually have it. A functioning housing market is a prerequisite for good life, for growth and for increased employment. The current housing shortage is serious because it restricts people's freedom. The housing shortage is limiting businesses and employees, but above all the housing shortage is affecting young people who want to leave home, anyone who wants to move to the metropolitan regions, new arrivals and asylum seekers. The housing shortage is part of the strong increase in property prices and therefore also high mortgages in households. This is not the way we can actually have it. The housing market continues to face major challenges. In order to counter the housing shortage, it is necessary to provide the conditions for new production of housing corresponding to demand. In my opinion, policy needs to focus more on the regulatory framework in three areas: more buildable land, simpler and clearer regulations and increased mobility for better use of the stock. A friend of order may wonder why. Basically, it's because I have countless examples, and I'm going to take a few. A friend of mine has had the opportunity to buy a piece of land to build a small house, which is her dream. But before you buy the land you have to get some kind of hum about whether you will be allowed to build. So she turned to the municipality – I don't have to name it – to ask: How do I do it? At the municipality, they said, "You can apply for an advance notice." Fine! It's $12,000, okay. And it'll take 20 weeks to make no sense! The second example is an developer that I have met with who wants to build rental apartments and has an area but who gets stuck in the fact that it is not possible to get a property formation. Or it is clear that it is possible, but it will take one to one and a half years to get this property formation. The third example is a person who needs a detailed plan for a piece of land to build rental apartments. The municipality is very positive to that. But unfortunately the gender is to get a detailed plan for a year and a half, so in a year and a half, says the municipality, we will start working on your detailed plan. The fourth example is a person who had received a positive advance ruling on the exploitation of leases. When the situation became sharp and the developer had spent a few million on producing all the documents, it was no in the municipality. The fifth example, which I have taken in the past, concerns noise. A municipality with a housing shortage that demolished houses 20 years ago states: Now we need to build new ones. Then we build on the plots where we have previously demolished properties – perfect, everything is there. But, no, you can't, because airplanes run over the area from time to time. That's why you've been turned down. These examples and many more show that we have a great responsibility to continue working with better and more appropriate rules and guidelines. It is the municipalities that own their land policy, that is, it is the municipalities that make the crucial decisions about how the land is to be used. Or it's almost like that. We still keep the municipalities in rather tight reins. The state has in several cases, via the county administrative boards, withdrawn detailed plans and made it more difficult in many ways. We can't have that. We need to give the municipalities more power on more of these issues. Many municipal politicians are frustrated that they can find a good real estate economy and developers but quite often get no from the state. Then we, the state, stand here and yell at the municipalities for not doing enough. I want to get a little more into the parts that I think are important, such as more buildable land. Among other things, noise regulations are important. We've reached an agreement with the government, we hope. With the knife on the throat, the government has promised to amend the regulation before the end of May. We assume that this will happen. There are developers who say that in an area of exploitation it could lead to between 20 and 30 percent more apartments. It also leads, of course, to cheaper apartments. We need to reform the systems of national interest. I meet many local politicians who are frustrated by unclear national interests that do not show in a good way what the state really wants. We also need to reform beach protection. Because it doesn't work. A review of the environmental code is also important, particularly as regards the rules on housekeeping. We have now seen a ruling on the construction of arable land outside the area of detailed planning, where the Mark and the Environmental Court of Appeal basically says "no". As far as building regulations are concerned, I and the Moderates think it would be appropriate for us to dare to take the step directly from the master plan to building permits. We could at least try certain areas. We could test the German regulations, which means that if you build as the environment you have to do it without a detailed plan. And you have to build if you build according to the state regulations. Direct building permits are applied for. Only from these examples do we hear that you can save quite a lot of time. Then we open up to more players and to smaller players. I think that would be important. We need short appeal proceedings. They build up frustration, in developers but also in municipalities. A little has been done. Me and the Moderates think it needs to be done more. But it was my alliance colleague, Tuve, inside. That's why I'm not going back into it. We also need to shorten the processing times of municipalities and authorities. We must set targets but also look at whether to reduce the fees for municipalities that work too slowly. We've written about that, and I guess I'll give you a little credit for the fact that it's now been investigated. I believe that much clearer instruments are also needed against state authorities. Private right of initiative should be introduced for detailed plans, at least before they have been removed. Then an exploiter can work with the questions in his purposeful way. That would be great. We know that more student housing is now being built. That's excellent. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the noise regulations for building in traffic-prone areas, which have already been implemented, have made it possible to build more student housing. I'm sure we can do even more there. We would also have to give Akademiska Hus an even clearer assignment. And we need to tell the municipalities that this is a priority task. It may take a maximum of nine months to develop a detailed plan for student housing. It is even more important that we continuously review all the regulations we have. After Peter Eriksson became Minister of Housing and after the housing policy talks we had, I can see that the government has taken on board many of the proposals that the Alliance brought into the talks. A few investigations have been initiated. But first, it takes insanely long time. And secondly, the government parties make many of the changes because you have the knife on your throat. You don't really like it. I have even heard someone say that it will only be more complicated for the municipalities if we constantly change regulations. However, I think it is our duty to constantly modernise and improve. It's extremely important. So we will look to the future and see what proposals are actually coming. If I am a little positive, I hope there will be a great deal. But when I'm on the possibly more pessimistic or realistic side, I'm worried it won't. One of the reasons for this is that the present government parties and the Left voted against most of the alliance government's simplification proposals when the Alliance was in power. Well, let's see if you've woken up and found that there's a need for improvement. Mrs. Old President! With this, I would like to ask for reservation 1 in the CU14 and for reservation 5 in the CU15. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations. But for time winning I do this way. I would also like, as Mr Lars did, to thank Mr Tuve for his excellent presidency during Caroline's absence. Thank you, Tuve!
i-ddffc01e6b485468-713	Mrs. Old President! Ewa Thalén Finné claims – as did Tuve Skånberg in his own way – that the government does nothing. That is, of course, an idea that one can have. But the government's proposals and the work that is going on, not least as an effect of the talks that came out of the 22-point programme that the government is working on, show something else. I would like to ask Ewa Thalén Finné about something I have read in the newspaper Hem & Hyra. This is something that Ewa Thalén Finné usually catches up with, of course, part of the government's policy. Lunds kommuns fastighetsbolag reports in Hem & Hyra that they have gone through all the projects that they have started since 2015 and calculated whether it is possible to reduce the rent, as an effect of the investment support that they now get for new productions. It is also reported that it has been possible to reduce the rent in its new portfolio by over 12 per cent. There is a long list in the newspaper of applications that have been received. At the same time, the Moderates and other parties within the Alliance have suggested that this autumn they should try to break out investment support from the state budget and remove it. Will the Alliance make this happen, Ewa Thalén Finné?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-717	Mrs. Old President! I'll start with the comment that the government is doing nothing. As I stated from the floor, in the area of housing policy, with the former Minister for Housing, we received a bill to the Swedish Parliament for two and a half years, if I exclude the budget proposals. Maybe there's not much to be said for. As I said, since we had the talks, the Secretary of Housing has nevertheless produced the 22-point list, and you work on it. But what I find tragic is that it takes forever. Many investigations have been set up in 2017. You presented this list in June 2016. It's been six months. Lars Eriksson then pointed out that there is a queue to receive an investment grant. Of course it is. I have never been in a situation where, when the government spends some of the taxpayers' money, it says no. If you can get free money, you accept it. It's not surprising, I think. In Lund the rent could be reduced by 12 percent – fine. But I think it is harmful in the long term that we are constantly doping a market that works very badly.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-721	Mrs. Old President! In a situation with a large housing shortage, with many looking for housing and many trying to enter the housing market, the state needs to use its room for manoeuvre to try to stimulate the construction of things that are needed and that would not otherwise be built. Then I'm talking about rentals for single people, young people and students. Ewa Thalén Finné points out that in some cases it has taken six months. But I remember that the bill you presented to Parliament on more housing for young people and students you presented in seven of your eight years of government. Then came the proposal for more housing for young people and students. It was then a matter of loosening rules such as lifts going up to the wind. That was the big idea. To say that it takes a few months for this government to come up with proposals actually limps a little. There are now companies that are prepared to build with investment support that can show that they are building in a way that enables those with lower incomes to rent. But you intend to remove this in the autumn. I don't know if I thought you were gonna do it. There are some different proposals within the Alliance, but the main track is at least that the investment grant should be removed.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-725	Mrs. Old President! There can always be a long discussion as to whether it is possible to build cheap, efficient rental apartments without state aid. I'm sure of it. There are examples where these aids are not built within the cost levels to which the investment aid amounts. But it's much harder and harder. You have to work hard to find the construction companies that want to build. One of the most obvious aspects of this is small construction companies that want to build smaller projects. They feel that they never get through and never get through. They don't get any detailed plans and no building permits. Waiting time will be, as it were, for ever. They say to me, and I assume that they will also say to you: we do not even understand the sums that the big companies are charging. We build at completely different prices. Of course there are lots of roads. But what has always and consistently been my strongest criticism of subsidies is that they had started to see a market that worked hard to find new and innovative ways to do things in a new way, but now they end up doing it. Why should you care if you still get the taxpayers' money?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-729	Mrs. Old President! Today we have a broad debate on housing policy, which contains many issues that affect many areas. Several of the proposals have already been discussed on several occasions in other debates. For those who listen and do not think it is something, it may be one of the reasons. We have put forward several proposals on which decisions will be taken today. They concern the possibility of housing, creating increased construction, long-term sustainability and security in residential areas. Above all, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a proposal that the Swedish Democrats have included in the report. This is an issue that is topical in the current housing crisis. Today there is a system in many municipalities with housing queues. You get in line to get access to a dwelling. You can stand in the housing queue for quite a long time before you get a dwelling. We also know that there are very many municipalities that make exceptions for asylum seekers, newly arrived immigrants and people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden. It is the municipalities themselves who choose to make exceptions and give priority to these people. But they can also be forced to do so on the basis of a court order. If you are going to be able to accept a job offer or a place of study at a college or university, if you have fallen in love and want to move in with a future partner, if you want to expand your family or if you want to leave home, it is absolutely crucial today to get a place to live. These are very important reasons for access to housing that so many other groups in society are asking for. That is also why we from the Swedish Democrats have put forward a proposal that means that people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden should not be able to make an exception in the housing queue. There should be equal opportunities for all in this area. Ethnicity or other background should not be used. At the end of 2015, there was a judgment from the Court of Appeal in which Hedemorabostäder AB was forced to continue renting out to the Migration Agency, which assigns a number of apartments to persons seeking asylum or who have been granted a residence permit. It is therefore a way of circumventing the housing queue and gaining priority for these homes. This is something that needs to be reviewed, according to the Swedish Democrats. These opportunities should not exist in today's Sweden. Furthermore, the report that is on the table today contains a great deal of proposals from the Swedish Democrats. We are talking, for example, about creating a safer police presence in the suburbs and about a national action plan for unsafe areas. These are issues that very much affect the security of residential areas. We want to create increased construction by reviewing the possibility of increased competition in the construction market. We want regional housing planning in order to strengthen the knowledge of municipalities in the area of housing planning. In order to create long-term sustainability, we have proposed a housing and infrastructure preparation. We also want to review housing funding and investigate how both young and other groups will have the opportunity to own their own housing. For time winning, Madam Old President, I choose to claim approval only for two reservations. In CU14 it is reservati on 7, in CU15 it is reservation 26.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-738	Mrs. Old President! I guess I'm not known for being so long-lined-- long-striped, I mean, of course, but it's not that long lines in my script either – in this speaker's chair. Today, however, I am actually going to stand here a little longer than usual, especially because my committee colleagues have also decided to do so. Then I'll be a little excited to challenge. At the moment a record lot is being built in Sweden, in many places in fact more than has been the case in 40 years. This is necessary in order for us to solve the housing shortage that exists. But we must ensure that what is being built is good and that those outside the housing market can afford to demand what is being built. Our responsibility as politicians is to ensure that good housing is built, because what we are building today will also work well in 50 years, preferably even in 100 years. It is therefore of great importance that resources are spent on good planning, both by the design of the dwelling and by its location. Architects and social planners have a crucial role to play at the stage we are in right now. We're not just building houses. We build communities. Already with today's regulations, municipalities have tools to create good living environments for their residents. But I'm sure there are things we need to review and change to make planning better, clearer, simpler and perhaps more predictable. We face two major challenges. We need to ensure that housing is built throughout the country that people can afford to live in. We must also ensure that what is being built is good for the long term. In order to be able to build across the country, a review of the funding is required. There are a number of motions on this, but it is also the case that the government has set up an investigation to review the credit guarantee system and government loans for housing construction. There we agree with some of the parties who have exercised in this area. Mrs. Old President! That people should be forced to adapt to what is noisy instead of the other way round is wrong. Unfortunately, it is sometimes where the debate on housing policy ends. Instead of talking about how we lower the noise at the source to create better habitats and more buildable land, the debate has come to be about how much noise people should tolerate. The government, which also includes the Green Party, has now reached an agreement with the bourgeois parties on new noise regulations. The reason, as we have also heard here before, is that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, have a number of announcements in this area and are now forcing increased levels of traffic noise in housing construction. I and the Green Party would have liked the debate to have been more about how to reduce noise, not about noise requirements. In fact, human health is more important than broad roads and high speeds. Studies show that noise can lead to problems with sleep, stress, high blood pressure and increased risk of cardiovascular disease. At the same time, it does not require particularly complex measures to reduce noise levels. These may be new types of tyres or speed reductions. If the speed is reduced from 60 to 50 kilometres per hour, it can result in a noise reduction of a total of four decibels, which is a significant difference. Reducing speeds is therefore one of many good practices to make land more buildable and at the same time improve public health. On the plus side, it can also be counted that air quality is improved by reducing the emissions of toxic particles. Trucks are also a major source of noise, but we can do that by moving goods from road to rail and shipping. It is often said that it is also noisy from the railways, and it is. But there are many technical solutions that we can choose to use, so that this can be addressed. Deteriorated noise requirements result in worse living environments. We are not going to change the indoor noise requirements, so nobody needs to be worried about that, and I am glad that this debate is not taking place, because the indoor environment must be preserved. But the living environment is deteriorating. In addition, it is likely to lead to only marginally more housing. The debate blinds us from the important issue of noise itself. We must build societies that revolve around man and where the planning assumes that it is we who should move, not the car. The Civil Affairs Committee recently organised a hearing on increased levels of traffic noise associated with housing construction. Representatives of municipalities and authorities, as well as representatives of both construction companies and residents, had been invited. The municipalities almost unequivocally testified that it was the application of the acquis that was complicated. The authorities stressed the risks to public health and that no more housing is likely to be built. Then it became quite clear. When representatives of residents made their speeches, they did not want higher noise levels. But the representatives of those who build – and who, of course, want to build more – wanted increased noise levels. In any case, there will be three noise regulations in place before the summer. This is unlikely to lead to the construction of very many new homes that would otherwise not have been built. It will probably not help the municipalities, but rather will make it even more messy. But at least the political majority in parliament got what it wanted. Mrs. Old President! I have now come to the two announcements contained in the report. The first is that the Riksdag believes that the Government should continue its work on simplifying the Planning and Construction Act. We share the opinion of the motionaries that the work on reforming the Planning and Construction Act must continue. This is particularly true in view of the acute housing shortage in large parts of the country. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the 22-point programme drawn up by the government and to the fact that the government is actively working in this area. For example, the government decided in March this year on a bill for more steps for a simpler planning and construction law. There, the Government makes proposals aimed at making the planning process more efficient and at freeing more measures from building permits. Recently, the government also decided to commission Boverket to investigate whether even more measures can be exempted from building permits. In the announcement, it appears that it has not read what the government is actually doing in this area. The second announcement concerns reduced accessibility requirements for student housing. This is a small matter of heart that I have talked about quite a lot in this House. For me, students are not a homogeneous group. Not all students are young, healthy and strong. Students can be older and disabled and have children. Students are not a group that can withstand more than any other group. Students are just like you and me – very different. The only thing students have in common is that their employment is studying. In addition, students' housing is also usually their workplace. It should also be pointed out in this connection that the Boverket actually, on behalf of the former bourgeois government, investigated this particular issue and concluded that this is unlikely to reduce costs very much and will most likely not make it easier to build, but rather more complicated, as the regulations become different. It must also be taken into account that today we are not governing the form of tenure with our legislation, which means that we cannot guarantee that the housing is inhabited by students forever, if we now believe that students should live in a different way from any other group in society. We believe that the starting point for all new homes should be that they should be accessible and useful to everyone. That is why I am in favour of reservation 20 in the CU15 report. Mrs. Old President! The greatest challenge of our time is climate change. There are estimates that show that the total climate impact from the construction process in Sweden amounts to about 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. These emissions are the same as those of all passenger cars. That is why I believe that the construction industry must also assume its climate responsibility. It does not do so today to the extent and at the pace needed, and then policy needs to point the way. The easiest way to switch the construction sector is about the choice of materials. Choosing wood is climate smart from three aspects. Wood is a renewable raw material that we can easily plant and let grow up again. Wood binds carbon dioxide. Wood is also available locally and creates jobs locally. The fact that wood is a lighter material makes transport easier, which also reduces emissions. Wood is also something that people find positive to have as a building material in their home. Large-scale construction of wood would reduce emissions while contributing to an even stronger forest industry and a more vibrant countryside. The second part of climate-smart construction is about community planning. I was a little into it at the beginning but will repeat a few things. Here it is important that, when we are planning new and re-planning, we have to plan for man. We must plan our societies in order for people to live, operate and move there. Boverket has therefore been commissioned to investigate the conditions and submit proposals for measures within the framework of the construction process, according to which the Planning and Construction Act will steer towards a more sustainable use of sustainable materials in order to achieve reduced climate impact. With that, I choose to conclude my speech.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-757	Mrs. Old President! I asked for the floor to reply when Emma Hult came to the noise issue. What worries me is that it is an agreement that the government and the government minister, housing minister Peter Eriksson, made with the alliance parties that were invited. One can talk about the subject matter, and then talk about how to make an agreement and then stand for it. Let me first say something about the substance of the matter. Regulation 2015:216 on traffic noise in residential buildings states: 55 dBA equivalent sound level in the facade of a residential building. This agreement increases this to 60 decibels. By comparison, I can say that in the overnight apartment that I have lived in – and I have now lived for a while in Stockholm, 22 years carefully calculated – I measured the facade on the outside, when you open the window and keep the noise meter outside, 80 decibels at night. Here is in new construction 60 decibels. That is the level we are talking about. It's a payoff from 55 to 60 decibels. Me and many others in the big cities live with considerably more than 60, live well, live centrally, and do not sleep poorly at night. Indoors are the levels in my fal l 40 but according to construction standards 30 decibels. I'll sleep well in that. What, then, is the problem purely factual, Emma Hult?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-760	Mrs. Old President! It was exciting. What I was trying to point out was: why are we talking about raising noise levels and not reducing noise at source? That is what the whole point I was talking about is about. Why should we talk about how much noise people should have to bear instead of trying to fix what is noisy? That's a better way to see the problem. It was my attempt to take the next step in the debate. What we need to do is to reduce the noise from the noise. If there are more vehicles, there will be even more noise.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-761	Mrs. Old President! If that's what we're talking about, we're not fighting. Of course, I and certainly the majority in this House think that it is better the quieter it is, that trams, railways and so on are shielding the sound, that you have road surfaces and tyres that are as noiseless as possible. It's no problem. Here we are talking about the margins. Right now I am speaking in more than 60 decibels. So it's no worse than that. I have measured it several times in debates in similar areas. We're talking about pretty modest levels. If you are able to have traffic at all in an inner city, you get up to 60 decibels. We can't live in a city without traffic on the streets. Is that what the Green Party is really after? The second question I have is that I find it difficult to hear Emma Hult oppose her own government, against her own minister and against an agreement that we made. I don't think that's good. I understand the ambition to speak in favour of reducing noise. I share it. But if you stand for an agreement, you do not take it up in this House and say that you have been forced to do it, you stand for it. Is Emma Hult willing to make a deal?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-764	Mrs. Old President! The fact that Tuve Skånberg raises his voice to illustrate how much the decibels would be on the outside of the facades of newly built homes says a lot about this debate. I still do not understand why we stand and talk about how much noise a person should have to endure. The residents influence to some extent whether they drive vehicles or affect other things outside their home. There's a difference between 50 and 60 decibels, but I'll let the expertise speak for that. I'm a politician. I'm not a trained acoustician. Tuve Skånberg mentions the apartment he has for overnight stay here in Stockholm. It's an existing house. These rules apply to new production. My ambition is that what we build will be as good as possible in the long term. This is not about existing buildings. It's about new production. I mentioned a number of examples of how we could build on these sites by reducing noise at the source. There are a number of measures that we could do. That is what I want the debate to be about. That's where we're going to make the stakes. Tuve Skånberg doesn't have to be worried. The government will deliver according to the agreement we have made. You don't have to worry about that. But if one year I stand and say I'm against and next year say I'm in favour, then I can't look myself in the mirror.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-769	Mrs. Old President! I, too, reacted a little to Emma Hult's claims about noise. First of all, I want to say an incredibly important thing. If, from the beginning of autumn 2015, the government had put the noise levels at the level of which a regulation is now to come, we would not have had three detailed plans with different noise regulations. Then we would only have had two and would not have had this discussion at present. I have been discussing the issue of noise for years. It is very interesting from a number of points of view. A lot of people I know want to live in the city. They want to live near the subway and near the bus. They want to live where things happen. It's also an age question, absolutely. They like the pulse and life. It has been experienced as very difficult to build in those situations. It's a dilemma. That's why we need to work on the regulations to make it possible to live in areas where people are willing to pay the most. I totally agree with Emma Hult that we should work with noise at the source. In my world, we have 20 years or so, hopefully, just electric cars. They'll only sound if we add a sound. Of course, that's the way we're going. But we are not going to get there for the next two years.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-773	Mrs. Old President! I would first like to say that it is not just the engine in the car that sounds, but above all the friction from the tyres on the ground that sounds. It increases a lot when you speed up. That's also why I was on speed limits. As Ewa Thalén Finné says, the government also saw this challenge. After some if and but, you might say, a noise regulation was tabled. They had then listened to the criticism of referrals and the expertise. But politics wanted something else, and that is why we are discussing this again today. There is a noise regulation, but with some other benchmarks than those that the majority in this House wanted. Now that I asked for a reply, Ewa Thalén Finné, I must say that I was a little upset when you spoke about the arable land. For me, it goes without saying that we should not build houses on the farmland. We will grow on the arable land as much as possible. The arable land we have cannot be restored once we have chosen to exploit it. I know it is difficult to find other land in some parts of Sweden, but in the first place we will grow on the arable land and not build houses on it. If Ewa Thalén Finné experiences it as such a big problem, I get a little scared. The food supply we need in Sweden in the future will be safe.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-776	Mrs. Old President! Perhaps we will discuss the noise issue much more. I will go into what I highlighted in my speech on the arable land. There are many aspects to this. My constituency is southern Skåne. In principle, there is only arable land or land planned in detail. So if you want to build, and if you want to build a lot, you have to take arable land to do this. All the municipalities and all the rulers in southern Skåne are incredibly frustrated that the state goes in and stops detailed plans. We're gonna plan smart, we're gonna seal, we're gonna build on the height, and I'm for all that! But sometimes new areas may also have to be used. What I really want is what has now come up with two judgments in the Land and Environment Court. I will highlight one issue. It's about a farmer who has land. It is arable land that is currently pasture and that has no incredibly high value. He wanted to build a house there to be able to have another person working on the farm. There, the Land and the Environment Court has concluded that when it comes to construction outside a planned area, it can never be weighed over so that you can build on that kind of land. My concern is about how we can have a living countryside if you can't even build one or two houses on your farm. Should you commute to agriculture? I don't know if I believe that.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-780	Mrs. Old President! I am not familiar with this court order, so I have a little difficulty commenting on it. But of course I, too, may find it strange that you could not build a small house on your property. What I object to when Ewa Thalén Finné says that you should build on the arable land is about these villa carpets that are rolled out in virtually all southern Skåne. As you can hear, from my dialect, I also come from southern Skåne – the same constituency as Ewa Thalén Finné. I grew up in Trelleborg City. There it is now being built, thank you very much, rents. And it is not on arable land, but in the middle of the city in a large old industrial area where for many years it has not been built but has just stood still. There is land to build on even in southern Skåne that is not arable land. Above all, there is a lot of land in Skåne that right now belongs to the car. That is something we are talking about rather little. I would like to see a development in which we look at how to turn the cities into less car dependence and accommodate more people. Then there will also be a lot of space released where we will be able to densify. I would like to object to the fact that only arable land can be built in southern Skåne. I find that attitude boring.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-783	Mrs. Old President! You can't live in a prognosis. I admit that I have stolen the quotation from the ordinary chairman of the Christian Democrats, Caroline Szyber. I would also like to take this opportunity to join in the tributes and thanks to Tuve Skånberg. Caroline usually says that no one can live in a detailed plan. It's true. Nor is the fact that a planning process is in progress a guarantee that any housing will ever be built there. It doesn't even help that it's been accepted. It does not even help that the building permits included in the detailed plan have been granted; it can still be stopped or delayed by appeals. Well, says friend of order, forecasts are still almost real! I have read that the Central Statistical Office estimates that 63,100 dwellings were started last year. Some of them will probably be ready this year, 2017. However, even if forecasts show that we should have some 60 000 new homes ready in 2016, this is not enough either. If you compare it to what it should be according to Boverket, it is 20 000 homes too little. And one should compare, because for many years the lack of housing has been mentioned. For some years it has also been numbered by Boverket. According to Boverket, 710 000 additional dwellings are needed until 2025. 240 of the country's 290 municipalities report a lack of housing. The interesting thing, Emma Hult and Lars Eriksson, is not the number, the numerary, of dwellings that are forecasted. Rather, it is what is being built, where it is built and for whom we build housing. You cannot accuse the government, not even this government, of sitting passively. On the other hand, one can criticise it for ineffective measures, slowness and misplaced support and for not being ambitious enough to simplify the rules. After all, we were forced, as we have heard before, to pass through the new noise guidelines. But now they are welcomed by many. The housing shortage is now taken seriously by all parties in the Riksdag except possibly by one. In that party, there is no ambition to ensure that those who cannot demand a dwelling because they lack wealth or a fixed income from work or have spent the obligatory time in the queue of housing to public utility rentals should be able to get somewhere to live. The Swedish Democrats are opposed to any measures that can in any way resolve the housing situation of those in the most pressing need. Instead, there is much talk about the preservation of cultural environments and what they call traditional construction – whatever it may be. We have enough protection, Madam President of the Age, of cultural environments and various forms of preservation that hinder housing construction and the necessary renovation and renovation with modern and appropriate accessibility standards in older homes. But there is therefore a party that wants to put another wet blanket over Sweden and prevent small municipalities from growing with the help of more and easier housing for all those who need it. Over the years, they have opposed the Alliance's proposals which would greatly simplify the decision of the municipalities on new plans and make it possible to amend old and already implemented plans that have reached the end of the implementation period. We wonder why, and Roger Hedlund will be happy to explain this from here the speaker's seat later. How come you are opposed to these obvious simplifications of the rules for the municipalities? A few years ago we had housing policy talks with the government. Regrettably, it became the level of ambition of the Left Party that set the bar when we were trying to reach some kind of cross-block agreement. Instead of dealing seriously with things that would increase the availability of rental rights, the Left Party wants to make it more difficult to build, own and manage housing. We can see that the greater the influence of the Left Party in housing policy, the worse it is for the right to rent, because they prefer to look at those who are privileged with a dwelling rather than those who are outside and need a home. Mrs. Old President! The government parties deserve criticism but also some appreciation for the fact that they finally listen to the Riksdag and implement the policy that we have decided on and set up investigations and commissions. I haven't counted very carefully, but maybe Stefan Attefall's record of 55 investigations and assignments is about to be beaten. This report answers most of it with reference to any investigation or something that has been buried – excuse me, prepared – in the Government Office. Reference is made to the list of 22 proposals. I would like to remind myself that the previous government's investigations and missions led to 110 proposals that have been decided here in Parliament. However, individual proposals are not important here. Housing policy needs to be fundamentally reformed, and conditions must be given to construction companies to ensure that housing is built throughout the country so that more of those who are not currently in a position to ask for housing are in a financial position to do so. What I have learned during my tour in different municipalities in the country that has now been going on for six years is that Sweden is about to split. It is a labour market that does not offer access to those who lack education, do not master the language and have been unemployed for a long time. But the division, the cleavage, is also regional. This is particularly evident when it comes to housing investment. It is mostly built for those who can afford it, in large cities and in the central cities of growth municipalities, but not very much in small municipalities or outside urban areas. At the same time, I know that there is a need for housing and demand there too, but low market values and tough write-down requirements from housing companies' auditors make it impossible to count up a housing investment in many of the country's municipalities. The reason for this is that the value of the dwelling falls below what it has cost to build it as soon as it is finished. And even if it is profitable in the long term and you know that you get tenants into these homes, it is not accepted as an explanation by the banks, but they refuse to grant loans under those conditions. To get a place to live, Madam President, the migration laser must go from the inland to the coasts, from the countryside to the growth regions. Migration policy is a thing of the past. We don't want to see that again. When, in our budget exercise presented today, we propose that those who move to a rural municipality should have their student debt written off by 10 per cent annually after completing studies, it is because we want to retain the competence of small towns and small municipalities. We want municipalities such as Svenljunga, Tingsryd, Arvidsjaur, Sala and Lessebo to be able to recruit plan architects so that the municipal council there can have current housing supply programmes and overview plans to decide on. It is necessary to be able to get the notorious build bonus. The Center Party had the parliamentary investigation service look at how the 3.6 annual billion in building bonuses have been distributed among the municipalities that are allowed to take part of them and how the money is then used. In my own county of Halland, five out of six municipalities shared a total of 80 million in building bonuses. The municipality that would have needed the most and has the smallest population and the largest share of new arrivals relative to the number of inhabitants is Hylte municipality. They got nothing. My own municipality Kungsbacka's if for many years has built 500-600 homes received 15 million because we continued with it just as we have always done. We have built on the land available to those who can afford to ask for the homes. That's the pattern. Money is paid out to those who would have built anyway. Of the SEK 1.85 billion in 2016, it has become slightly less than 50,000 homes, and 100 per cent of these were decided when the aid was paid out. The municipalities that will benefit from the 2016 contribution have used it to strengthen the results. In several cases, it has generated additional surpluses in the financial statements that can be used, for example, to pay off loans or write down pension liabilities. The investment aid is as misdirected as the construction bonus. The Center Party, like the Moderates and the other alliance parties, is generally critical of the doping of that kind. The aid is designed to be paid if the standard rent per square metre of dwelling area is less than SEK 1,300. Mrs. Old President! It is a level that it is hard when impossible to build for in what Boverket calls the rest of the country. As a result, small municipalities with a common interest with small resources and a small stock are not able to build even with investment aid. The government's housing subsidies thus contribute to increasing the split, not to reducing it. Instead, the Center Party wants to make it easier for those who build for rent in parts of the country where it is difficult to obtain capital through the banks and where expectations of property values are low because it is unable to do the impairment that the auditors usually require immediately after the property has been completed and ready for occupancy. It is also about credit guarantees, which Tuve Skånberg was in on, and we have a reservation together with the Christian Democrats on this. In our special opinion in the CU14, we also mention the need for a targeted housing saving especially for young people. Mrs. Old President! I visited some building materials dealers on Monday. What I then heard from them is that many small construction companies are now being sucked up by large construction projects in the big cities. It pays better, and you don't have to look up the customers yourself. Examples were given of how it has a negative impact on the trade in building materials when these small businesses no longer buy the material themselves from them. It is a dangerous development because the small operators, these small construction companies, are disappearing and the skills to build housing are drawn to the cities. The property owner or homeowner who wants a ROT job done, an extension or a renovation remains, without a builder wanting to take it on. There is a risk that undeclared work will come back in the construction industry, and we do not want that. The regulatory simplifications must therefore be more far-reaching in rural areas. The costs there are higher from the outset and even higher if a kilometre tax on road transport were to be introduced. We have highlighted some examples in our exercise here. We think that we should broaden our view of what is considered to be economic activity in rural areas and make extensions that are not only related to the agricultural activity granted building permits. Of course, we want to see simpler beach protection rules, and we want it to be possible to build more without requiring a new detailed plan if you build outside urban areas and a planned area. We want freer off-plane provisions, and those proposals come together under reservation 16 of the CU15 from the Moderates and the Center Party. As has been said before, one of the reasons why more housing is needed is that many people in asylum homes need to get out of there after a long and uncertain wait. A home with an address opens up opportunities to learn Swedish and get an education with a job. People who have been granted a residence permit want to reunite with their family but are forced to live apart in different places like hostels and the like. Consider these people as a resource and make extra efforts to obtain housing that can be the start of a housing career and a start in the country as new Swedes. The Center Party, together with the Moderates, has reserved for the temporary building permit rules that have already been adopted but expire in 2023 to be permanent so that the requirement for such a building permit to be granted is no longer that the need should be demonstrated to be temporary, but that it should be possible to restore the location as it was before. That is a better rule, and the Center Party does not see the reason for returning to the previous order. Another way of facilitating access to an apartment is to make use of existing municipal rent guarantees, which are supported by a small state contribution to the municipality offering guarantees through Boverket so that a low-income tenant can receive a first-hand contract. As the aid exists but is paid only to a very small extent, we believe that it must be changed so that these 43 million committed are used and useful. That is what we are calling for, Madam President-in-Office, in reservation 8 of the CU14 report. Mrs. Old President! There is much more to say about our demands for a more local housing policy that helps to counter the split we see between small and large municipalities, between cities and rural areas and between those who have and those who do not have jobs or housing. There is a need for more regulatory simplification within the Plan and Construction Act. There is a need for shorter appeal periods and fewer bodies to appeal to. There is a need for a holistic approach in which we highlight all factors that can promote or discourage construction. It can be national interests, beach protection or taxes and charges on housing, business and work. This may be the cost situation in the building materials sector, on which most seem to agree is too high. These could be measures that promote mobility within the housing market and stimulate public utilities and private hosts to produce and renovate rental rights. The renting deserves a speech of its own, but we will take that on the subject of rental law and more that will come later. Many have said that it was unfortunate that the housing policy talks did not lead anywhere, other than to a harmless 22-point list that is now being talked about less and less. There's going to be a new city somewhere; it's one of the points. I have been to Kiruna, where there is such work going on now that the mine needs to use more land. I'm not impressed. If there are to be any real reforms for housing, a broader allocation is needed where it is not the one who wants the least to set the limits for what is to be discussed. There is a need for a new government and a policy for the whole of Sweden also in terms of housing.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-815	Mrs. Old President! It felt like a little vague questions there, but I was asked why we have not supported a series of measures that could speed up construction. If I interpret it correctly, let's see if that's the case. On the table today there are a number of proposals in which the Alliance agrees on a number of issues. The problem is that many of the proposals have already been announced to the government, and several of them are already being investigated by the government. It seems quite pointless to send another announcement to the government about these questions before there is an answer about where the investigations have been made. Furthermore, it is believed that we have prevented – or not supported – a series of proposals that will lead to more housing being built. We have previously discussed, among other things, fixed-term building permits. There we have explained that we believe that this will lead to greater problems rather than creating more housing. Among other things, we already have major problems with exclusion areas where the police find it difficult to act. Then we in the Swedish Democrats think it is wrong to create even more exclusion areas, which we believe means allowing temporary building permits of up to 15 years. There will be more alienation areas. So, on the part of the Swedish Democrats, we have found no reason to support the proposals of the Alliance in this report, given that they are already being investigated by the government.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-820	Mrs. Old President! The reason why I attacked the Swedish Democrats and Roger Hedlund is that in his speech we received very little information about what the Swedish Democrats actually have for housing policy. We note that the Swedish Democrats are also counteracting the ambitions that existed to make a temporary law on fixed-term building permits, which extends the time to normally reach 15 years and changes the regulations in such a way that it is the restoration of the land and not the temporary need that determines whether such a building permit should be granted. Mrs. Old President! The whole point of my reasoning on this is that we need different forms of housing and surely will need it for a very long time. It is the case that population forecasts can be changed. The pattern of escape may change. Housing may be needed for a limited period of time for a variety of reasons. Not being in favour of the kind of simplification that gives municipalities the possibility of a more flexible housing policy is something that I think one should be able to question. What I then called for was what we have been discussing for a long time, where the Alliance has had a joint reservation. It is about easier adoption of detailed plans by the municipalities. We cannot understand why the Swedish Democrats do not support this when it also means increased opportunities for municipalities to make changes in an old and outdated plan area where there needs to be densifications and environmental improvements, built on one floor, installed lifts for accessibility and so on. Today, this calls for a new planning process to be launched. I cannot understand what the problem is with such a reform.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-824	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Ola Johansson, for your questions about our housing policy! As I mentioned earlier, we have discussed several of the issues in these reports in previous debates. To discuss them one more time felt a little irrelevant at this point. That is why we chose instead to highlight new issues in the report, such as the need for municipalities to give priority to newly arrived immigrants. This is something that Ola Johansson seems to think is a very good proposal but that would put sticks in the wheels for everyone else who is waiting for a home and an opportunity to take a job and move away from home. Regarding the Swedish Democrats' housing policy, I think we have given quite a lot of it. It is difficult to present all the proposals here in perhaps two minutes on a board. On the other hand, it would be interesting to hear from Ola Johansson, Madam President-in-Office, how one thought about forward planning before creating this housing crisis. With the extremely high level of immigration into Sweden, one might have been able to look at whether there was housing for all these newly arrived immigrants before creating the opportunity to come to Sweden. Where was the foresight in that area? It is a question that I have asked many times in this House but never received a really concrete answer to. Priority is extremely important, especially in the area of housing policy. When it comes to detailed plans that have expired and that you want to be able to go in and make changes after the end of the detailed plan, we think it is important that from the beginning you plan not to go into a detailed plan at a later stage. It is important to have a broad overview of how to plan society instead of having another body go in and run afterwards.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-829	Mrs. Old President! Then let us, Roger Hedlund, play with the idea that all people who have permission and the right to live in Sweden as citizens have equal rights. I understand that that way of thinking is alien to you, but let's play with that thought. Surely, if you have that right, you also have the right to get in line with all other people and become part of the mass of people who do not have housing because suitable housing is not being built throughout the country. That is what is at the heart of my speech: a new policy, another policy, a policy that creates better conditions for more municipalities to build more and in other ways. It is against this background that we see the mix of different types of credit guarantees, housing saving for young people and changing rent guarantees being used for real. After all, all households with low income are entitled to some form of rent guarantee if the municipality has set up such a system. It's the money that's not being used. Then let's play with the idea that everyone has equal rights to take part in this. As far as the view of detailed plans is concerned, it is my suspicion and has always been that the Swedish Democrats have not understood this question. This could be a detailed plan that has a history since the 50's or 60's. If there is a detailed plan adopted, it will apply until a new detailed plan is drawn up for that area. The only thing we want – and we don't think it's so strange – is to have the opportunity to start a process to make minor changes to the detailed plan so that the area becomes better and nicer for people to move to and live in, without having to start a long detailed planning process. We know what that means in terms of length of time.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-834	Mrs. Old President! I think that Ola Johansson's speech was very important and very interesting. Maybe I'll take it a little bit now... a little bit old, too. There were some things I reacted to. Ola mentioned, among other things, that the discussion should not only be about the construction but also about who. I thought that was interesting. Such a group may, for example, be young and students. I quickly looked through the list of those who applied for investment aid to build student housing. I found municipalities such as Örebro, Perstorp, Lund and Kalmar, and also Stockholm County and others, which are now building student housing to gain access to investment aid. Ola Johansson has, I think, a slightly incorrect picture of how it happened when the municipalities received the building bonus. It wasn't that they just got a build bonus, but they were allowed to apply; it was an active act. A number of criteria would have been met: you would have received new arrivals, you would have started or built housing, you would have a master plan and you would have a housing supply plan. This has triggered a feverish activity in many municipalities. There will be many more who will be able to do this next time, because several municipalities that have a heavy construction have actually not even been able to apply because they have not met all the criteria.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-840	Mrs. Old President! It is interesting that Lars Eriksson lifts the student housing when I actually bring a press release from the Student Housing Companies, with the title Few student housing companies will use the investment support. The majority of those who complete student housing from 2017 onwards indicate that they will not make use of the investment support. This is shown by a survey conducted by the trade association Student Housing Companies. So these are the alternative facts presented by Lars Eriksson in the debate, and I find that difficult. As we have done for many years, to work for, for example, what I am sure Emma Hult will address in the debate, the perception of noise benchmarks and the possibilities of building tighter and more suitable housing for students is one way. Then it is also a question of getting a better functioning housing market in general, where students may not only be referring to student housing but, for example, can rent a home in second place. We have increased the amount of the tax-free rental from previous 20 000 to 40 000 SEK. That's one way. There are many ways to solve the student housing issue, which is not just about building explicit student housing. If I have a few seconds left, Madam President, I cannot help but highlight which municipalities have received the most in the form of building bonuses. It is the large cities and the growth municipalities that I told you about earlier, where it is already being built and planned. Most municipalities accept new arrivals, but not everyone has built housing or has current housing supply programmes or outline plans. They have not used it for many years. That's the truth, and that's why they don't get these bonuses. These are completely misdirected bets! They only go to big cities and growth regions, which would have built anyway.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-846	Mrs. Old President! Ola Johansson beats far and wide but has very few own, concrete proposals. This government has put forward proposals. I do not know what the alternative facts are, but there are lists of the municipalities where students have actually applied to build student housing. I listed a number of them. The former government presented a bill, More housing for young people and students, dealing with reliefs for elevators and exemptions from the rule of elevators up to lofts. It was the great bill; you even gave it a colour cover to make it look as though it was capable of action. What was highlighted in this House as a major reform was also the one that was given the name of the former minister, Attefallsreform. Just a few years ago, alliance representatives stood here in the speaker's chair and said that tens of thousands, perhaps up to 80 000, Attefallshus would be built. There, young people and students would settle down and start their housing career. That is the argument you had, and the question is how this went. Will there be any Attefallshus, where the young and students will put their first nests? If you scan the country, you can see that there's a little more to wish for on that front. Nevertheless, this government has put forward a proposal for investment aid, which should also apply to housing for young people and students. I have listed a number of municipalities, and I can also refer to a list of the municipalities that have applied for this. It also indicates whether it should go to student housing or rental apartments. I therefore think that the common rhetoric of the good Ola Johansson is, in fact, a little misplaced. This government has seen these problems and, I think, takes them seriously with measures that are taking place in the present.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-853	Mrs. Old President! The report on Attefallshusen contained more proposals. It was about other regulatory simplifications – the possibility of building roof cups and doing smaller renovations – plus the possibility of building a 25 square meter house that can be used for residential purposes. I mentioned in my main speech that there were 110 concrete proposals for positions. What Lars Eriksson mentions is one or possibly two of these proposals. So there are a lot of proposals, but Lars Eriksson can probably not blame me for being the one who issued these opinions, with great expectations of the reform of Attefallshus. On the other hand, I see that it creates opportunities for those who want to. Now, the regulatory framework that surrounds this reform has become such that it is a high threshold for many. I would like the government to either withdraw such a popular reform or create better conditions for the reform to take effect. As far as student housing is concerned, I say, as Ewa Thalén Finné said in her speech: who rejects government money? The problem is when student housing companies or utility housing companies are made dependent on investment aid and a doped housing market is created. This is not a desirable situation. I would like to see us abolish investment aid. But if Lars Eriksson insists on maintaining it, I would like him to admit that it is misplaced, that there are lots of municipalities that cannot be built in such a way that you can assimilate the investment support and that it is perhaps in those municipalities that the support – if it is to remain – would have been needed most.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-858	Mrs. Old President! No, Ola Johansson, I would not actually continue to talk about noise, if you do not very much want to talk about just how we are going to reduce it at source, which has been my clear position in this debate. I would like to start by saying that I also think your speech was good. It felt like there was speed in you today, and that's great to hear. But in your first line to Lars Eriksson, you claimed that he was using alternative facts. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that this is an argument that we should perhaps use with caution and when it really is about alternative facts. Lars Eriksson brought Hem & Hyra's article, which lists a number of companies to build student housing. But let me come to my first question. Right at the beginning of your speech, Ola Johansson, you said that housing policy should be fundamentally reformed. Then you listed a lot of things, like for me the usual. I wonder what it is that Ola Johansson wants to reform fundamentally. I suppose these are new proposals and not what you usually suggest.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-861	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Emma Hult, for the opportunity to discuss issues that I do not see in this report, but which are about how we can achieve increased incentives for new leases in particular and also create opportunities for greater mobility in the housing market. As I was aware, there are projections that say that there are 710 000 homes that would need to be added. I am not sure that all these homes must be built, but a large part of the potential that exists in the country is untapped housing, which today is inhabited by people who might be better off in a different type of housing than the one they actually live in. It is also a question of reviewing taxes that surround not only housing but also capital and labour. A major tax reform affecting the residential area is something that the Center Party and many others in the debate are talking about the need for us. I do not want to go into the content of it, but removing taxes that hamper mobility in the housing market is an important reform that we have been talking about for a long time. The second issue, which I chose not to raise but a little in passing, is the view on renting. We have a poorly functioning housing market. Many people accuse us of wanting to introduce market rents. That's not true. We want to reform renting in such a way that we have a better functioning housing market. In a housing market that works, where there is a balance between supply and demand, we do not need to regulate renting in the way we do today. I think it would have been positive if the government and the various housing ministers who invited to housing policy talks had dared to let go of the edge and also discuss such things, which had made a decisive difference for the future.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-866	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Ola Johansson, for the answers! All right, so it was not in this report that you were going to fundamentally reform housing policy. Nevertheless, I was a little curious about such a clear position in your speech. I think there were more than just the Minister for Housing who needed to let go of the edge. If you are going to do things like this, they also need to be financed, and you were not really interested in discussing it either. But perhaps we should take these issues when we discuss the budget report, because perhaps it is more appropriate there. I also have another idea. Ola Johansson says that the building bonus only went to big cities and growth regions. Krokom, Aneby, Gnosjö, Jokkmokk and many more have taken a very big responsibility to take care of new arrivals and asylum seekers during the challenge that Sweden has faced. They also choose to build homes and apparently had an updated master plan and housing supply programme, and they have been given access to the money. I'm guessing you don't mean that these are big cities or growth regions, although certainly some of the residents would like to see their municipality that way. How does Ola Johansson want us to motivate municipalities to comply with the law? According to the Act, you must have an updated master plan and an updated housing supply programme. I think it's a great tool to give a carrot, so that the municipalities do what they should and also make sure that more housing is built. Does Ola Johansson not think so, too, or how does Ola Johansson want us to motivate municipalities to have an updated master plan, a housing supply programme, building housing and receiving new arrivals?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-869	Mrs. Old President! Observing the law is not something you should encourage by paying money. It's like you'd pay a thief to keep him from stealing. It is a strange logic, in which case it is used. In Stockholm County, twelve municipalities have received a building bonus. I have also noticed that there is a mix of municipalities, but the absolute majority and the large sums end up in the large municipalities – in growth municipalities and municipalities where the ambition is to have housing supply programmes and overview plans right from the start. It must be there because it has already been planned to build and expand in the past. It can have many different reasons. The situation can mean that you have expectations of an increased migration. This means that municipalities have developed such plans. But if the ambition is that small municipalities that do not have these conditions and that have a tough burden with many new arrivals while not having the advantage of being able to attract the knowledge and skills that it means having planarchists employees should get part of these billions, I think that this support is also misplaced. Instead of creating better conditions for housing construction throughout the country, it helps to increase the split, since there is a distinction between municipalities that have and municipalities that do not. I want Sweden to overcome this cleavage. This is a very clear message in the Center Party's budget motion, which was presented today.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-872	Mrs. Old President! We are debating the CU14 and CU15 reports today, housing policy and planning and construction. Of course, I support all the Left Party's motions, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 4 in the CU14 and reservation 18 in the CU15. It's been a long time since this many homes were built. Now all we have to do is make sure it lasts over time, my friends! We will have to build many more rental apartments that people can actually afford. We cannot continue to have rental and price levels that are not linked to people's wage developments. I myself remember the sense of freedom it meant to put the key in the lock on my very own apartment – to start your new, adult life, also in a completely new and exciting city. I was 21 years old. But for more and more, there will be a move that will come later in life, perhaps when they are 25 or even 30. Although it was not entirely painless for me to get a first-hand contract, today it is even more difficult. The second - hand rents are often far too high, and one can hardly afford to pay the housing prices offered today. We think that every guy and girl should be able to feel that freedom to put the key in the lock to a completely independent life. We will therefore work to ensure that more rental apartments are built in all Swedish municipalities. Despite the fact that we are building large amounts of housing now, the Left Party is very careful that we have regulations that prevent short-term profit maximisation in construction leading to poor material choices and technical solutions that are not sustainable. A construction that only looks nice but does not meet the standards will in the long term be a huge problem for our cities. Then we will have to stand here in 10 – 15 years and have to carry out major renovations. That is why quality must be maintained and tough demands made. In order to obtain more rental rights, increased support for the construction of rental rights is also required and the difference in tax and financing conditions between lease forms is being offset – it is not sustainable in the long term that we only subsidise private dwellings and not rental rights. It should not be the state but each individual who should be allowed to choose how they want to live. Therefore, the conditions need to be the same. It cannot, as it is today, distinguish SEK 4,000 a month between a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment and a right-of-occupancy apartment. For the Left Party, this is the single most important issue when it comes to obtaining more good housing for affordable rents. It is good that the government's objective now is that half of new production should be rentals. This makes the work of further support for the construction of rental apartments even more urgent. Of course, we look forward to the study on preferential government loans for construction coming this autumn and the large housing package presented by the Government and the Left Party, which mainly contains resources aimed at the construction of rental rights and the renovation of rental apartments. It is a small step to get more equal conditions between the tenure forms. Investment support will enable many more 20-year-olds to leave home. We are therefore keen to move forward and further invest in the construction of rental apartments. Hundreds of investment aid applicants will therefore now build less-rented rental apartments. It's pushing down the rents on the entire market. Madam President, I would like Before today's debate, I devoted myself to examining the evaluation that has been made of the type of investment aid that we have today. It was pretty clear. The evaluation states that investment support has good accuracy. Now I quote: Investment aid has had an impact on both the scope and focus of housing construction and rental levels. It says that the investment stimulus has steered towards small and medium-sized apartments. There could be some comments on this. The evaluation concludes that rental levels have become significantly lower than they would otherwise have been, which according to the document has allowed ordinary income earners to request these rental rights. Although investment aid does not, of course, impose such a requirement, the evaluation could see that those who have moved into housing have been households with a relatively weak position on the housing market to a relatively large extent. They are single parents, young households, single-family households and low-income households. One effect of the investment support was that the county administrative boards' review of social requirements under the Planning and Construction Act has had a positive effect on the quality of new production. As regards support for student housing, the evaluation noted that the strong increase in the construction of student housing was a direct consequence of the support for student housing. About two thirds of rentals had never been built without investment support. Almost all the developers reply that they never implemented the construction projects if it were not for the investment incentives. The aid also attracted more operators who started construction projects that never came off without the incentives. The share of private developers was very high among those seeking investment aid for rental dwellings. The aid also attracted new developers and increased competition – this assessment is made in the evaluation. In general, interest in building rental dwellings for ordinary-income households increased in the market. Now there are a lot of actors who have applied for current investment aid. What concerns me, Madam President, is that there are parties in Parliament that are so interested in us not building cheap rentals that they want to completely erase the investment in new production of rentals. I would like to say that it is a rather mean gesture against the nearly 400 000 young people who want nothing more than a first-hand contract. What do the bourgeois parties say to the private developers who will build new cheap rental apartments in Linköping, Kalmar or in Lidköping? How can there be parties that seriously want to take away young people's opportunity to move from home to new rentals with reasonable rents in places such as Karlskrona, Mora, Hudiksvall, Jönköping, Västervik, Gotland, Lund, Malmö, Tyresö, Katrineholm, Skellefteå, Umeå, Gothenburg, Västerås, Sundsvall? Madam President, I would like I cannot continue with the list of those who have searched, because then I would have to stand here all night. I read an article about Josefine Andersson and her partner, who has moved into a brand new third in Ulricehamn, which was built with the support of investment support. She says she's very happy that the rent is relatively okay even though it's new production. Martin Gunnardo, who is both a partner and a project leader in the construction in which Josefine now lives, says that there is a clear value in the support. By being able to rent newly produced apartments to relatively low rents, they have managed to get a mix of people in the houses that would otherwise have been difficult to achieve. He says: With the support we can keep the rents down. It gives people who would otherwise find it difficult to enter the housing market a chance. We see everything from the newly loved couple, who have their first apartment, to the lonely pensioner, who has sold his house. Investment support enables 20-year-olds, 22-year-olds and 75-year-olds to put the key in the lock and open a door to a home they can call their own. I hope that we will work together to ensure that even more people can do the same, not fewer. I am also pleased that Boverket has now been commissioned to look at what it looks like with the income requirements that landlords impose on new tenants. It is good that the committee states that these requirements put unreasonable and unnecessarily high obstacles in the way of applicants for housing who want to get a first-hand contract or, for that matter, for a person who, for example, wants to switch to smaller and more adapted housing. The Left Party also proposes that the government's efforts to combat segregation be stepped up. Segregation is an economic issue, but it is also a question of design. Some are about creating equality in society, that everyone should have wages on which to live, that an equal amount of community support should be given to both rented and owned housing and that welfare should work equally well in all residential areas. But it may also have to do with how we build our cities. Areas that do not have rental apartments are at risk of exclusion for many people. A city centre without affordable rentals makes it almost just a visitor's place for many, not a place where you could live. We think it's wrong. Housing policy will work to open more doors, not close them. We are therefore pleased that the government is now going to work to prevent exclusion and gentrification in the urban space. In addition, the government, as we have proposed, will look at how we create good living and outdoor environments. In a housing market driven by profit maximization and fast money, it is extremely important that quality, high standards and long-term sustainability are not excluded. However, we are dissatisfied with the fact that we have not received a response to our demand for housing agency services in our municipalities so that applicants do not have to run around, stand in several queues, find out which landlords are in the area and have contacts. It would have been much easier to collect everything in one place. It would be much easier to find the apartment that becomes vacant. Discrimination and the black trade in rental contracts could be completely eliminated. The Left Party believes that all municipalities should have a public housing company. Without a utility housing company, housing responsibility risks becoming a paper product. Furthermore, we have said that we would like to give our elected representatives much more space to impose requirements on centres in our cities. They should be stylish and fresh and act as the focal point for citizens that they should act as. The central parts of our cities and districts are important. They are democratic gathering points. There are often important public services, meeting rooms and shops. At times, the centres are privatised and decommissioned. We believe that local politicians in this situation should be able to get the tools to make demands of such an actor, so that people can have a good center.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-900	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling, on behalf of the Liberals, for reservation 9 on emergency housing in the CU14 report on housing policy and for reservation 5 on the right of private initiative on detailed plans in the CU15 report on planning and construction. For time-winning, we in the Liberals are not in favour of our other reservations, but we are, of course, fully behind them as well. Madam President, I would like The Swedish housing market is characterised by too little housing and too little market. Long-term regulations do not build enough, while queues and taxes mean that people cannot, do not dare and do not want to move between the properties that are already built. Liberals see the consequences of the policy that has been pursued in Sweden for a long time. The social problems of every individual affected are great. The queues of the rental market shut them out without social capital and contacts. The prices of the right-of-occupancy and the villas exclude them without financial capital for an effort. It often happens to be the same individuals who are excluded from the rental market and the owned market. The lack of a sensible housing policy makes many Swedes refer to an unfair secondary market. And we all know that you have a much worse chance of getting a home through the Block if you're Ali. The Swedish housing market is a socialist left-wing breakdown, I can describe it as. It has tried to regulate justice and equality politically but has instead created segregation, social injustice and fewer class trips. The Social Democrats have politically created millions of programme areas with exclusive rental rights and therefore also exclusion, because the employment policies and high thresholds of the Social Democrats at the same time make it extremely difficult for these people to get jobs. In principle, the Social Democrats have done everything wrong with their housing policy. In Gårdsten in Gothenburg, which is a million-dollar programme area where I have lived and which has been insecure and had an incredible alienation as well as an incredible lack of work, they have now managed to reverse the development. According to the assessment, Gårdsten will not be a exposed area within two years. What has been done? More mixed forms of housing have been invested. So it builds other forms of housing than rental apartments and tries to get a mix in the area so that even people who get up can stay. You also have the opportunity to own your dwelling. There is a way out of exclusion and segregation, and it is called liberalisation and empowerment through mixed housing forms in all locations. In addition, the road is called more police presence, and there the government has also contributed by removing the juvenile police in these areas. The Liberals have a policy for this, when we invest more in security swords and 4 000 SEK more in the checkout for every policeman in Sweden. With the Liberals' police reform, there will be 300 more policemen in Gothenburg alone. The impact on jobs and growth is also difficult because of housing policy. Companies are finding it harder to grow, and the competitiveness of our economy is weakening. Spotify and other start-up companies choose to grow in countries other than Sweden, and one might ask why. They themselves indicate that it is too difficult to find accommodation for staff, and so they choose to grow in other countries. The fact that companies choose not to come to Sweden and that people cannot move to work means that at least 15 000 Swedes go unemployed. The Finnish Immigration Service and the municipalities also point out that the most difficult thing is not to give asylum seekers and newly arrived introductory courses in Swedish and other things that we often talk about, but it is a roof over our heads that is the biggest challenge. This can be seen here in Stockholm, where the Social Democratic government has not been able to achieve the goal of giving all newcomers shelter over their heads. We know why we stand where we stand now. All facts and statistics are available. Boverket has, among other things, pointed to the need for an appropriate planning process. They also say that we have too long lead times for housing construction. We have the EU's toughest rental regulation. We have a utility value system that is increasingly malfunctioning in an overheated market. Our costs of moving and changing homes are probably the highest in the entire OECD. Construction costs are also the highest in the EU. The Social Democrats have created a good recipe! The government is now also taking credit for building more housing than for many years. But to believe that Mehmet Kaplan and Peter Eriksson are the reason why a record number of homes are being built in Sweden is much like believing in Santa Claus. You don't listen to the ideas and suggestions of the industry. It refuses to discuss interest rebates or real rent regulation and subsidises housing which, according to all the experts, would still have been built. However, the Left Party refuses to listen to this, because those experts do not count. The reason why it is being built as much as it is today is largely due to the regulatory simplification work carried out by the Alliance, but most of all because we are in a boom. You can be honest about that being the reason. As the boom swings, residential building will also decline. Madam President, I would like The debate in this House today has clearly shown that the government parties, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats do not in any way have a policy that meets the challenges of the Swedish housing market. There is a lot of talk about solidarity, the right to housing and 22 point programmes, but in practice it defends the system that has led to the lack of 700 000 homes in Sweden, that 350 000 young adults lack their own housing, where we have longer queue time for a tenancy in Sweden today than for a Trabant in Communist East Germany in the 1980s. The system that S, MP, V and SD defends is precisely the system that has led to exclusion and strong social segregation in Sweden. The reason the housing talks failed was simply that the government danced after the Left Party pipe. It simply did not want to propose the reforms that Sweden needs in order for us to solve the housing situation, and so it was no use continuing these talks either. From the Liberals' side, we have developed a completely new housing policy since the 2014 elections. We take the challenge seriously with wise, necessary and sometimes actually difficult balances. We want to see long-term and radical reforms to solve the Swedish housing crisis. One of the difficult trade-offs concerns interest-rate reductions, and we want to reduce them by 1% a year in the ten-year term and lower the ceiling. It is necessary to get to a housing market that works. What Sweden needs is the housing policy of the Liberals and the Alliance. In these two reports, which we are discussing today, the Liberals only put forward far more comprehensive proposals than the government has taken on board in its so-called 22-point programme, which we can say contains three recipes: firstly, a mix of regulatory simplifications which the two government parties voted against when the Alliance ruled; secondly, misdirected proposals which involve more political governance of the housing market; and thirdly, a half-measures of reform of the utility value system which will not lead to shorter queues. There will still be half a million people in Stockholm's housing queue and 200,000 in Gothenburg's housing queue. I can mention ten short points that we have in our two reports. The Liberals propose, among other things: Many of these things are now being investigated and implemented by the government, but one might say that Mehmet Kaplan was not exactly a contributing factor to these investigations. It has taken a very long time to come and play the game, but it is good! If there are regulatory simplifications to the Swedish parliament, the Liberals will of course vote for them, because Sweden needs liberalisation in the housing market. I would particularly like to highlight two issues that are being addressed today. Firstly, it is a matter of prioritising accommodation for people who need on-call accommodation or sheltered accommodation. No woman should have to remain in an apartment with a violent man only because the municipality cannot develop an on-call dwelling quickly enough. We need to ensure that these people receive the protection to which they are entitled, and this is only done through municipalities prioritising emergency housing and sheltered housing. The former national coordinator against violence in close relationships proposed that the municipalities' responsibility for the operation protected housing for victims of violence be regulated in the Social Services Act. In our opinion, this could usefully be complemented by the strengthening of the Housing Responsibility Act, so that it is clear that municipalities will analyse the need for temporary housing for victims of violence and their relatives. In short: Municipalities should be obliged to ensure that women who are victims of violence have a place of residence where they can go. Secondly, it is about accessibility requirements in student apartments. The Alliance is hopefully receiving today's announcement that the government should investigate the possibility of reducing the requirements for student housing when it comes to accessibility. I want to be clear here: Liberals will not contribute to any political changes that will allow us to back up the band in terms of the possibility for people with disabilities to live a life like the rest of us. But at the same time we want to investigate and see how we can combine the possibility of building and exploiting more student housing more efficiently while maintaining a high standard for people with disabilities. There the Norwegian system can serve as an example. Madam President, I would like Liberals have a clear objective of housing policy: we must dare to open up and have a rental market that is open and accessible to everyone, where, for example, 90-talists also have a chance at a tenancy. Now they're in the back of the line. We need to support single parents and the elderly through housing supplements instead of subsidising construction companies, as the government is doing today, to build houses that they have already planned to build. It is quite unreasonable for the Red-Green parties to support rich developers rather than single parents and guarantee pensioners, if we call them that. We must also ensure that more housing and, above all, mixed housing forms are provided in areas dominated by rental rights in order to combat exclusion.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-926	Madam President, I would like I think that this debate has been very pleasant in many ways, until Robert Hannah took the floor. He evicted himself in a way that is completely inappropriate the debate we have had. Everything, everything, is the fault of the Social Democrats. That is what Robert Hannahs's speech was about. It's all the fault of the Social Democrats. It is said by a member of the committee who otherwise says that Sweden's real problem is the approach of the Moderates to the Swedish Democrats. It's all the fault of the Social Democrats. It is our fault that there is segregation in Sweden. It is our fault that there is a housing shortage in Sweden. It's all our fault. It is completely unreasonable to stand here and argue such a thing, but it may be possible if you are a representative of one of Sweden's smallest parties who tries to be the biggest by shouting absolutely highest in the speaker's chair. It has been a very good tone from Ola Johansson, Tuve Skånberg and Ewa Thalén Finné in the debate until Robert Hannah goes up in the speaker's chair. It is totally inappropriate to make such a speech. Robert Hannah has argued that the Social Democrats are doing nothing. We've heard that from others too. Yet there is a housing building in Sweden today that is fully in line with the million-dollar programme's days. Of course, it is only chance that has caused that situation to prevail. There are lists of companies that are now applying for investment aid to build student housing and rental rights throughout the country. Nooshi Dadgostar previously reported that the research shows that housing is being built where they should not have been built in the past.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-931	Madam President, I would like My job is not to be nice to the Social Democrats. I'm an opposition politician. My job is to actually point out the shortcomings that exist in the housing policy of the Social Democrats. It's clear. My job is not to be your friend. I have friends outside the Riksdag that I can hang out with. Then there was the question of what the Social Democrats have done or have not done. Can Lars Eriksson explain why you voted against many of the proposals that you now have in your 22-point programme? Why did you say no to those proposals in Parliament when we ruled when you now say yes to them? You are now proud of your 22-point program. That logic is not there for me. Furthermore, there was the discussion of segregation and the million-dollar programme. The million-dollar program areas were incorrectly designed. The areas ended up outside the areas where there was a labour market. Of course, the Social Democrats have a responsibility for the areas they have built up. These are areas dominated by rental rights, and there are high thresholds in the labour market. This means that people will not succeed. People living in those areas move away from there if they get a higher income. I am happy if people want to stay in those areas, but because other forms of housing are missing in those areas, there is no possibility today. If you ask Swedes what they are worried about, it is clear that it is in order for the gaps to widen. You yourself point that out to the Social Democrats. But you have not put forward any reasonable proposals on how to combat these gaps. That is why I have the following questions for Lars Eriksson. Firstly, why did you vote against the proposals that you have now tabled yourself? Secondly, is it not also your view that the gaps are far too large in Sweden and that politics should combat them? Is it not the right situation to ensure that there are mixed forms of housing in the areas?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-936	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I described developments in Sweden today. Sweden is doing well. Sweden currently has the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. The construction of housing is fully classed with the days of the million-dollar program. These are not bad conditions for dealing with the housing shortage in Sweden. In order to be able to ask for a home, an income and a job is a pretty good idea. The fact that more and more people can say in the morning that they are now going to work is not a bad condition for getting a place to live and build a place to live. What happened during the Alliance's time in the field of housing for young people and students was that you presented a bill. It got a colorful cover and was about facilitating the establishment of elevators to upper floors. Then you presented a bill to the Riksdag about young people and students living in Attefallshus on their parents' property. I asked earlier where that reform went. Here, friends in the Alliance do not want to admit that they have even claimed that this would be a solution to the problems. This government has introduced investment aid to be able to target aid for things that would not otherwise have been built. I have presented a list published in Hem & Hyra where it is clear that in a number of different locations rental rights and student housing are being built. They say that it is a matter of housing that would not have been built if they had not received the support. A general routine criticism of the government on the points that the government would not have done anything and does not have a policy in this area is completely misplaced.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-941	Madam President, I would like I do not claim that you have no policy. I say you have a bad policy. There's a big difference. You are pursuing a subsidy policy in which you subsidise rich developers with 6 billion a year while the Liberals have a record amount of money, 3.6 billion a year, which goes directly into the pockets of single parents with several children and pensioners with low pensions. Who are they? Well, the majority are women. The Social Democrats will have to think about why you want to give money to rich developers, where all the experts say that those houses had been built anyway. That's what the student housing companies say. Swedish construction industries say so. Real estate owners say so. But Lars Eriksson has a list of those who want subsidies. Of course, I wouldn't have said no either if someone had given me free money for things I'm already going to do. It's quite obvious. Then there was the question of the employment rate and unemployment in Sweden. We should be glad that record numbers of young people go to work. But there are many others who do not. The figures show that there is a record difference in how many people go to work every day between those born in Sweden and those born outside the borders of Europe. There is an extremely growing gap in Sweden, and the answer is not to subsidise rich developers. The answer lies in actually reforming and combating exclusion in our suburbs. It is about more security swords, more mixed forms of housing and the fight against honour-related violence and oppression in these areas. Today a LGBTQ person cannot live in these areas without feeling afraid. This is the kind of question that makes the Swedish people think that Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. But you stand here beating your chest and saying that everything is perfect. It's not all perfect. There are many challenges in Sweden. Liberals have answers to the challenges, and you do not. I'm afraid so. I will continue to criticise the Social Democrats for failings, for a workable job policy, for a segregated housing market and for a Sweden that does not stick together.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-953	Madam President, I would like We will now debate the Foreign Affairs Committee's report UU11, Policy Framework for Swedish Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid. This is about the government's letter on the policy framework. I think that the issue of aid is important. It is about us from the Swedish side, together with other countries, supporting positive humanitarian development. It is simply about more people being able to eat enough, be able to read and write, be able to vote in an election and be able to live without fear of war. For this to work, of course, the countries themselves must build up their skills in the long term. But it's also about people having an income to live on. Here we also know that there are more people today who have an income than before. More people can read than before. But there is still a need for aid. That is why I am somewhat perplexed by the letter from the government. That I am it is not because there is a need for aid, and it is not for Sweden to participate in international cooperation in the field of aid, but because the government seems to want to do everything according to its letter. I cannot see that there is any kind of priority. Nor can I say that there is a description of how the government is to follow up on the fact that aid efforts really go to what they are going to do and that they are doing the good that is intended. I also cannot see from this how we in Parliament should be able to follow up on what the government's efforts are going to be. I am therefore very critical of the report before us. Much has happened in the area of aid. This can be seen not least in the letter, since the cases have changed. There are several different documents on which this is based. I am thinking here of Agenda 2030, Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the climate agreement in Paris. These are important documents separately, and they are important documents together. It is about extensive work and that Sweden should not only act alone, but above all together with other actors. It is about Sweden being able to cooperate within the EU with other EU countries. It is about Sweden being able to cooperate with other actors. And that's what the government writes in its letter. But what should you cooperate on? How should we work together? What is the priority? What will be the government's priorities? I know I'm going to get an answer about the government's priority. I repeat, specify, and let us know! It cannot be that all the words in the letter are a priority. What I have learned over the years is that anyone who is crying for much often loses the whole piece. That's how it's done. That is why I want a government priority. Aid is about a long-term commitment. It is a matter of urgency, because the activities and countries receiving aid must be able to count on a long-term perspective, a thought behind it and a desire for development. That is why I think it would have been good if the government had shown a willingness to discuss and negotiate with the alliance parties. The government will certainly reply that it has come to the Foreign Affairs Committee and presented things. But it is one thing to present and prefer and something else to actually sit down and discuss. How can we best ensure long-term development work? How can we ensure that priorities are made and that opportunities for follow-up are created? I say this again, because I think it is important that we have long-term aid work that is anchored here in Parliament. This is particularly important when it comes to a minority government that is dependent on cooperation with the Riksdag in order to get its proposals through. Of course, I support the reservation.
i-VMWTY7RMuVbSm1TL541qKi	Mr. Old President! Already in the Government Declaration of 3 October 2014, it was announced that a new aid policy platform would be developed in collaboration with all actors in the field of aid. This platform was included in the proposal list for spring 2016 and ended on 14 December 2016, with the Government's letter on a new policy framework for Swedish development cooperation and humanitarian aid. This could well be said to be an update of the development policy platform presented by the Alliance Government in spring 2014. But the work of cooperating with everyone, except possibly with Parliament's development politicians, took time. According to the Swedish Parliament's Investigation Service, the Government adopted 22 strategies between September 2014 and December 2016. These 22 strategies are based on the previously adopted aid policy platform. In recent years – as stated in the policy framework – a number of key global processes have taken place, such as Agenda 2030, Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development, the Sendai Framework on Disaster Reduction and the Paris Climate Agreement. It can certainly be reasonable for a government's basic documents to be updated as new international agreements are concluded and the world around them changed, but from the Alliance we ask ourselves questions about the new policy framework. Mr. Old President! We believe that there is a lack of clear priorities in the new aid platform and that there are uncertainties in terms of governance and the possibility of follow-up, which risks affecting the quality of aid. It also risks weakening the possibilities for those of us who are in a position to review the government's policy of monitoring, on the basis of the objective of development cooperation, the most effective use of aid. This is something that risks the long-term legitimacy of aid for those who finance Swedish aid: Swedish taxpayers. Of course, in Sweden there is generally a commitment to be involved in helping to make the world a little better. It is not the case that the waves of debate on aid go high outside the sphere of interest groups, but I do not think this is because people are not interested in contributing and helping. I believe that we want to be able to rely on one's tax resources, which go to help people suffering from poverty and oppression, actually making a difference and that the priorities that we politicians have made are the wisest. Above all, I believe that we want to be able to rely on a careful review and follow-up of the results of our efforts. How this opportunity can be improved with the Government's policy framework, I look forward to finding out more about during this debate. I appreciate the participation of Minister Lövin in today's debate, because the debate article that Lövin wrote in connection with the launch of the policy framework raises some questions. It was made clear that a holistic approach to Swedish aid is now being taken and that the headpipes with the focus on results that the Alliance has stood for now will be a thing of the past. However, the Alliance's pit spray and performance direction have worked so far, when the government has designed the 22 strategies. Mr. Old President! It is correct that the government writes in the policy framework: Sweden cannot do everything everywhere. But it is not quite possible to see how the government prioritises. What do you focus on before other things? Not everything can be as important when the budget has limitations. On several points it is stated that new grips must be taken, but it does not describe what these new grips mean. We are talking about innovation, but what does this mean in concrete terms, and how does it improve people suffering from poverty and oppression? In previous debates with Isabella Lövin, both here in this House and on debate pages, I have set out what we Christian Democrats see as important priorities in a world that is burning. I have expressed our view on how we need to increase and streamline humanitarian aid, but also how we need to work in the long term to combat what makes the world burn. However, whatever we talk about – whether it be the importance of support for democrats and political parties, the protection of religious freedom or support for the creation of jobs for people on the run – the answer is that these issues are of course important to the government. On the other hand, how the government's non-suppression, innovation, take-up and holistic approach can achieve better results remains unclear. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to endorse the Alliance's joint reservation 1 in paragraph 1.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-975	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the committee's report UU11 Policy Framework for Swedish Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid. I would like to start by talking about continuity in aid. We have noted from the committee that the foundation of Parliament could have been better, as has also been pointed out here in the speaker's chair. There are different ways of building continuity in aid. We can either ensure that this government has a further 41 years – we have some experience of long-term ownership of the government – or ensure that we get a broad parliamentary anchoring of the policy framework. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that the government has sought consensus and that a very broad process with civil society has been pursued. We have pointed out that there are challenges when we cannot have a broad parliamentary consensus on the policy frameworks governing aid. We do not want aid that changes with the possession of government power. At the same time, this policy framework represents an essential innovation. 2015 was a very important year for global development issues. As mentioned earlier, we received Agenda 2030, there was a development finance conference and we got a new climate agreement. This, of course, affects how we can and want to carry out our aid work. We must continuously adapt to current realities. As an example, we can think of Lebanon, where I had the privilege of taking a study trip with the UNDP. I witnessed the situation, with a large number of Syrian refugees who are there because of the conflict in Syria. Of course, it was completely impossible for the previous government to imagine what this development would look like. At this point, it is important that we have a new thinking in aid. I would like to say that we have a Syria strategy that has been decided on the basis of the old aid platform, or despite the old aid platform. The previous government also realised that there must be some flexibility in how we design our strategies. This does not mean that we should avoid updating documents and just leave them lying – then they become out-of-date and irrelevant. At the same time, there is a great deal that we in the Swedish Parliament agree on, although we have not managed to get a broad committee to support the report. We fully agree on the perspective of the development of poor people and their rights perspective. I think we also agree on the perspectives that the government has added: the conflict perspective, the gender perspective and the environmental and climate perspective. These are not new issues, but something that we have continuously worked with and developed over time. The committee also agrees with the report that these perspectives are important and relevant. I am proud of the policy framework that we are debating today in Parliament. There is a broad consensus in civil society on the wording of it. There are many who have been heard in the process. We have a solid foundation to continue from when we develop our development work in the future. I would also like to comment on some of what has been said earlier. Fundersam, says Margareta Cederfelt. Then I wonder what it really is that Margareta Cederfelt wants to remove. We have now supported Agenda 2030. It is a fantastic document to work with globally. These are 17 very ambitious objectives. Do Margareta Cederfelt and the Moderates think that we should give priority to any of the targets? We have an ambitious agenda with a broad approach that we have supported. Then, of course, we must also take a broad approach in our policy framework. For the Christian Democrats and Sofia Damm, I would like to emphasise that we have had the opportunity to adopt 22 strategies, despite the old aid platform. This means that even the old government saw that the world is changing and that there must be some flexibility in this. This does not mean that these strategies are sufficient when we now have a changing world and new documents to deal with. With this, I would like to thank myself and support the committee's proposal.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-991	Mr. Old President! For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that the reservation I request is the reservation in paragraph 1. Before Maria Andersson Willner says that it is up to me to talk about our priorities, the government must give an answer to its priorities. It cannot be masked that the government has not prioritised anything or has been evasive when it comes to prioritising by saying that the burden of proof is on us moderates. It doesn't. It is the government that has submitted a letter. Then it is also the government that should prioritise. I agree that Sweden should be involved in aid. I agree with much of what has been said here, but I still want a priority, because it is not possible to be active everywhere. I would also like to hear what partners the government has in mind, what it intends to cooperate on and how it intends to work together. These are important questions, because that is exactly what is at the heart of a policy framework, and I cannot see that the answers are in the letter.
i-NtuJTtzu3B7j8FnvTPsbKT	Mr. Old President! Thank you for asking, Margareta. No, I definitely don't think the Moderates should answer what should be prioritised. This is already done in the letter. Our priorities are democracy, human rights, global gender equality, environment and climate, peaceful and inclusive societies, inclusive economic development, positive views on migration, equal health, education and research, and humanitarian aid. These are the ones mentioned in the letter, which the report also supports. What I'm wondering is what the Moderates want to remove. If you say that it is too broad an agenda, then I wonder what it is we should remove. What things in Agenda 2030 should we not do? What things in the development finance documents are we no longer in on? Shouldn't we live up to the climate agreements anymore? The priorities are here. It is a broad palette of measures that we want to work with. What's interesting to know is if there's something to be removed. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the opportunity to develop a little on humanitarian aid. One of the most important elements of the new agenda is that we also include humanitarian aid, which is governed by its own principles. But we must see that there is potential to integrate clean development aid with humanitarian aid. We know that humanitarian conflicts are going on more and more, and it is important that the two aid schemes link in with each other.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-998	Mr. Old President! I thank Maria Willner for her reply, which unfortunately confirms that I have not received an answer, because Maria Andersson Willner made the mistake of listing everything there is. But what do you see as particularly important? What is it that you want to bet extra much on? Who is it that you particularly want to cooperate with, and what do you want to cooperate with? These are important questions, because if we as a parliament are to be able to follow up, we need to have a little more information than what is actually given in the policy framework or the document that Maria Andersson Willner refers to. And the government has had a long time. In the 2014 Government Declaration, the Minister of State spoke of a new policy framework and a revised letter. But three years later, I cannot see that new priorities have been added. Is it possible to get any specifications? That would make it easier.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1001	Mr. Old President! No, it is not some very new priorities. We chew on and believe that what we have done so far has been successful, that we are good at what we do, that we are effective and that we are in demand internationally. I do not think we need new priorities. The challenges are broad and many, and we must be prepared to take a broad approach. Then, of course, the policy framework is not directly guiding down to the level of detail. It will be translated into instructions, in regulatory letters, in owner's instructions and in policy guidelines. It is the foundation, which then leads to a workshop down at the land strategy level. I do not think that we should be in there poking into detail, and I do not think that Margareta Cederfelt means that either. I believe that we still agree that we need to have a broad agenda and a broad approach in order to be able to meet the commitments that Sweden and the global community have endorsed and to be able to meet the challenges that we are seeing today.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1004	Mr. Old President! I would now like to enter the debate directly. But I'm going to make a speech first. When we stood in this Chamber a year ago, the world had just gone through a revolutionary period of sustainable development. We had received a new binding climate agreement in Paris, 17 new global goals for sustainable development and also a joint plan for how to finance it. My friends! Together we have been involved in writing international political history. Today we find ourselves in a more uncertain world, a more dangerous world in many different ways. In just a year, Britain has decided to leave a Europe of existential concerns. The United States has a new and rather unpredictable president. Turkey has taken major steps away from democracy. We are even talking about reintroducing the death penalty. And Russia has proved its ability to influence the Western political agenda from scratch, by hacking into and influencing elections in Europe. All of this has unfortunately led to a slight limping of the world's overall desire for aid and development cooperation. An increasing number of countries seem to want to focus their efforts on short-term measures that can give quick points for domestic policy. Unfortunately, we are increasingly seeing drifting away from the main objective of development cooperation – poverty reduction and work for democracy and human rights. We see that large and important donors, such as the United States, are now turning their backs on the climate. You shut down websites. It is said that the climate threat does not exist. It turns to gender equality, human rights and the future of future generations. We see that many of the richest countries in the world are beginning to cut back on aid. And important support for the UN agencies, which we really believe in, has begun to be stopped, the hub of our joint peace cooperation – a functioning UN and a functioning multilateral system. In short, we have seen many take decisions that have not been grounded in the research that we have in our backs on development cooperation. Instead, decisions have been based on ideological beliefs and hopes for short-term political gains. We know that long-term development cooperation based on ownership with our partner countries is what works. Mr. Old President! That is why I have a little question about how the Alliance is reasoning. They have chosen to reserve their reservations against the government's aid policy letter and maintain that it is the aid platform that they had during their eight years in government power that will apply. It was quite discussed. There is a big difference between how the current government sees how development cooperation should be conducted and how the alliance government viewed it. Research has, as I said, shown that you should work long-term, that you should have a little bigger programme support and sometimes budget support and that you should not go back to projectification just because you think you have to measure exactly what Sweden's money has gone to in the individual project. Development cooperation is difficult. It'll take time. And you have to have the courage to take some risks. That is why it is important to stick to donor coordination, long-term and complex programmes and not to enter into a projectification, which I would say the Alliance engaged in in its aid platform. I do not understand how the Alliance thinks now that we have had this revolutionary time and when we have reached all the agreements on the climate in Paris and Agenda 2030. It is not included in the aid platform. How does the Alliance envisage its integration? And why should the platform on which a government should be based not be in line with what we have decided internationally? These are questions that I ask myself in this debate. Mr. Old President! I am pleased and proud that the government is now presenting a framework for Swedish aid, which dares to go at the forefront and work in a headwind. Today, unfortunately, it is a fact that aid policy that dares to take a stand for precisely what the world agreed only two years ago is now becoming more difficult and more difficult. It is a framework that focuses in good Swedish aid tradition on long-term sustainability, transparency, local ownership and, of course, on always being at the forefront when it comes to working with democracy and human rights. It is an aid that focuses on climate, gender equality, conflict prevention and peace-promoting work. There is some of the answer I would like to give to Margareta Cederfelt on the previous question. This is also an aid framework that is fully in line with Agenda 2030, the Paris Agreement and Addis Ababa Action Agenda. And it's actually needed. The world outside Europe is not waiting for us. The war in Syria has not ended. Conflicts have not left Afghanistan, Congo or Mali. And the famine that has struck the African continent, and which is now worse than ever, will not be the last. We assume that the sustained efforts to reduce poverty and allocate our resources more fairly will continue. The climate will not be more favourable to us humans just because we pretend that it does not change. Women, children and vulnerable minorities will not be better off simply because of the development of technology and the increase in growth in one country. We need to constantly remind ourselves that democracy is something that both here in Sweden and in the international community need to work tactically and steadily to get and to preserve when you have it. My friends! All of this is done by the current government. And through this aid strategy, we are now establishing forward-looking aid that dares to take a stand. I call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1022	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Mrs Pernilla for her speech. Unfortunately, however, I do not wish to say that I have received answers to my questions. I was again introduced to myself the government's proposed smorgasbord. But what is the priority? What is the priority for the destination of aid? What is the priority when it comes to governance? How's it gonna work? What are the priorities for follow-up? How's that gonna happen? These are important issues. If there is to be a long-term perspective, there must also be a framework. There must be something to hold on to, so that instead of long-term, it does not become a flattening around. That is exactly what can happen if there are no priorities. There are also joys in this context. They are important to take into account when we talk about aid and negative developments. It is about more people today who can read than before. It is about more people today who can eat enough than before. But I fully agree with the description of the problem. This is a serious development in the world. Lack of democracy, conflicts, famines, climate – there are many problems. That is why I am highlighting the importance of priorities, so that we know that aid goes where it should go. Otherwise, there is a risk of aid that not only misses the target but is directly harmful and can lead to negative consequences. Sweden cannot afford to contribute to this. The world can't afford to experience it either.
i-NLN8xYKCskfMyQpzXRSUFM	Mr. Old President! Thank you for asking, Margareta Cederfelt! The foundation is human rights, democracy and the fight against poverty. We have it in common, and Sweden has always stood for it in its development cooperation. Some of the focus areas of our development cooperation that we have today are Africa and the Middle East. I mean the broad conflict perspective. It is about preventing conflict through development cooperation, development in different societies, building democratic structures and so on. It is a patchwork of various measures that need to be taken to prevent conflicts and build strong societies. At the same time, many countries are in conflict. There, Sweden invests in being able to mediate and contribute to conflict resolution. We must also ensure that women – that is, 50% of the population – are not kept away from the negotiating tables. Women must also be involved in deciding how to build a society after a peace agreement and in the peace agreement decision itself. In the case of post-conflict, one should continue to be present when a country has been affected by war and conflict. Then it is very much about building democratic structures and institutions in order to have a functioning society that does not return to conflict. This work is very much about prevention, about the lifting of conflict and about postal conflict.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1034	Mr. Old President! Then I have an answer about priorities: conflicts, the conflict circle, preventing ongoing conflicts and post-conflicts. Then I hope that the government will agree on this. I look forward to hearing what the Minister for Development will also say. You are certainly fellow parties, but I assume that the Minister for Development will speak for the whole government. I regret that I did not hear Maria Andersson Willner say anything about the priority of the conflict circle. But I have a question that Pernilla Stålhammar might be able to answer: Is there any geographical thought in this? Is there any idea about partners when it comes to efforts to reduce conflict tension? Is there any idea of follow-up? I still miss those pieces. I still lack an answer to whether the government agrees on this priority or whether it is Pernilla Stålhammar's priority.
i-68SEoxtkAZW5SDvRbgRSgp	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for that question! Unfortunately, in terms of focus, there are many conflicts in the Middle East. There are many conflicts going on in Africa. There are some of our geographical focus areas. Then there is the Peace Diplomacy Initiative, which has now arrived at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is about us contributing to conflict resolution and mediation in those places where Sweden can play a crucial role. That is why we will be deploying people in these conflict countries to help with that. This must be requested, and we are in demand for the reason that we in Sweden have had a long and good development cooperation for many years. We haven't colonized the world. We have been considered quite neutral in different contexts. That is why we have the opportunity to take such a role. Among other things, we have appointed an envoy for the Middle East peace process. These were the different focus areas. Then where exactly these peace diplomats will be placed, we will have to discuss later.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1041	Mr. Old President! Sweden has been involved in humanitarian aid for 65 years. But I would say that never before has the need for Swedish aid been as great as it is right now. Not since World War II have so many people been on the run. Climate change is already hitting the world's poor in particular, the world's women and the world's children hard. The scope for civil society is being reduced in a wide range of countries. Economic inequality, discrimination and fragile states cement poverty and inequality. At the same time, we are also seeing positive developments in a wide range of areas in a wide range of countries. Poverty decreases, life expectancy increases, more girls and boys go to school. Important reforms have been implemented in many countries that are increasing and strengthening women's rights. There, Swedish aid can help to strengthen this development. Our environment has become increasingly complex. More and more players want to engage in aid, from idealistic philanthropists to newly rich countries on the Arabian Peninsula and multinational private companies. The driving forces and objectives of the new aid differ on several points – if you want to express yourself diplomatically. Coordination is becoming increasingly difficult. We also see how global flows of resources have changed and increased. Trade, referrals, investment and capital flight limit, influence and contribute to developing countries' ability to mobilise resources for their own development. In a complex world with great needs, there are also increasing demands on Swedish aid. We need clear governance, clear objectives and, not least, clear priorities based on our added value and our strengths as aid actors. When Minister for Development Gunilla Carlsson announced in 2012 that she would develop an aid policy platform, I and many people thought it was a well-lawed initiative. But Carlsson's platform was developed behind closed doors at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without dialogue with either civil society or us in the Riksdag. The final product was then. They ignored and largely closed their eyes to the broad experience that exists in Sweden after more than six decades of development cooperation in terms of both success and failure. When I hear bourgeois representatives today criticising the present government for its process, I cannot help but reflect on the process of the bourgeois government. After all, the glass fragment flies in this House when bourgeois representatives throw their stones into their rather small glass houses. On several points we from the Left Party were critical of the platform developed by the bourgeois government. The platform was permeated by an over-reliance on economic growth as the solution to the world's challenges. The climate, environment and children's perspectives shone with their absence. The links with the millennium objectives are weak. It was a weak focus on poverty reduction and on the poorest. It also turned out during the operation. I remember when Indevelop under the bourgeois government would make an evaluation of Sida's efforts. It was then found that 40 percent of Sida's efforts did not reach the poorest on earth. The Left Party already said then – when the aid policy platform was adopted – that it should be re-established. The need for a new governance document has not diminished since then, rather the opposite. There have been great changes in the world around us. The Millen have been replaced by new development objectives, Agenda 2030. We have seen a new binding climate agreement, and we are seeing new major humanitarian crises, not least in the Middle East, which place completely new demands on aid. Mr. Old President! The Left Party believes that the policy framework adopted by the government takes several steps in the right direction. It is clear that the many actors involved in Swedish aid have been listened to. The perspective of rights is clearer. There is a clearer focus on the poorest and civil society as actors of change. There is also a clear link with Agenda 2030, to name a few examples. But I must also say that this policy framework on two points is disappointing to us in the Left Party. First of all, we believe that the government has missed a unique opportunity to make clear priorities and make visible what is Sweden's global added value. At a time when Sweden would really have to say what are our priorities and what are not our priorities, what are our strengths and what are our weaknesses as aid actors, we get instead a governance document that says that we should do a lot of everything and preferably a little more than before. I follow the government's aid work and Isabella Lövin's work, and it is clear that there are priorities. There are issues of heart that have been raised, and there are other issues that have been obscured. However, the priorities that the government is apparently pursuing in terms of aid are rarely put on record. They're rarely pronounced. It will be very difficult for us as parliamentarians to follow up on this and demand responsibility. Secondly, we think that Isabella Lövin has partly made about Gunilla Carlsson's mistakes in the process. It is true that there has been a much better foundation for civil society, but Parliament has not been involved in the process in any way this time either. In Swedish aid we are happy to talk about ownership. This is also done in the policy framework. But Parliament's ownership of this product is very small. I believe that very few Members of Parliament in this House feel responsible for this product, feeling that they own the policy framework that the government has now adopted. I believe that these 65 years of Swedish aid have taught us that aid must be long-term in order to make a difference. It must be aid that lasts over time, over elections and over shifts of power. I think it would be sad if, after the next elections, we had to start a third process in order to adopt a third governance document in far too short a time. I would have liked us to have produced, in the broadest possible political agreement, a governance document that could last over time, over elections and over the shifts in power. I therefore call for the motion in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1058	Mr. Old President! Ladies and gentlemen! We are living in a contradictory time. 2015 was a year of extraordinary faith in the future. For the first time, the world agreed on a whole, complex and common development agenda that weaves together the economy with social and environmental sustainability. With Agenda 2030, Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the Paris Agreement, the world has agreed that we should switch to a sustainable and green economy, that we should jointly eradicate poverty in the world, that we should reduce the gaps, that we should create peaceful societies with legitimate governance and accountability, and that we should stop destroying our planet. It's not a small agenda, Mr. Old President. It is an agenda for the whole world and all those who inhabit this world. Not only aid can realise this vision, but the whole economic system, businesses and politics must deliver on this vision if we are to have the slightest chance of success. And we have to succeed. To continue as before and try to turn a blind eye to war, conflict, oppression of people and the fact that 700 million people live in the extreme poverty walled up with the most offensive prosperity and abundance of another part of the earth's population is not sustainable. Nine out of ten children go to school. Even the poorest can read and write. They have a cell phone. They can see the abundance in real time on TV or on the internet. No man is today on this earth further away than a phone call in a globalised world where almost everyone has access to mobile phones. Mr. Old President! The world has changed very quickly in the last 20 years. Extreme poverty has been reduced by just over 1 billion people. It's a great success. But the planet has a fever. The fossil emissions are based on the carbon dioxide cover around our little blue planet millimeters by millimeter every day and every hour. If we do not change and change our economy, all our progress risks being thwarted in a world of heat, drought and violent storms, which are already hitting the poorest of all. But that is not the only thing that threatens our sustainable development. The challenges are many and great. The number of wars and conflicts in the world is increasing. Some 1.4 billion people today live in war - stricken or conflict - stricken states. Never before have so many people felt compelled to flee. Today, 65 million people are on the run. Climate change is a reality today. Human rights, democracy and the rule of law are under threat. Since 2012, 60 countries have taken measures that make it more difficult for civil society organisations, journalists or human rights defenders to operate, review power and hold decision-makers to account. Women and girls are systematically discriminated against. Income poverty remains widespread and deep. About a tenth of the earth's population, over 700 million people, are estimated to live below the economic poverty line of barely $2 a day. Inequality drives instability and uncertainty. The world's eight richest people own as much as the poorest three and a half billion. Mr. Old President! We now see among the rich countries a tendency to give priority to domestic policy requirements and geopolitics over poverty reduction and development efficiency. Several states are pressing to use the scarce resources of aid for purposes other than pure aid. Fewer and fewer rich countries are living up to the principles jointly laid down for aid and development effectiveness. That's worrying. In an environment where more and more forces are pulling development cooperation away from its core task, it is important that we in Sweden continue to insist on the target of poverty reduction and the target of 1% of gross national income. Sweden maintains that local ownership, untying and an inclusive approach involving civil society, the scientific community, the social partners, the private sector and other actors is effective aid. Aid based on strict self-interest is not effective aid. Mr. Old President! I am very pleased that we are debating the new policy framework in Parliament today. I am very proud that we now have a single single document bringing together all the thematic elements of development cooperation, as well as humanitarian aid. The purpose of the letter is to have a knowledge-based and widely-based framework that responds to today's major challenges and is adapted to the new global development agenda, Agenda 2030. At the same time, I note that Sweden is more ambitious than Agenda 2030 in several areas, such as gender equality, democracy and human rights. The Government highlights three new perspectives that will permeate development cooperation. It is a conflict prevention perspective, a gender perspective and an environmental and climate perspective. Of course, poor people's perspectives on development and rights have continued to play a role in our development cooperation. They are integrated into the decision-making, planning, implementation and follow-up of activities together with the three new perspectives. The government also states that the protection of human rights continues to be a cornerstone of Swedish development cooperation. The construction and strengthening of democratic governance and institutions as well as the promotion of the rule of law are just as important if not more important than ever. Action against the shrinking scope for civil society and the importance of combating discrimination in all its forms. Mr. Old President! The need for a bridge between long-term development cooperation and humanitarian aid is highlighted in the framework. Synergies must be strengthened and the transition must be made effective while maintaining the unique humanitarian mandate. When an increasing proportion of extremely poor people live in conflict-affected and failing states, it is important that we adapt our development cooperation and highlight the long-term work for peaceful and inclusive societies. We stress the importance of starting from a conflict analysis and strengthening the resilience of society as a whole. We highlight women as actors in peace building. We relate to international commitments such as the so-called New Deal for development in fragile and conflict-affected states. The policy framework also highlights migration and development. Migration generally has a positive impact on the development of countries of origin, host countries and migrants themselves and their families. Development cooperation can contribute to strengthening the positive effects of migration and to reducing the negative effects in countries of origin. The government stands up for a broad ownership. The ownership and mutual responsibility of the partner countries is central. There is a need to increase the use of partner countries' own systems while strengthening these systems. In order to be effective and deliver results, politics must start in the local context and in the needs of the country itself. The next step is when, based on country context and local ownership or on our own added value, strategies and governance are developed that define the direction of a specific country or organisation. Mr. Old President! We have now built a stable and solid framework for Swedish aid in a new era. Now, together with our partner countries and civil society through the EU and multilateral organisations, we can implement this and move forward and continue to be a modern, serious, reliable and active player in poverty reduction and sustainable development. We will contribute to innovation, creating change and making a difference for people living in poverty. We now have a direction. Now is the time to make this a reality.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1071	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much, Minister Isabella Lövin, for your speech! I also thank her for explaining something about how the government views aid. But unfortunately I can only note the intention that Isabella Lövin here says is long-term and anchoring is not real. I can't see it really exists. It seems like empty words to me. If the Government really wants a foundation in the Riksdag too, the Government would have arranged to invite the Alliance's representatives on aid issues to a discussion and a discussion. This has not been done. How, then, can it be said here that it is widely anchored and that it should be long-term? In order for it to be long-term and broad anchoring requires a deliberation. Communication with the opposition parties is also required. It's necessary. It's been missed. I do not think the description is correct that the miracle should now happen and now it should be long-term and orderly. No, you have forgotten that there are more parties than the Green Party and the Social Democrats. There's a lot more of us. In addition, my questions still remain. They're still there. What's the priority? How will it be done and with whom? How will it be followed up? How should the Riksdag be given an insight and opportunity for follow-up? This should be said something about in the policy framework.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1075	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for the questions! I now have the opportunity to sort them out. Statskontoret directed during your reign when Gunilla Carlsson was Minister of Development very sharp criticism of the government for difficult control systems and a forest of policy and strategy papers that were impossible to follow. Gunilla Carlsson and your government responded by developing an aid platform that was a haste. It was not at all anchored with civil society and aid actors, and you received very strong criticism for this. Now you want to go back to that platform. We have had a very comprehensive consultation process with over 180 feedback responses from aid actors, researchers, civil society organisations and, not least, our partners in developing countries. We have also received a very positive response to the letter that the government has now presented. We have been to Parliament on several occasions and discussed, debated and informed. Here Margareta Cederfelt is now calling for stronger priorities and for this to have been developed in consultation with the Riksdag. I think it would have been extremely difficult, together with Parliament, to evict tough priorities. Now we have a broad framework that sets out methods for and an approach to development cooperation that is sustainable in the long term and is consistent with internationally agreed principles. We also include humanitarian aid as well as the perspective of children's rights and migration, which you did not have in your aid platform.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1079	Mr. Old President! I shouldn't be surprised, but I still get it every time I stand here in the pulpit and take lines on some minister. I'll say the same thing again. You are not answering the questions on the part of the government, but you are attacking. You follow the principle that attacks are the best defense. It's not like that. The best way for you is to tell me what you want. You claim something like that, for example, that these are tough priorities. No, it's not. What it is about is that the government should be able to give a small indication and be able to prioritize from this vast document. I cannot see that I have received something in the form of a priority. But it is clear that, in this perspective, all kinds of priorities may seem harsh. Please, give us something to talk about the priorities! You haven't, not at all! I think the Government should take on board the criticism. There is criticism here about the anchoring of the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the KD in our reservation. I have also heard Mr Linde from the Left Party expressing criticism here. There is a criticism in the Swedish parliament. The government should take that on board. We're the ones who are going to review the government. I hope you are aware that we need something that is follow-up. We will not fail to criticise just because there are no targets. The fundamental question then becomes criticism on this point. You must perform. It is important not only for Parliament's sake but for aid to be used where it does the most good and benefits people for a positive development. That's what I'm looking for and that's my priority.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1083	Mr. Old President! We share the view of the priority that it is poor people's perspective on development and poverty reduction that is the whole objective of aid. The priorities that we highlight are clear. It is environment and climate, conflict prevention and peace building and gender equality. These are the three major structural challenges that we see that aid must relate to and orient itself around. Conflicts, climate change and structural repression of 50% of the world's population are the immediate obstacles to poverty reduction and development. This is clearly stated in this letter. Furthermore, we naturally emphasise democracy and the principles of the rule of law. We are also moving forward with the successful collaborations that Sweden has had for a long time in supporting research and developing countries, health and a number of other areas, for example. But perhaps Margareta Cederfelt wants to close in order to be clearer about the priorities. Environment, climate, gender equality and conflict prevention – they are very clear. When it comes to follow-up, the performance report has not changed at all from the framework. We come up with additional instruments dealing with results in the individual strategies where there are results expressed. It is in the budget bill, and the Riksdag can carefully follow this up from much clearer accounting than before. The Government has made eight thematic areas in the budget bill where we report goals, focus and progress towards strategy goals with illustrative examples and financial outcomes per thematic area. It is possible to follow this up, and Sida, like our partners in the multilateral bodies, does annual strategy reports.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1088	Mr. Old President! The Government mentioned very positive things that have happened in our world with the great global processes that have been rooted in ashore. She also gave some concrete examples in areas where success has been achieved, including the fact that more children now have the opportunity to go to school. The Government also mentioned an area in which developments are regressing, and that is respect for human rights and freedoms in our world. In the policy framework, there are many good formulations about the importance of democracy and respect for human rights. But reality is tough, and we see how the government's slogan policy on feminism and morality often clashes with different balances. We saw it during the campaign in the Security Council. We saw it this week when Saudi Arabia was elected to the UN Commission on Women, where the government seems to be without guidelines. I would therefore like the Minister to develop how the new round of aid policy beyond slogan policy and fine words can help to lift people out of the terrible oppression that is only increasing in our world.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1091	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Sofia Damm, for the question. We have a world with very complex challenges. It would be difficult for me to point out a single alexander hem that will solve all the challenges for all the different countries and contexts that exist. This is why the Government clearly emphasises local ownership in the policy framework as a key to achieving long-term sustainable development and long-term results. If it is only from the donor side that we are trying to steer based on our priorities, efficiency is worse. That is something that has been recognised for a long time. In order to gain local ownership, you need to have a broad inclusive ownership. It must not just be about the government and that you only work through the power structures that exist and are probably flawed. They should be strengthened, but the institutions for accountability should also be strengthened. Sweden does so in many cases. We support national audit authorities and anti-corruption authorities. However, we also very much support civil society organisations, journalists and independent media to ensure that there are also actors, an opposition and a living civil society who can make the power accountable. This is absolutely essential if we are to have sustainable development with respect for human rights in the long term. Here we work very extensively with civil society actors in the countries where we see repressive regimes, and there are unfortunately too many. We also see this in developed countries.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1096	Mr. Old President! I'm glad Isabella Lövin is talking about strengthening flawed governments. The policy framework states that democratic development can only be built on free, fair, pluralistic and transparent electoral processes. Working democracy with responsibility, accountability and representativeness also requires a multi-party democratic system. In the speech, the Government mentioned civil society and its actors. I did not hear, however, that the Council of State specifically stressed the importance of responsible representative political parties and a political system. As far as support for political actors is concerned, I often lack statements and also efforts. What we see with less space for civil society players is incredibly serious. If we are fighting for people to be able to assert their rights, which is the basis of aid policy, and for these people to be able to go to the polls and vote, we must at the same time ensure that there are sensible people to vote on. There must be sensible representatives in politics to make life better for the citizens. Would it be possible for the Minister for Development to develop something about how the framework can contribute to a new thinking in terms of support for the development of political democracy, if one can put it that way, in dictatorships and new democracies?
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1100	Mr. Old President! I am thinking immediately of the so-called party-related support, which goes through parliamentary parties in support of sister parties in developing countries. This is a system that remains. In the latest strategy, we have slightly increased the proportion to go to cross-block or cross-party political organisations that strengthen parliamentarism and the building of political parties with democratic values in developing countries. It's an instrument. We also strongly support women's participation in different processes. There I believe that Swedish aid has a very great added value. Supporting, helping and educating women can also enable the latter to enter politics in a different way – from a civil society organisation to a political organisation. We may not from Swedish development cooperation should go in and specifically support certain political parties even if they are in opposition. But we support freedom of expression and the right to participate in elections. We strongly support election observation and the proper conduct of democratic elections. The basis for a democratic election to be truly democratic is also about free press. We are very active there and we support it.
i-ddffc01e6b485468-1103	Mr. Old President! What is the goal of Swedish aid? Today you get different and too many answers depending on who you ask. Even if you read the documents that govern the aid, it is not possible to get a clear picture of what Sweden actually wants to achieve with our generous contribution to the outside world. Today's debate on the policy framework is an update of the Alliance's development policy platform from 2014. Before that, there was only one objective: to help create the conditions for poor people to improve their living conditions. It was the original phrase. During the Alliance, it became more result-oriented and less groundless than well-targeted hopes. The wording was changed to: creating the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. Thus, oppression became a main enemy. We got a steering model for the aid, although the Liberals would have liked the platform to have gone much further in clarifying Swedish ambitions. Obviously policies need to be updated, but from the Liberal side we are critical of how the government has done so in this case. It has also emerged from today's debate that more are. Instead of doing much of something, the government wants Swedish aid to solve all the world's problems. That is how it appears in the policy framework. Mr. Old President! Sweden is a medium-sized country in the EU but a small country in the world. In order to have an impact on our policies, we Liberals believe that we must have the courage to prioritise. Mr. Old President! When the disaster is a fact, Swedish help must come quickly. People living in conflict countries need urgent support. In view of the very difficult situation in Syria and Iraq, Sweden should increase the financial support to the United Nations humanitarian aid agency UNHCR, the World Food Programme, Ocha and Unicef, to name a few. In war, economic growth is broken. When the functions of the state have completely collapsed, nothing can grow. That is why humanitarian aid is so important. It's about life and death. We believe that democracy is the most important key to development and growth, both economic and human. But many of the world's poor live in middle - income countries. Therefore, aid cannot be seen as a redistribution from rich to poor countries. Instead, it is about helping countries deliver to their own population. In many cases, corruption and poor governance are the main culprits in these countries. Sending money right into regimes that put the money in their own pocket is not justifiable. Countries that do not show willingness to improve, such as moving in a more democratic direction and respecting the human rights of their citizens, should be excluded from Swedish aid. More for more principle should apply here. We believe that in the course of democratisation there will be feminist progress. It is democracy that is the key, but in 2015 the democratic development of the tenth consecutive year backslided to the whole world. It coincides with a major setback for women's rights globally. Liberal reforms won by the population are often rolled back when the rule of law collapses and the monopoly of violence gives way. As a result, dependence on men increases, girls cannot go to school, and women find it difficult to make a living on their own. Liberals have a long tradition of gender equality, which also applies to foreign policy. We welcome the introduction of the concept of feminist foreign policy by the Red Green Government. In a world of conflict, women are always losers. It is they who are most affected and their rights that are first withdrawn. If the government wants to reach out with its policies, it must therefore dare to prioritise. Aid to combat poverty should focus on reforms that actually help the poor. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
