i-1ff80da0a15d4325-1	It's time for Question Time. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister Tomas Eneroth. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-3	Madam President, I would like Aviation tax is not an environmental measure, but a travel tax that strikes against accessibility throughout the country and, by extension, against jobs and growth. Several heavy referral bodies, as well as the Swedish Parliament, have repeatedly rejected this proposal, and the Riksdag has even said no. The consequences, as in other countries where this has been tried, are the closure of routes and the relocation of air carriers and their emissions elsewhere. The Moderates have proposed instruments to replace the fuel in the aircraft's tank rather than punishing travel. I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure how, as a newly appointed Minister of State, he can defend moving on in the budget now with a flight tax despite the fact that the referral bodies and the Riksdag are against and that the assessed environmental benefit is marginal but the damage to jobs and growth is great.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Jessica Rosencrantz! The government's view of the airline tax is well known. We think that aviation, like all other modes of transport, should bear its costs. When you drive a car, drive a truck, or even ride a boat or train, you pay for the environmental load you contribute to. This does not apply to flights today. It is reasonable that aviation should also take its share of the burden and contribute to the necessary change. The government shares the view that it is important to also find models to change fuel. We are investing a great deal of money to find a working model and to do the change of fuel that the automotive sector has already done. I think the Moderates are exaggerating the consequences. It's part of the opposition. I think rather that many appreciate that Sweden is once again the world leader in meeting the climate challenge and dare to go ahead where others will then follow.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-9	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The introduction of a flight tax and then a subsidy in the budget for certain airports in Norrland is unreasonable. Flight and accessibility are crucial for people and companies throughout Sweden – also in Kalmar and Karlstad or other parts of the country. The airline tax will be a penalty tax on travellers and not an environmental measure. Does the Government really want to introduce a tax that is so bad that it must be followed by subsidies to certain airports, and why do you only give subsidies to Norrland and Gotland and not to the rest of Sweden?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-11	Madam President, I would like I have no concern that we are strengthening the regional airports that exist, and I find it strange if the Moderates are opposed to this. You have to choose the line in climate policy. The Moderates put forward proposals for congestion tax on trains but, on the other hand, oppose the introduction of the air tax. If we are to have any credibility in climate policy, we need to realise that we need to think about travelling and reward what is good in terms of climate – rail travel and shipping – and ensure that flights are forced to change.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-13	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. At the beginning of the week, Aftonbladet examined society's support for vulnerable women who have suffered recurrent threats, violence, persecution and harassment. It turned out that about 70 percent of those who apply for a restraining order are rejected. To understand that this is a problem, you only need to read about all the cases where women have applied for a restraining order, been rejected and then murdered by their persecutors. The Swedish Democrats have quite a number of proposals concerning precisely such situations, but I will make my question more specific: why does the government not want to make it easier for women to have a ban on contact, and why does the government want to retain fines on the scale of penalties for those who violate a ban on contact?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-15	Madam President, I would like We are currently carrying out huge efforts in law enforcement in general, but also special efforts in terms of how police and prosecutors work with a range of cases. Some of these cases are about sexual abuse and men's violence against women in general. There is, among other things, a requirement for reporting back from the police in relation to the government where the Police Authority will report on how to work with these matters. As far as the restraining order is concerned, we've had an investigation that looked at it. We have a rather tricky system with three different levels of this. One thing we want to develop in particular is the possibility of using electronic monitoring of those who are under a restraining order, that is to say, a anklet to ensure that the ban is actually complied with. Such a proposal will be submitted to Parliament shortly. We are in the final stages of preparing it.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-17	Madam President, I would like That's not enough. The government has actively opposed the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. This is done because there is ideologically justified opposition to accepting a victim's perspective. If you vote for the Swedish Democrats, you will see considerably tougher penalties for the perpetrators who persecute and harass women and restrict their freedom. We understand that there is a value in using more extensive detention measures. That value is measured from a victim's perspective. It is there, Madam President, that the Swedish Democrats and the government repeatedly seem to have slightly different views.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-19	Madam President, I would like That, of course, is completely wrong. It's the other way around. No government has done more, I would say, precisely to support the victim perspective. Victim Support Services have more resources to move with than they've ever had. We have allocated more resources to women's shelters than any previous government has. We are developing the legislation – I just mentioned electronic monitoring of those who have been banned from contact. We will also go to Parliament with further proposals to tighten up legislation in this regard. Even before Christmas, we will be able to submit a referral to the Law Council on consent legislation regarding sexual offences.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-21	Madam President, I would like Last week I was in Habo visiting Wendela and her family. Wendela is 11 years old and has an unusual disease, CCHS, which makes her unable to breathe by herself. Previously, she has had personal assistance 24 hours a day to get help with her breathing and ventilator. If the ventilator stops working, Wendela dies. When it was time for a review, the message was that breathing is not now considered a basic need. When the law was adopted in this House, the idea was not that the law should be interpreted in this way. Now I wonder: When does Minister Regnér intend to make sure that the law is rewritten so that it can be applied as the thought was when it was written?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. What has recently happened is that several indicative judgments have fallen against the legislation on support and service and personal assistance and assistance compensation. The law has been passed in this House, and if disputes arise, according to our constitution, the judiciary will take care of it and then the result will be interpreted and implemented by the authorities and not by us politicians. On the other hand, politicians can ask for a review of the effects of these judgments. And I have. I already did that at the end of last year. And soon I will have a basis to see what can be done. In the meantime, however, municipalities and county councils must enter here. You should not leave people who have great needs in the lurch. It's very important.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-27	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We know that many people are getting their personal assistance withdrawn now. The result is a limited life. And in the worst case, it leads to death. As the Government says, many municipalities have to bear costs. It is estimated that approximately 11⁄2 billion will be transferred to municipalities from the state. Does the Government consider this reasonable?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-31	Madam President, I would like I think it is reasonable for courts to interpret the law. It is also reasonable for authorities to implement what is stated in the law. What we need to look at are the consequences for individuals. If it is in this way that comprehensive medical care is needed, it is a matter for health care. What these judges are saying is that in cases where this is the case, you are not entitled to assistance compensation. But many of these people have very great needs, and we will provide for them.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-33	Madam President, I would like I would like to address Minister Tomas. My question concerns Meråkerbanan, the railway between Storlien and Trondheim. The Norwegian newly appointed government, consisting of Hø yre and the Fremskrittspartiet, has in the budget for the following year removed an investment in this particular railway line, which is urgent from both a Swedish and a Norwegian perspective. At the time, the Minister for Infrastructure, the centre party Åsa Torstensson, and her Norwegian colleague, Liv Signe Naversete, gave the respective responsible authority, for the Swedish part of Banverket, the task of reviewing relations between the countries. This has resulted in a Norwegian venture. My question is: What measures is Minister Tomas prepared to take to support the Norwegian Government?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-36	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether to take any measures to support the Norwegian Government, especially because it consists of Hø yre and the Fremskrittspartiet, which, like its Swedish colleagues, may not always give priority to railway initiatives. I think it is important that we find a way to comply with the agreement that has existed in the past. I note that Per Åsling, Saila Quicklund, who was on my mind about this earlier, and the other Members of Jämtland are strongly committed to this. My ambition is to get in touch with the new Norwegian Government now that it has arrived and have a dialogue on this. It is important for both Norway and Sweden and for our cooperation across borders.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-39	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. I'm sorry that when the time was up and the red light was blinking, I made a mistake. But the government understood the meaning of my question. As I said, it is a matter of both Swedish and Norwegian concern. It is extremely important that the government is on its Norwegian counterpart. Sweden has a good railway up to Storlien. Let us be able to use it all the way down to Trondheim!
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-42	Madam President, I would like I share the view that it is important that we strengthen our border links in many different ways. This applies to the entire national plan from Trafikverket, which is now being consulted. We will make the right investments on the Swedish side, but we will also ensure good contacts for the connections that exist – whether it is Denmark, Norway or Finland. For me, it is a given issue among many to raise when I eventually meet my Norwegian colleague.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-45	Madam President, I would like The Me Too campaign is sweeping the world and Sweden. What has often been spoken silently about now comes to light. Women everywhere now talk about how they have experienced sexual abuse and harassment. It becomes painfully clear that the normal thing is not to be protected but to be vulnerable. The power of the campaign has already allowed men in the media industry to leave their jobs. But the demands for change will not stay there.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-48	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it is fantastic that this is coming to the surface, so that we can have an open discussion about it. Virtually all girls and women seem to have these experiences — abuse, harassment, and harassment. And almost all men know or have known that it exists. Although we are not all perpetrators, it is still a large group that has known about it but has not intervened. So it falls on all of us to try to solve this together. The truth is, if men's violence against women is to stop, it is men who must change. It's as simple as that. Those responsible for the abuse should of course be reported and prosecuted for it. Those who do not stand for the abuse but who see them must have civil courage enough to intervene. There must also be strong legislation at the bottom. I mentioned earlier the sex crime legislation that we are now reforming and strengthening further.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-53	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Justice. As far as legislation is concerned, it is something that needs to come now. It must not stop at just a fruitful discussion that many participate in, throughout Sweden, online and at coffee tables. It must be followed by concrete measures to improve the situation of those who are victims of this. It would be exciting to hear a little more about how the government thinks about it.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-56	Madam President, I would like We have already gone to Parliament with proposals to strengthen legislation on online harassment, i.e. specific measures against online hate speech. For example, it becomes particularly criminalized to post offensive images online. We have made a number of other changes as well. The reform of sex crime legislation, on which there is a legislative referral now before Christmas and then a proposal and entry into force next year, is based on the consent perspective. What is not voluntary is an abuse. It's a very important message that should be in the spinal cord of everyone.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-58	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. The Me Too campaign is important. I am saddened by how many have been affected and how common it is everywhere. But I felt such a force last Sunday when I saw all the manifestations around the country. Tarana Burke who started the campaign also put words on what is important: understanding and empathy. Then we get more people who can tell us and report. I was therefore saddened when I saw a debate between the Government and my party leader, Ebba Busch Thor, in Agenda last Sunday. The government talked more about custody grants than about how to mark against sexual harassment.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Gender equality policy is about changing the relationship of power between women and men. The Me Too campaign has shown that there is still a great deal of power in men who also exploit women by feeling that they have that power. Then we must do something about that relationship. What I said in the aforementioned programme was that if you question abortion legislation and introduce child custody allowance, you are not on the side of those women – as I see it. The government does a lot of things. The Minister of Justice has just explained a number of things: the regulation of consent and new legislation on online harassment. Today, I have also appointed the head of an authority to ensure that what gender equality policy decides on is also implemented, so that people's lives change. I understand that what is being asked for are results, and we have had too little control of it.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-67	Madam President, I would like Politics must provide the tools for change. It's about values, and I want a policy to prevent crime. Legislation must be normative and demonstrate what is right and what is wrong. The Me Too campaign is one way of showing that those who have been subjected are not alone, but that they are seen, heard and understood. Politics should do the same. That is why we should move from words to deeds. It is unfortunate that the assent legislation has been so lengthy.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-69	Madam President, I would like I and the government have recently presented an investment of 1 billion on a package against violence against women with a focus on prevention. These efforts will help to ensure that those responsible for the abuse and harassment – that is, men and boys to a much greater extent than women – have to stop doing so. The law of consent is, of course, an agreement between the various parties. I am also pleased that it is coming forward now. It has in no way delayed time. A community assignment to SJ
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-72	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to the Minister for Infrastructure on the basis of the Government's ambition to get a community mission to SJ. It is quite clear that SJ cannot continue to operate solely as a commercial company if we are to get all trains to go on time, if we are to attract more passengers and if we are to get more people to choose trains instead of cars. A recent example is the situation of travellers from Tierp. They have fallen into a borderline problem in connection with the so-called movingo tickets that have been introduced. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is therefore: How does the process of a community mission to SJ continue? When can it be in place and what can the content be?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. First of all, it is gratifying that we travel much more trains. Therefore, it is also the Government's ambition to pursue major investments in the train systems in the future. In the national plan, which is now being consulted, 75% of investments are in rail. This is needed because the railways have been underinvested for a very long time. In this context, SJ is an important player. SJ is not like any company, it is a state-owned company. It is clear that it is important then to have a particular responsibility. Therefore, we work in the Government Office to ensure that the mission is formulated in a way that gives clarity to the community mission. This also applies to the necessary room for manoeuvre that both management and management need to have in order to operate in a competitive market. The ambition from the government is to come back as soon as possible with a new community mission for SJ.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-79	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer and hope that it will be very soon as possible. I will continue to follow the issue and hope that the government will soon be able to deliver a result.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-80	Madam President, I would like I share the same hope. The ambition is, of course, that it should not take too long. Thank you for asking.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-81	Madam President, I would like My question is with my two trainees Nelly and Emma sitting in the gallery. They attend grade 9 at Jändelskolan outside Karlskrona. The question is addressed to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. This issue, too, is about the Twitter campaign me too. It has opened a door to a room of silence around sexual harassment and abuse. The Government itself has testified to some of its experiences. I too have been exposed, and young girls like Nelly and Emma have told me about their experiences of this. It is not only women and girls, but also non-Binary men have been exposed. Darkness is great. These are words, complaints, touches and even abuse that have crossed a line, far too far.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-85	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President. I've been taken by the power of this campaign. I have worked with gender equality issues throughout my adult life and know about reality. But you still get taken by many of the testimony. I think it is good and actually liberating that one can talk about the fact that there is everything from women's contempt to severe abuse. I also think that the response from society has been interesting and good. Different industries and sectors have turned light on themselves. I and the Minister for Employment have already invited parties and organisations to go through the current legislation, where it is clear who is responsible, how it works and what perhaps needs to be done more to review that area. Then I have already explained that we have made many proposals to curb and put an end to violence against women, which is the objective of equality policy. Today, I have also appointed the Head of the Gender Equality Policy Authority to ensure that it is also the result of the efforts we make in the area of gender equality.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-90	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for your answer. This is the title of an article in today's Blekinge County Newspaper: Those who tell you about this are two 16-year-old girls. They saw harassment around them already in middle school. When it comes to children and harassment from teachers towards students, shouldn't the Government talk to its government colleague Fridolin?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-93	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to say that I have already done so. Only last Friday I received an action plan, a manual that we send out to all schools. It is about exactly that, how to prevent sexual harassment and abuse where appropriate, and how to deal with it if and when it happens. We go through social area for social area when it comes to gender equality. We are a feminist government and we are serious.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-96	Madam President, I would like My question is of a general political nature. As is well known, Sweden is currently contributing an educational effort in Iraq to support the fight against IS. In recent times we have seen how the Iraqi Government, supported by Iranian-supported Shiamis, has attacked Kurds in northern Iraq. The Kurdish Peshmerga forces have had no choice but to withdraw as the Shiamilis have had access to modern American tanks, tanks and weapons. As a result, Kurdish homes have been burned down and tens of thousands, perhaps up to 100,000 civilians, have been forced to flee. Only last spring, the government considered that the effort that has previously been focused on supporting the Kurds in northern Iraq would also include other parts of the country. I would like to know whether it is really reasonable for the government to support the Iraqi Government after this.
i-LVFCscxV5JY9ZeHcC9fGzj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for an important question! Now the situation in most of the Middle East, also in that part of Iraq which Markus Wiechel refers to, is, unfortunately, extremely worrying. It changes from day to day. Sweden will be there and has been there. With regard to humanitarian aid, Sweden is one of the largest donors to ensure that people in this very difficult situation receive help and support, not least supplies. We have also provided training for the Kurdish Peshmerga forces. We are trying to cooperate with those forces that want to build peace and development. This, of course, does not support anything about ethnic cleansing.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-102	Madam President, I would like I've been talking about the consequences. They're terrible. As you know, Sweden has provided support for peshmerga, and that is a positive thing. What we have seen is also that IS has taken advantage of this and attacked in several places. If I interpret the Minister correctly, is it the case that the government is willing to continue to support the Iraqi Government?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-105	Madam President, I would like I have to tell you honestly, I am somewhat confused by the question. We have never supported and will never support in any context anything related to IS for the very simple reason that it is a death cult, a criminal sect that does not deserve to exist. As regards cooperation with the Iraqi Government or with the Autonomous Community of Kurdistan in northern Iraq, we will continue to contribute to peace and development.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-107	Madam President, I would like In recent years it has become increasingly common for welfare activities to be subjected to crime and economic crime. The home service and activities of LSS have been particularly affected. Not least have we seen it in my municipality of Södertälje. Now, however, we are seeing a new lucrative growing market for criminal actors. It's about the dwellings in the tenancy portfolio. Trade in black rental contracts is increasing rapidly, and it opens doors to money laundering and opportunities to embed welfare systems. It is very difficult for landlords to access this. The only thing that happens if they do is that you lose your lease. And that doesn't matter much when you've already earned hundreds of thousands of dollars. Unlawful second-hand rental is currently not criminal and therefore quite risk-free. My question goes to Minister Baylan: How does the government view this growing problem?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-110	Madam President, I would like Ingela Nylund Watz raises an important issue. This is especially true in this city where the lack of housing has made the black market grow. The government is doing a lot and will soon take a new battery of measures. I think we all recognise the basic problem. It has been built far too little for a very long time, especially when it comes to rentals. The tenancy rights that have existed in the Stockholm area have also largely been privatised under the previous government. The government has appointed an investigator to propose further measures to make it clear that this is not acceptable but also to have consequences. The investigation is due to be completed in a week's time, and of course I cannot anticipate it. However, the directives show that the aim of the investigation is to tighten the penalties for those selling and brokering black contracts. It must be made clear that this is not acceptable.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-113	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased with the answer. Those of us who live in the metropolitan regions and, not least, have young people who, in principle, are completely impossible to get their own lease, naturally think that this is a very important issue for the government to work on. Furthermore, we know that those who are exposed to this, who buy or rent illegally in the second place, are very vulnerable. I am very grateful for the answer.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-115	Madam President, I would like It is clear that many of those who are vulnerable do not really want to be part of this. This is due to the desperation that exists because for a long time very few rental apartments have been built in this city. In addition, some of the rentals have been sold out. The government's policy has been to both clarify and tighten the consequences in this case. We also want to ensure that much more is built. We have set aside EUR 6 billion in the budget that we have proposed to Parliament to ensure that more housing is built. Now the construction has started but it will of course take some time, and therefore it is important that this very thing should not be possible.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-118	Madam President, I would like Trains should come and go on time. They don't. What does Minister Eneroth do about it? Trains should come and go on time, otherwise passengers will be affected, i.e. those who use the railway for freight or their own travel. Swedish trains don't go on time. This is something that commuters and those who use rail for freight transport are painfully aware of. The delay for trains in our country is placed and takes its position among the worst in Europe.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-121	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson! Train's on time. If trains are to go on time and if passengers are to arrive, political responsibility is also required by investing in the rail system and in railway maintenance. For eight years, we had an alliance government that prioritised tax cuts and other things before investing in things that build a country strong, before investment in education, housing investment and, not least, investment in infrastructure and railway maintenance. We are now providing funds for railway maintenance – 1.34 billion in the current budget. In the forthcoming plan we have a 47 % increase in rail maintenance. And we are making huge investments: 75% of the national plan goes to the rail system. It is necessary for trains to be able to go on time. This is done together with operators taking responsibility for safety and reducing track running and other efforts to reduce congestion attacks. We act, but we also take financial responsibility for making investments.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-125	Madam President, I would like It may be the Government's forgiveness because he is new to his position, but during the period 2006–2014 the state resources for maintaining the Swedish railway network actually doubled. In addition, the tax on people's work was reduced. It was a possible and good combination. But that is not what the question was about, the Council of State. It's about trust. People must be able to trust the railways to use them. What makes the Government more concrete than providing resources, on which we fully agree?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-127	Madam President, I would like It is about EUR 100 billion more for infrastructure investment in the budget we have now than it was during the time of the alliance government. So there are more resources now than before. More resources are also being spent on railway maintenance. In addition to this, there is a group of railways to which I call the actors together to make careful efforts to increase the punctuality of rail traffic. Such an effort is, of course, a better planned railway maintenance where the Finnish Transport Agency has an obligation to consult better with railway operators. In essence, however, it is a question of what resources are available. That's where we're shooting at funds.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-129	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson. I was at an arms dealer's house a week or two ago. He felt great despair that the processing times for weapons licences are still very long. He pointed out that a normal purchase today is about 25 000. For the company, about 100 cases are in the pipeline, which means that they may have to wait for 2 1⁄2 million. They should only have to wait four weeks, but it takes eight or ten weeks today. I also met a young guy from my home country Östergötland who was there to pick up his first weapon. He was also in despair because he had waited 12 weeks to get his gun license. Is it reasonable, Minister, to have to wait 12 weeks to get a gun license?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-133	Madam President, I would like Of course, we must be able to ask for the matter to be dealt with as quickly as possible. That also applies to the police. When it comes to the processing time for arms licences, what was put forward is correct. There have been very long processing times. Fortunately, I can see that the average processing times are now actually falling. We will probably continue to see such developments as we strengthen the police organisation. We'll make the money available to the police by 2 billion next year. We will also increase the number of employees significantly next year. The advantage of part of this management is that it can be handled by civil servants. Then you don't have to wait for police officers to graduate. As I said, we are sending more money to the police so that it can investigate more, clear up more crimes but also shorten the processing times for, among other things, these matters.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-136	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I can understand if there will be longer processing times when someone will get their first gun license. That's reasonable. But wouldn't it be smart if you were there for perhaps the second or third time and wanted a licence for a weapon of the same class, if the arms dealers themselves could issue such a licence? If one has misbehaved and has not handled one's gun license in a good way, committed some crime or similar, one has probably already lost one's gun license. Why, then, would the arms dealer not be able to issue licences?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-137	Madam President, I would like It is simply a matter of security. I think I would advise against changing the rules that way. I am anxious that we have control over this. We shall, on the one hand, combat the illegal weapons that are on the market and, on the other hand, have control over the legal weapons. They can also be used in different ways and come into the wrong hands. I am not prepared to make such a change.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-138	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, Försäkringskassan provided a new forecast for the development of its areas of responsibility, including, of course, assistance compensation. It is about people who need the support of society most. This is a repetition and a continuation of the direction we have seen in the latest budget forecasts. Fewer and fewer people are currently entitled to assistance compensation from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, and for each forecast they make a new assessment that shows that the development continues – there are fewer and fewer. Two and a half persons a day decreased the number of persons eligible for assistance by the summer months, and the decrease is stable over two. My question to the Government is: When will the government come to realize that we need to make a change of law? That's the only way we can restore the LSS. That's the only way we can save our most important freedom reform.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-141	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Henriksson for the question. What the honourable Member describes is the result of judgments that have fallen in relation to the legislation on assistance and service and in relation to assistance payments. This is a law of rights. In the event of a dispute, an interpretation must be made in court, and guidance decisions must be given by the authorities. That is the order that we have in Sweden. We are a rule of law and must have it that way. However, I have asked for analyses of the effects of these judges to find out more. What kind of groups is this, and what does the pattern look like? It is not possible to write legislation on a case-by-case basis, although I find them very painful. Municipalities and county councils must offer support to people with great needs. You can't pull away. The Government has also contributed funds to municipalities and county councils. In December, I will receive documentation that I have ordered about this.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-143	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that our authorities should comply with laws and the interpretation of laws. But for us Christian Democrats it is quite clear that the change in case law that has taken place means that we have to take political responsibility and change the law. The legislation we have had no longer works as it worked just a few years ago. A new sentence that came this summer will affect another 6 000 out of the 15 000 who have assistance compensation, says Försäkringskassan. It's an emergency.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-144	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why I asked for the supporting documents before the beginning of the year; I knew that the judges had arrived and that these effects would arise. But if you are to prepare a bill, it must be accurate and of good quality. I suppose the legislator agrees with that. As we have discussed several times in committee, we are in close contact with the Social Insurance Agency, which will provide these supporting documents in December, to see what can be done further. In the meantime, municipalities and county councils must enter.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-146	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Coordination and Energy Ibrahim Baylan. Energy prices largely affect the entire Swedish population. There is a natural monopoly in the electricity grid market, where customers are referred to a certain electricity grid company. Now electricity grid prices have increased over a number of years. Between 2012 and 2017, prices increased by over 22 per cent. At the same time, we are well aware that there are major investment needs in the electricity grids. The Swedish Energy Market Authority has been tasked by the Government to propose changes in the regulation based on this, among other things. What will happen now that the Energy Market Inspectorate has submitted its report? Will the government proceed with the proposals in the report?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-149	Madam President, I would like I thank Patrik Engström for an important question. I think that many of the young people sitting in the stands are not really aware of what the system looks like, so I'll describe it. Today we have a system that is a natural monopoly. Therefore, it is not free pricing, but we have an authority that regulates prices based on the electricity law passed by Parliament and the decree adopted by the government. This is done every four years. The current system is based on the regulations and laws adopted four five years ago. Unfortunately, the result has been appealed in court. As a result, energy companies have been able to raise prices quite a lot. Now it's a different order. The Energy Market Inspectorate has proposed a rather strong tightening up. The proposals are now submitted for consultation. I can't wait to see that we're moving forward. Precisely how we will of course decide after the consultation is completed.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-152	Madam President, I would like Can the Government say anything about future timetables for implementing planned changes?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-153	Madam President, I would like Now we will have a consultation in accordance with the practice. The government will then proceed with what can be decided by decree. Of course, what cannot be decided by decree will be submitted to Parliament in the form of a bill. It is my ambition to get through this before the stop on 20 March.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-155	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. Mental ill-health among children and young people is a growing problem in Sweden. Children and young people end up between the chairs. Social services, student health, child and youth psychiatry, Sis – no matter what it is about, children and young people end up between the chairs. We see drain pipes between municipalities, county councils and the state. There are many alarms and reports about this. In its annual report, Bris states, among other things, that many of their conversations with children and young people are about mental illness. The lack of equivalence in healthcare is a major problem. The queues and waiting times are very long, especially in children's and young people's psychiatry. There is no easy solution to this, but what concrete reforms does Åsa Regnér intend to take forward in this area to reduce children's and young people's mental illness?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-158	Madam President, I would like I thank Jenny Petersson for a very important question. It is important to work hard here. It's about both resources and organization. As far as resources are concerned, we have strengthened social services in particular with regard to social care for children and young people, which has been very neglected. The previous government had not invested any resources in it, even though it knew that it was very fragile at the time, with a lot of work and too little staff. We also strengthened in the latest budget bill the resources for psychiatry, not least child and youth psychiatry. We have also strengthened student health. This is one side of the matter. Another aspect of the matter is different types of cooperation. Among other things, we have a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare to come up with proposals on how to much better support children who are in the most serious mental illness situations. This applies to psychiatry, but not today, for example, the National Board of Institutional Affairs.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-161	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Regnér for her answer. I do not agree with the image of resources under the alliance government, but there should be another discussion in an interpellation debate. The Minister addresses the issue of children and young people in community care. As far as Sis is concerned, what has happened there has been reported. It is clear that there are major shortcomings in the behaviour of social services with the absence of child and youth psychiatry.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-164	Madam President, I would like Yes, I do. I think it's necessary. It is not the best order for children who have the greatest psychiatric problems to come to the State Department Board. This is not because of the State Department Board, but because it is a different form of care that is needed. That is why I have asked for a basis for this, and if we have a common understanding of this, I just think it is very good. It's a serious question.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-165	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to ask Minister Regnér a question. Last week, we learned through media accounts about 13-year-old Jasmine, who chose to take her life while she was at Rebekah, a nursing home of the National Board of Institutional Affairs, where young people are being enforced. This is important. What can't happen now is happening. When the state takes over care responsibility, children should also be given the very best care. It is clear that care and support are lacking for these children and young people. Spontaneously, I feel that it becomes clear that Sis may not be an optimal form of placement for these children and young people who are usually girls. Rather, they should have received care in child and youth psychiatry. Of course, this is not easy. But some form of change has to happen. Therefore, my question is: what can the government do because what happened to Jasmine does not happen again?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-169	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. I've already talked about resources. It was a neglected area, and it's needed. You have to start with early intervention. You have to see the child at all, even if it is girls who may not speak much. I am not talking about the individual case. Children must be seen in the situation they are in. I believe that the change in which we make the Convention on the Rights of the Child will strengthen the voice of children when decisions are made on children. But you have to have the right stakes in the whole chain of school, social services and so on. In addition, even before this happened, we have given a mandate to the National Board of Health and Welfare to produce proposals for a form of child and youth psychiatry dealing with day care that is more suitable for the group we are talking about here, without going into exactly what happened.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-174	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I really look forward to the National Board of Health and Welfare returning with the mission of integrated care. I would like to stress the importance of cooperation on these issues with these children. There must be other solutions for these children than Sis and care in private. Social Services and psychiatry must be better at caring for and cooperating with these children.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-175	Madam President, I would like I agree with that. This is an issue in which all the efforts of society must work together. Is there anything more important than children's health? No, actually, it doesn't. We need to be better at doing the right things early. We work on it in many different ways.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-176	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Tomas Eneroth. Since the Social Democrats, in the very big mess that prevails in Stockholm together with the Left Party, the Feminist Initiative and the Environmental Party closed the discussion on an eastern connection, the questions about how to manage the infrastructure in Stockholm in the future are very complicated. Madam President, I would like It is about that the Stockholms spend eleven days a year sitting in traffic queues. This is predicted to be much worse. By 2030, the region's population will increase by half a million people. Estimates show that there will be about five times worse queue situations in the future.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Right now, the proposal for a national plan is on the table. I have been very clear that I will not comment on individual subjects during that time out of respect for the consultation bodies. Only yesterday we had all the county planners invited. It was all representatives of the counties who had to prefer their different requests for infrastructure investments. There I noted that in Niklas Wykman's region there was agreement – not on the priority of an eastern link but on the priority of some other infrastructure projects. It has been withdrawn from the plan, not least because the Swedish negotiations have ended there. Again, I will not comment. I look forward to everyone making their views known during the consultation period. We will come back together with a proposal that the Government will decide on in March April of the following year.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-185	Madam President, I would like Yesterday was a pleasant day in that it was stated that an eastern connection was important not only for Stockholm and the immediate surroundings but for the entire Mälardal region. Of course, we are very happy about that. We who live and work here in Stockholm are used to having S-marked Stockholm anti-governments with high taxes and few investments. But when we see this before us already by 2030, the question is still, Tomas Eneroth: Can you really rest on the message when we are expected to have five times worse problems by 2030 than today?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-187	Madam President, I would like If I were to use the same rhetoric, I could say that we in Sweden are used to bourgeois governments wasting resources on tax cuts and allowing unemployment to skyrocket and thus impair the conditions for making sensible investments in infrastructure. Here I have many questions about the train ride. The Swedish people want us to go more trains. It is also given priority by Moderates around the country. It is important that we make the right investments that meet the climate challenges instead of making proposals on congestion taxes on trains or other things that the Moderates are currently doing.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-190	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister Baylan. The school will give all children and young people the opportunity to realize their dreams no matter where you live or who your parents are. We know that increased housing segregation and free school elections have contributed to increased segregation. The school has previously been a meeting place where the lower nurse's children have been classmates to the chief physician's. Today, the school elections are for some, namely the resourceful ones and those who may already have put their children in the right school queue at BB. In Sweden we have previously had high knowledge results and one of the world's most equal school systems. Therefore, it is very important to highlight the research that shows that if the results are to continue to increase, school segregation needs to be broken.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-195	Madam President, I would like This is a very urgent issue that the honourable Member raises. I am absolutely convinced that it is basically impossible to build an equal and fair society if we have a school system where differences are increasing and where education and educational outcomes increasingly depend on the educational background of your parents. Sweden has had a negative development for some time. This can be changed. In that case, investment in the school itself must be a priority. We have had a period where this has not been the case. It is clear that then the students who most need the teachers' teaching and time will be those who fall behind. From day one, the government has given priority to investing in schools. We have invested an extra 11 billion in general to strengthen the Swedish school. We can see that the teacher density is increasing. But we have also pinpointed precisely those schools that have the greatest need. We will continue to do so in the budget that will now be discussed by Parliament.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-198	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. We can see that the School Commission had several very good proposals in the area of equal school. It is therefore very regrettable that the bourgeois parties do not stand up for the proposals made by the School Commission.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-200	Madam President, I would like Since we are keen to ensure that the Swedish school becomes more equal, we will pursue a great deal of the proposals proposed by the School Commission, based on research and proven experience. One of them is to devote considerable resources to strengthening the schools where the needs are greatest. In the budget that Parliament is about to deal with, there are 6 billion earmarked precisely for this purpose. It is a direct proposal from the School Commission, and the government is already moving on with it.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-203	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. The proposals of the now known or notorious Reepalu investigation are ordered by the government. In practice, they mean that profit bans on welfare companies will apply. A majority of these companies are run by women. Nearly 7 000 women run healthcare companies. It is as much as 71% of elderly care companies that have a woman as a business manager. The Equality Minister has indeed appointed an equality authority and also a Director-General on the ground. But I would like to ask the Minister for Gender Equality: how do these proposals rhyme with the so-called feminist government's gender equality objectives of an equal distribution of power and influence and economic equality?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-206	Madam President, I would like I think it is good to have both private and public alternatives in health care. It is of course very good if women like men run companies there. Many of the healthcare companies owned by larger owners are run and run by men. I'd like it to be women. There is no contradiction with Mr Reepalus's proposal or in any other way. On the other hand, we have great differences in the view of women's and men's work. Unfortunately, the fact that there have been more private alternatives in health care has not led at all to better conditions for women, as was claimed and put forward as an argument when it was in favour of introducing private alternatives in health care. So that is not the case. There is no difference – unfortunately. That is why we need a gender equality authority to keep track of this and to tell us which direction the development is going and what else to do. You have opposed the proposal, and I hope you will change your mind.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-209	Madam President, I would like It was an exciting speech from the Minister for Gender Equality, not least when it comes to the last. Seven out of ten students of nurse, midwife or physiotherapist, all women-dominated educations, think it is important to be able to choose what type of employer you have – private or public. Gender equality certainly, but not at any ideological price – is that the answer from the Minister for Equality to these students?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-211	Madam President, I would like If you want to achieve equality, you have to be in favour of proposals that aim to lead to equality. On the part of the Moderates, we always see opposition to all proposals whose aim is to introduce equality. I think it is good to have private and public alternatives in health care, but the fact that we have private actors in this market has not contributed to better conditions for women or men working there. We have not had greater equality in terms of wages, working hours and so on.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-213	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. In June, the investigation into camera surveillance presented its report. One of the conclusions of the investigation was that the police should remain in possession of a permit examination for camera surveillance. The investigation proposal has been met with widespread criticism, not least from the police themselves, which believes that the licensing process is both too complex and too time-consuming for the authority to be able to conduct effective camera surveillance. It can also be noted that the government itself has said that it wants to replace the authorisation requirement for camera surveillance with a notification obligation. It is urgent that this should be done urgently. We know that camera surveillance is both important to create greater security in society and extremely effective not least in investigating crime.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-217	Madam President, I would like Unlike the previous government, this government has taken many steps, including to ensure that there is a greater use of camera surveillance. I would like to say that right now there are probably more cameras up in Sweden than it has ever done. They are located in Husby, Rinkeby and Tensta. There are cameras set up in Ronna this month. In Malmö, there are areas where there has previously been controversy with cameras, and there is no longer any conflict about this – just to mention a few examples. The government has said that in order to support this development, we also want to reform the legislation and make it easier when it comes to testing camera surveillance and where to set up the cameras. That is why we will come to Parliament with such a proposal. We're in the process of preparing it right now, and we're running out of referral time. Then, at the next stage, one can discuss taking another step and testing the permit examination itself. But we will have to do that at a future stage. In the first stage, it is a question of better rules for camera surveillance in places that are particularly vulnerable to crime.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-221	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised that the Minister of Justice has presented it as being the government that has been driving to strengthen the police's possibilities for camera surveillance. I suppose the Minister of Justice knows that it is Parliament that has announced to the government that action is needed on this issue. Finally, the issue of camera surveillance was also the subject of discussion in the broad agreement that we have in an in-depth work against terrorism. One of the points there is that there should be better conditions for the police to conduct camera surveillance.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-224	Madam President, I would like I'm glad we agree on that now. But it wasn't like that before. When I was chairman of the Committee on Justice and was in opposition here, we did not get through our requests from the Social Democrats when we wanted to open up to more camera surveillance in particularly criminal places. You were against it at these times. It is under this government that this is happening. We set up the investigation. I'll take care of the investigation results. We will go to Parliament with proposals for a legislative change. We have also raised the question of whether to review the requirement for authorisation as such and replace it with something else. There, too, we are prepared to move forward.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-227	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. Last week I met two police officers working against prostitution and human trafficking. Their description of the victim's vulnerability was both frightening and upsetting. The police said that it is no longer just middle-aged men who are the typical sex buyer, but that today it is also very young guys who buy sex. In addition, young people in Sweden are lured into prostitution through new online pages. Prostitution and human trafficking are both a class issue and a gender equality issue. The vulnerable are, above all, women and children living in poverty. They must be protected. But it is men who buy sex that is the real problem. Sex purchases are illegal in Sweden. Therefore, there must never be anything normalizing.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-231	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important question! This is a priority in the field of gender equality. Among other things, the government has presented a package against violence against women of 1 billion. There we have special efforts that are about men and boys getting involved in the gender equality work and that in different ways you educate in gender equality knowledge, respect, sexuality, how to handle relationships and how to look at each other. It is because the legislation is designed in a way that focuses on demand. You shouldn't buy other people's bodies in this community. We have set up an ambassador working on these issues vis-à-vis other countries because this is also a global and very cynical industry. We usually raise the issue in different ways in the UN context; I have included it in the Security Council. It is also important that new arrivals in Sweden know what applies here.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Speaking of the ongoing me-too campaign, which highlights precisely the problem of sexual abuse and abuse, I think it all goes together. It is about attitudes towards porn, sex purchases, objectification and exploitation of women and children, abuse and abuse. The minister himself has been active in the campaign. I therefore very much hope that the government will work actively on this so that we can prevent sex purchases and abuse.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-237	Madam President, I would like The campaign shows that there is unfortunately a derogatory view of women in Sweden and a woman's contempt. We have to fight it. You can't have a society where men think that women aren't worth anything so that ultimately it can also be okay to buy sex. We have legislation against that. We are working in many different ways on this, and it will also be a task for the new authority we will soon have to work on these issues.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-239	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Morgan Johansson a question. According to a survey carried out by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, many industries are exposed to crime. 31 000 traders have answered questions as to whether they feel that crime affects companies. More than half of them feel that crime is a problem for them, and one third feel that it has become worse in recent years. The worst affected sectors are agriculture, forestry, fisheries, transport and trade. Skåne is particularly vulnerable. There are many farms there, and daily several tons of goods are transported on the Scanian roads. Skåne is close to the continent, and there are many possibilities for the export of stolen goods through the Scanian ports or the Öresund Bridge. Many traders feel insecure, and action must be taken.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-243	Madam President, I would like The first thing we must continue to do is to make sure that the police are strengthened. That is why the government is going in with as much resources as we are now doing: 2 billion already next year, 2.3 billion the following year and 2.8 billion the following year. So we can make sure to expand the police's operations and total suit. We say there will be 10,000 more employees in police operations by 2024. I think this is one of the most important elements. I follow what happens in the police organization month by month. What is pleasing is that we are now beginning to see how the police are investigating more and more crimes. For the first time since 2009, more cases are reported to prosecutors this year than in the previous year. Thus, for the first time since 2009, the number of investigations reported to prosecutors is increasing. This is an important signal, and it probably shows that the reorganisation of the police is now starting to take a proper stance and is now working better than before.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-246	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, the police are the key. But there are already major resource shortages in the south of the police region, for example, because several police officers who would have been out in the municipalities are now commanded to Malmö to help combat the criminality that unfortunately thrives there at the moment. The non-presence of the police in the other municipalities gives gangs and criminals the opportunity to operate almost freely. The situation is unsustainable and action needs to be taken, measures that we cannot wait for.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-247	Madam President, I would like I'm familiar with the South Police Region. It's my police region in a way. I visited Malmö and met the police there a month ago. I visited the police in Helsingborg last week. I think I have a pretty good picture of what it looks like. One thing we have done in addition to strengthening economics is that we have tried to extend border controls. Anders Hansson was into this when it came to counteracting the criminal gangs that come from outside and steal. I think it's very effective.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-249	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ibrahim Baylan. A few years ago, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise carried out a survey among its member companies about the importance of electricity at competitive prices in Sweden. Unexpectedly, many companies considered this to be a decisive competitive factor. In the same investigation, it was asked whether the companies had been informed of what could happen in a situation where partial switch-off of the electricity grid is due to a shortage of electricity. It was 89 per cent of enterprises that said no to it, and 86 per cent of enterprises had no plan to deal with a longer power outage. Given that well-functioning nuclear power is now being extinguished in Sweden, with the risk of increased power shortage at cold cracks this winter, my question is: What has the Government done to increase awareness among the public and companies about the consequences of a partial switch-off of electricity supply in Sweden?
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-252	Madam President, I would like Let me start by informing Lars Beckman about the energy deal we have met together with the Moderates, Christian Democrats, the Center and the Government parties, where both today and in the future we aim to have large electricity surpluses and that Sweden will be a net exporter of electricity just like today. We have very good conditions for that now that we have a cross-block energy policy deal that provides good and long-term conditions. Then the question is: how have we ensured that industry, for example, is involved? Yes, ever since the government began its work at the beginning of its term of office, we have had an intensive dialogue with industry as well as representatives of different sectors and also the public to discuss and inform about the conditions that exist in our electricity system. I would like to say that, both in politics and in society as a whole, we have never had as much knowledge as we have today.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-255	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government says that the business community knows very well how to deal with a possible shortage of electricity in winter if it becomes a cold snap. But the reality is that nine out of ten companies do not have a plan for this and do not know how to act when partially extinguishing the electricity supply in Sweden. The government now has a few months. If there is a cold snap in February, as it was a few years ago, it is important that there are plans for this out in the companies.
i-1ff80da0a15d4325-257	Madam President, I would like I must say, however, that the honourable Member does not seem to have followed the development of energy policy. There is now quite a great deal of consensus in Parliament, and I believe that this is a strength for our country. Add to this that the government and the government authorities are of course working to ensure that we have electrical readiness and good conditions to cope also cold snaps. In addition, I will again call the nuclear and hydroelectric companies to inform them about the situation for the winter.
