i-1989b103345f6cba-5	Mr President, I would like to As Jessica Polfjärd is unfortunately ill today, I have the honour to take care of both the debate on AU2 and AU4. I am going to deal with these two reports together and would therefore like to say right now that I am going to exceed the time allocated to me. The Moderates' draft budget is a coherent whole, and it is presented in our budget motion, which includes the Alliance's economic policy guidelines. Since Parliament has supported the Government's proposal for a financial framework and focused on budgetary policy, we are not taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations. Instead, we refer to our specific opinion on the distribution of appropriations and the proposals presented by the Moderates in their budget exercise. This means, briefly, that in Category 14, we limit expenditure by approximately SEK 8.5 billion. Of course, the Moderates are also behind all our own and alliance-wide reservations and specific opinions in the AU4. For time-winning and to facilitate the possibility of Members' forthcoming Christmas leave, I only ask for reservations 1 and 2 in the AU4. Mr President, I would like to The labour market is a key issue for every welfare country. They are strong companies and those who work with their taxes pay all our welfare, our security and our pensions. Sweden is a small export-dependent country, and no government controls the world economy. But each government has a very big responsibility to try to counteract the negative effects of a recession and use a boom to equip Sweden for the next recession. Each government should be judged on how to achieve this. During the time of the Alliance, we first had a boom and then an extremely deep recession and financial crisis. In the first few years of strong economic activity, unemployment was pushed back, and government finances were strong with good surpluses. Important reforms against the great exclusion were carried out, and we were well equipped when the financial crisis struck. Sweden also managed the financial crisis better than most other countries and, after all, unemployment remained at manageable levels. We received much praise from international assessors in dealing with the crisis. Today's government took up a strong global boom, which has only grown ever stronger. The government is also very good at highlighting the positive effects of this boom. However, reducing unemployment and increasing employment are natural. If the opposite had happened in a boom, it would have been extremely bad. Unfortunately, the picture is not as positive as the government seems. Despite the extremely strong economic boom, unemployment is at an alarmingly high level. According to the Swedish Employment Service's latest report, 7.4 per cent are unemployed. It is a marginal decline compared to a year ago. In total, the number of unemployed persons in one year has decreased by only 7 02 persons in Sweden as a whole. 702 people do not even correspond to half of the population at home in my village Ubbhult. So much has been reduced in one year. More than 360 000 unemployed are currently registered with the Employment Service. SCB measures differently and reports an unemployment rate of 6.7 per cent, which is the same as one year ago. Long-term unemployment is also troubling. Today, the Employment Service has registered 151 000 people who have been unemployed for over a year. That's 5,000 more than a year ago. Those who have been unemployed for more than six months are over 10 000 more than a year ago, and this in a strong boom. The government ministers also sound as if youth unemployment has almost disappeared, but that is not the case. According to SCB, youth unemployment is almost twice as high as total unemployment. The Employment Service reports a youth unemployment rate of over 10 per cent. Among young people born abroad, unemployment has increased by 17 per cent over the past year. Despite the boom, nearly 1 million people today are excluded and dependent on benefits. Many are u trikes born. There are 130 areas where less than half of working age work, and today only half of new arrivals have a job after nine years in Sweden. In October, the unemployment rate of foreign born children was over 22 per cent, while that of domestic born children was under 4 per cent. This is an extremely large job gap, which the government does not seem to take seriously. And then you should know that a large part of the new arrivals that came to Sweden in 2015 and 2016 are still not visible in the statistics. Yet it looks like this – in the midst of a boom. Sweden is also less successful with unemployment than the rest of the world. The Government's goal is for Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. However, unemployment has fallen significantly more among EU countries on average than in Sweden during this term of office. Eurostat's statistics show that unemployment among EU countries has fallen significantly more than in Sweden. By comparison, a quarter of unemployment in the EU has disappeared, but in Sweden it is only one eighth. In Germany, for example, unemployment has fallen from 5% to 3.7%, and we are talking about the total. When the Alliance handed over government power, Sweden was in the twelfth place in the EU in terms of the lowest unemployment rate, and the unemployment rate was as high as 2.3 percentage points below the EU average. Today, Sweden has slipped down to a fifteenth place, and our unemployment is now not much lower than the EU average. This is disastrously bad for a government that made this just its main issue in the 2014 election campaign. The problems in the Swedish labour market cannot be blamed on the many new arrivals either. Many of them, as I said, are still waiting for a residence permit decision and are not included in the unemployment statistics. For those who have entered the start-up assignment, very few have been registered unemployed for a year or more, and they are therefore not among the long-term unemployed. On the other hand, these groups are, of course, a major source of concern. Many people have a long way to go to the labour market, and if the economic cycle at the same time turns downwards, we have major problems ahead of us in the coming years for both the labour market and public finances. Sweden's current government lacks the political leadership and the ability to act to address Sweden's challenges. The policy is characterised by a clear unwillingness to see the problems of exclusion and integration. There are also too few ways into the labour market. No major reform of the future is being implemented, and instead a tax-enhancing policy is being pursued that makes it more expensive to run a business, to hire and to work. All of the government's own expert authorities make the assessment that the government's policies have a non-existent or only marginal effect on employment growth. Instead of taking advantage of the economic boom and equipping Sweden and ensuring that those who are far from the labour market come in, you sit happy and let the economic boom help you hide your failures. Sweden has a major task ahead of it to get especially low-skilled and newly arrived in work and self-support. Whatever one's opinion on the migration issue, it is the task of each government to do everything in its power to deal with the situation. As new arrivals are added to the labour force, policies must also respond with clear reforms. The government's policy shows neither understanding of the problems nor proposals to solve them. The problems are usefully hidden behind the boom, but make up with their passivity for crisis when the economic cycle weakens. Mr President, I would like to Against the government's passivity, moderate politics stands for a much-needed contrast. And in carrying parts the Alliance has a common understanding of what needs to be done. The Moderates have set two very ambitious job goals. Firstly, we want to halve the job gap in the form of the employment gap between domestic and foreign born. Secondly, we want Sweden to be able to create half a million new jobs by 2025. Against the government's proposals in the field of labour market policy are Moderates' balanced budget options in category 14. Our budget represents a saving of 8.5 billion, mainly on the administrative costs of the Employment Service, inefficient labour market policy programmes and reform of the unemployment fund. At the same time, we are investing heavily in entry jobs, efforts to reduce sick leave, improve study and job counselling and summer jobs. I will briefly review our most important proposals. We want to introduce integration and education obligations for newcomers. We want to carry out a major benefit reform, in which time spent on unemployment is somewhat shortened and supports the transition to a new job rather than being a long-term livelihood, and in which we introduce a clearer working line for those who receive social assistance or support by subjecting these subsidies to active job-seeking throughout the country. We want to introduce a grant ceiling so that it always pays to take a job. If a newly arrived family's income can decrease when someone starts working, we have a serious system failure. We want new arrivals to gradually qualify for benefit systems. Full access to benefits and benefits is obtained through one's own work or through permanent and legal residence in Sweden. For more people to work, it must always pay off to work. We want to reduce taxation on labour, especially for those with lower incomes. The cut-off point for government tax should be increased in order to increase the driving forces to work more and train. We want to introduce entry jobs, as we discussed earlier – a fixed-term apprenticeship for newcomers and young people up to 23 without upper secondary school degrees. The aim is for more people to get a foothold in the labour market. We want to triple the ceiling of the RUT deduction to 75 000 per year and extend it to more services. We want to replace Arbetsförmedlingen with a smaller government agency for the exercise of authority, control and follow-up. Matching and equipping the unemployed with training and practice, we want to put out to other established actors. We want to replace existing wage subsidies for newly arrived and long-term unemployed with a new one that is easier for more people to get their first job. There are today people who have been enrolled in the employment services for a long time and who do not get any work or work. We therefore believe that state labour market policy should be limited to three years. The municipalities should then take over responsibility. Mr President, I would like to I think there is reason to be humble. Getting all newcomers into work is probably more difficult than most people realize. Unfortunately, large volumes of low-skilled workers are not compatible with our labour market, which is largely based on highly skilled labour. Although moderate policy is very well thought out and worked out and rooted in both research and experience from the Swedish labour market and reforms during the time of the alliance government, I dare not guarantee that our proposals will be sufficient to solve all the problems of unemployment and integration. The imbalances in the Swedish labour market are very serious, and further measures may certainly be needed. But one thing is clear: the Moderates have clear objectives and a well-thought-out and ambitious policy aimed at achieving the goals. Our policy would make a difference. That is more than can be said of today's government.
i-NxGka5frLC5H22vKnUCxCY	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling in report AU2 for our reservation, the only one in the field of expenditure, and in report AU4, for the approval of reservations 10 and 17. We also have two specific opinions in the AU4. Mr President, I would like to The focus of the Swedish democrats' labour market policy is mainly on three areas where we want to make radical changes. It's about unemployment insurance. We want to introduce a new form of employment, apprenticeships, and this applies, of course, to the Employment Service. Unemployment insurance is an extremely important conversion insurance for all those who become unemployed. Already today, the unemployment fund is mainly financed by tax funds. The Swedish Democrats see it as so important that it should be general and entirely tax-financed and be part of the general social security system. On the other hand, the qualification requirements should be the same as at present. We also believe that insurance should be administered by the Försäkringskassan, to which funds are also transferred. The Swedish Democrats also want to introduce a new form of employment, apprenticeships. This form of employment shall have a framework corresponding to probationary employment and shall have a maximum duration of three years. Time should include both workplace placement and theoretical training. Today, we have about 600 000 adults with no approved upper secondary school grades. Therefore, apprenticeships should be open for studies in both upper secondary and komvux, with 2 – 3 days of work experience per week interspersed with theoretical studies in upper secondary school nuclear materials. The incentive for the employer is a abolished employer's contribution and training support during the training period. It is also hoped, of course, that after the apprenticeship period, the employer will have access to a trained and motivated worker, who can then be offered continued employment under regular conditions. For the apprentice, we advocate a statutory minimum wage during the training period, which is also protected against influence and reductions due to other forms of support. This will then be an incentive for the apprentice. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has repeatedly suppressed Arbetsförmedlingen's results. This also means that the Swedish National Audit Office is to a large extent striking down on the government's labour market policy. Unfortunately, the Employment Service is the government's tool for experimenting on a dysfunctional labour market with poorly prepared and poorly evaluated labour market measures. Criticising the Employment Service is like breaking open doors, but it has to be done; taxpayers have the right to demand much better management of tax funds. For several years, the Swedish National Audit Office has been making serious criticisms of the Swedish Public Employment Service. For example, the Swedish Public Employment Service's preparatory programmes have had a direct negative effect. In other words, those who have received training under the Employment Service have lower future income and lower chances of working compared to those who have been openly unemployed during the same period. This is absolutely horrible! How is that even possible? But more importantly, how can the government allow this to continue? The only answer I can come up with is incompetence and lack of action. Sweden spends the highest proportion of GDP in the EU on employment subsidies. For 2017, the total amount of employment subsidies is estimated at approximately 18.7 billion. With the new announced start-up contracts, this sum will increase significantly. The question we need to address is: What does the money give us? Of course, we Swedish democrats also support certain employment subsidies. For example, when it comes to facilitating access to the labour market for persons with disabilities, the aim is both legitimate and necessary. But there are many expensive and ineffective flops in the government's toolbox. 32,000 trainee jobs were promised during the previous election campaign. The results show that only about 500 people participated in this effort. The government set aside billions for the initiative. With regard to modern preparedness jobs, the Government is committed to the participation of 5,000 people in the operation by 2020. By the end of July this year, just over 500 people had received a modern standby job. Two thirds of these standby jobs have been taken into their own operations by Arbetsförmedlingen itself. Modern standby jobs are also the most expensive per individual. Public employers receive 23 000 grants per month and individual. Despite this generosity with tax revenue, the job seekers do not come out of the effort. Step-in jobs are another expensive story without effect. Around 5 per cent of those admitted to entry-level jobs go on to work that is not subsidised after the intervention. 40% receive another grant contract, preferably a new start job – cost of cost without result. The list of disastrous efforts can be long, but I will not dwell on it. I can only note that, on a direct question to the Director-General of the Employment Service, how many go from the many costly measures and programmes of the Employment Service to non-tax-subsidised work, the Director-General replied that they do not know that. The answer was that such statistics are not produced because they are not requested by the government. However, that is not quite true. Now we know better. If you lussläsa Arbetsförmedlingen's annual report you will find the figure, not printed but well hidden in a graph. If you study that graph, you can find that just under 1 per cent goes from these efforts to a poor tax-subsidised job – 1 per cent. I can see why they're hiding the number. Mr President, I would like to That is also why we Swedish democrats have their own reservation in the AU4, which relates precisely to the need for follow-up and evaluation against the ordinary labour market, i.e. non-tax subsidised jobs. It's extremely important. The match is Arbetsförmedlingen's core assignment, and the Swedish National Audit Office strongly criticises Arbetsförmedlingen in this matter as well. Criticism is devastating. Matching has deteriorated in the Swedish labour market over time. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that Arbetsförmedlingen lacks in both analysis and measures to achieve improved matching – deficiencies in both analysis and measures. For 80 billion taxpayers should be able to expect far more than shortcomings, inefficiencies and failures. The criticism of both employers and job seekers is of such a serious nature that the Swedish Democrats question the authority's raison d'être. Of course, the Employment Service, like all the authorities, works on behalf of the government. But the incompetence of Arbetsförmedlingen is still distinctive. The results are missing regardless of which of the government's reforms we are talking about, and not only that the result is missing, even the Swedish Public Employment Service's analyses are wrong according to the Swedish National Audit Office. Arbetsförmedlingen's constant answer is that they have set up an investigation, an improvement work or, most recently, a renewal journey. Director General Sjöberg is by far the most expensive travel leader in the country; he has leadership consultants in the 100 million class with him on the trip. In June 2017, the Swedish Public Employment Service was again the worst of Sweden's authorities in terms of trust. We see this year after year. The problem is that the overall audits show that the main mission of the Authority – the control mission and the matching – does not deliver results. Believe me – labour market policy can easily cost if it has an effect in the form of regular jobs. That is what taxpayers expect: non-tax-subsidised, regular jobs. We can only conclude that this effect is lacking. The biggest change that the Swedish Democrats want to make in Swedish labour market policy is to abolish Arbetsförmedlingen in its current form. We need to open up to private actors, and then we mean opening up, not letting go freely, for example, during Reinfeldt's time. We should not, of course, attract rogue and criminal private actors, with whom certain programmes at the time were drawn. This must be countered. The system must be linked to a rating system and a control system in line with the system that the Public Employment Service has already launched and tested and is in the process of evaluating. Labour market policy can cost if it produces results. The Swedish Democrats are convinced that a wide range of market players will deliver significantly better results for this 80 billion. The current inefficient labour market policy, with the flagship Employment Service, has reached the end of the road. Mr President, I would like to The Government has set up an investigation to review whether there is a need for more flexible interventions, such as flex jobs, to improve the opportunities for those with reduced work capacity as a result of a disability or illness to get to work or keep a job. The Swedish Democrats welcome the investigation and eagerly await its results. This is something we have been asking for for many years.
i-1989b103345f6cba-65	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is currently in a strong boom. Many companies employ, and unemployment is falling. People who already have a job to go to today are in fact in a fairly safe life. It is not against those we need to focus our time and energy, but against those outside – those who do not get a chance on the labour market, those who are unemployed year after year, those who do not get the prosperity that we are in right now. We must create better conditions for these people so that they can get a foothold into the labour market and the community that it entails. Today we see that the gap between native and foreign born is the biggest in the whole Western world in terms of employment. It is completely unreasonable that this should be the case in Sweden. A new leadership is needed to meet these challenges and create the opportunity for people to enter the community and get a job and a livelihood. It's about people who want to contribute. It is people who want to be part of the community, but today almost 1 million people are in this exclusion. Despite this, the government is often satisfied with what it looks like in Sweden today and that unemployment is falling, although it is as a result of the burning boom that we are currently in. But even though unemployment is falling, we are actually further away from the government's own target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. At the beginning of our term of office, we were in the twelfth place in terms of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU countries. Today we are in sixteenth place. Since the target was set, we have been critical of it for a number of reasons, but if one is to start from the government's objectives, one can see that Sweden is worse than it was at the beginning of the term of office and that other countries' unemployment is falling much faster. What Sweden would need is substantial structural reforms in the labour market in order to get more people to work. It is about the need to pay more to work. Thresholds need to be lowered and matching improved. Regrettably, reforms in this area have shone with their absence during the time of the Red-Green Government. Instead, what we have seen is a classic social democratic policy of action. Then you can ask yourself if it has been successful. No, not really, and I'll give you some examples. Trainee jobs would create 32,000 jobs for young people. In October there were 528 people who had received a trainee job, and in the budget that we are debating today, the government has announced the closure of trainee jobs. Modern preparedness jobs would be 5 000 and, above all, target people with low levels of education. As it has become, 60 percent of the modern standby jobs that have now been assigned have gone to people with post-secondary education. Two thirds are also employed at the Employment Service. The 90-day guarantee, which in the run-up to the elections was a promise from the Social Democrats, meant that all young people would receive a job, an internship or an education within 90 days. This changed when one came into government. Now it is a guarantee of action that leads to jobs, that is, labour market policy measures. During the government's time, the likelihood of getting a job within 90 days has decreased. In 2014, 18 per cent received a labour market policy measure. Now it's 28%. In 2014, 25 per cent got a job within 90 days; now it is 22 per cent. So it is now more likely to be in a labour market policy programme than to get a job within 90 days. Mr President, I would like to On point after point, the government's employment policy has failed. One of the greatest challenges of our time has been faced with inaction and ineffective measures. The fact that unemployment is falling is not thanks to the government, but despite the government. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new leadership for more jobs. There is a need for substantial reforms which make it more profitable to work, which lower the thresholds into the labour market and improve matching. In our budget motion we therefore have proposals to reduce taxes, with a focus on low and middle wage earners, so that it becomes more profitable to take a first job. We also want to introduce job incentives in the support system so that it pays even more to take the first job and move from a grant to a job. Even if it is only a matter of a few hours, you get a foot in the labour market and get needed contacts and important experience. We have also presented, together with the Alliance, a series of proposals for labour market policy in the future, including a proposal for admission to the labour market to lower the thresholds. Through an entry job, it would be possible to employ a young person without upper secondary education or a new arrival to 70 per cent of the entry salary. 30% of working time should go to learning at work or to training. This new form of employment will be valid for up to three years and will not be filled by red tape, which has proved ineffective for the possibility of lowering thresholds for a first job. This is one of several proposals to create better opportunities for people to gain the important experience in the labour market and their own livelihoods. It is not, as we will perhaps hear from the Social Democracy in the speaker's seat later, that we want to lower people's wages. It is about getting one foot into the labour market. It is gratifying that the proposal on start-up jobs put forward by LO and Social Democracy confirms the image that reducing employment costs is important in order to give more people the chance. Unfortunately, this proposal seems to be filled with red tape, and many of the companies that create jobs, small businesses and temporary agencies are not allowed to participate. That's why entry is a better way forward. Mr President, I would like to Matching in the labour market is a major problem, and it does not work well. Companies do not use Arbetsförmedlingen, which should help in the provision of jobs. Few jobs are mediated through Arbetsförmedlingen. We want to phase out Arbetsförmedlingen and instead let private, more specialized actors communicate the jobs. The labour market is not working well for the most vulnerable groups, such as newcomers and young people without upper secondary education. It is Sweden's biggest social problem, and the government has still not presented any answers. To boast that Sweden is doing well and that unemployment is decreasing somewhat as a result of the boom that large parts of the Western world find themselves in is not the right way forward. Reforms are needed, and the government needs to raise its eyes and realise that it has a responsibility for the most vulnerable who are far from a job. This requires the Swedish model to be renewed in order to include more people so that more people have the opportunity to get a first job. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support our proposals, but for time to come, I only support the Alliance's joint reservation No. 1 and the Center Party's reservation No. 3 in AU4. In AU2, we do not take part in the decision but refer to our specific opinion.
i-QzBspVebTUYE1ohiiAMf88	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are discussing two important reports in the same debate, on the one hand the AU2 budget report on the spending area of the budget for the labour market and working life, and on the other hand the AU4 with motions on labour market policy and unemployment insurance. I will start with the budget, which is based on an agreement between the government and the Left Party. The reforms and appropriations put forward in this area are to be seen in the light of the way in which employment and labour market policies were designed under the previous government and the results of that policy contrasted with the shift of key elements of policies that took place immediately after the 2014 elections and what we have now seen for real results in the labour market. It will also be particularly important to make this background statement after we have now heard some quite imaginative and not very fact-heavy contributions about the situation on the Swedish labour market. Mr President, I would like to Over the eight long years with the government of Reinfeldt, we had a completely one-sided understanding of what the government and parliament were going to do to get jobs to increase and the labour market to work more smoothly for people in Sweden, namely lower taxes, especially for those who were particularly well-off, and financial punishment for those who had fallen victim to unemployment or illness. Then there wasn't much more. The employment agency was converted into a procurement centre that would devote most of its bureaucratic strength to withdrawing people's financial resources. Employers were given huge, general and rather ill-considered subsidies. This is what was insisted on calling the work line, almost as a religious mantra. Unemployment was seen not as a socio-economic problem and failure but rather as an individual characteristic, a sort of defect in the unemployed. We are aware of the concrete results. Unemployment remained at a high level, employment rates remained in principle unchanged and youth unemployment skyrocketed. But, above all, there were tangible effects in other ways and in other areas: a dramatic increase in the most precarious forms of employment, a remarkable reduction in unemployment insurance in international comparison, and a reduction in the degree of trade union organisation and hence the ability of the collective worker to safeguard the security, content and dynamism of working life. In addition, differences in income, wealth and access to social security systems grew. These are systemic changes and societal effects that are hard and that still affect our society today. Sweden has been and is one of the world's best countries to live in, but not by chance, but because it has been consciously and laboriously built up with solidarity and cohesion as a directional donor. It is worth defending and developing on that basis, away from inequality and insecurity. Today, when we have the last budget debate in this area of expenditure for the term of office, it is clear that the budgetary cooperation between the Government and the Left Party has produced some clear results. Important elements of labour market policy have been re-established. Both the ceiling and the basic amount in the unemployment fund have been increased, the backlog in health insurance has been removed and the expensive and general reduction in the employer's contribution has been phased out in favour of more targeted and well thought-out initiatives. All of this, which according to the bourgeois dogmas would have disastrous consequences: cost shock, double blow, triple nut and whatever it was, has instead contributed to significantly improved conditions in the Swedish labour market. Unemployment has fallen, especially among young people, the employment rate is the highest in the EU and the growth rate in the economy is good. This morning we also heard that Arbetsförmedlingen has written up an already strong forecast for job growth. Does that mean I'm happy and content? No, it doesn't. The Left would have liked to see a shift in tax policy to redistribute more from those with large wealth and very high incomes. We would have liked to see even greater investment where the needs are obvious. After all, this is what affects unemployment and employment in particular, not the form of labour market policy. But there is no question that politics has taken a new direction, and the facts speak their clear language when this direction is compared to the one in which the Right Alliance led Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, I have some understanding on a general human level that the tone from the right is a bit bitter today and that you are looking for strange angles of approach. But in order to be able to discuss the challenges of the Swedish labour market, it is important not to spread a misleading picture. One should be honest when comparing different types of statistics or making international comparisons and be careful about what is the actual situation and what is the rate of change. You should not refrain from talking about when criticizing a specific statistic if it has become better or worse than when you were in control. A discussion that is very much on the agenda, and which we heard a little from here earlier, concerns how we as a society should deal with the great challenge and simultaneous opportunity it means that we have become more in our country by people having sought refuge here. From the right – the entire spectrum from light green to dark brown – this is now being used in different ways to dump salaries and working conditions in Sweden. This is now and in the future one of the most important issues for anyone who wants to safeguard a modern and productive working life and for a Sweden that holds together and where one's birthplace and hair color do not judge one to heavy and poorly paid jobs and to be scapegoat for all sorts of real or imagined social problems. First of all, there is a real focus here too: yes, it is true that there is a big difference between the employment rate of foreign and domestic born and the unemployment rate. There are various reasons for this: discrimination, a high proportion of refugees among immigrants and different types of educational and experience backgrounds. This is something that it is important to work with in a flexible way. But the image that is quite often given by the right-wing representatives, that Sweden is in some sort of system collapse and disaster state in this respect is actually a fundamental falsity. Although the employment rate is, as I said, lower for foreign born people, it is still the case that those who have lived in Sweden for five years or more work to a greater extent than those born in the OECD on average. And in fact, the employment rate is increasing fastest among foreign born, especially among foreign-born women. These debates are quite frustrating when you shift facts and serious reasoning to the margins of the debate because someone has become obsessed with lower wages and scapegoats of people who have come to Sweden. It is a serious social problem today. With this budget proposal, a broad focus on education continues. This is crucial for large groups that are now going into the Swedish labour market. It is both about those who lack basic education and about those who can use their existing skills and experience in a new way in Sweden with better functioning vocational education and training. In the budget proposal, we also see a simplification of various forms of subsidised employment and a gradual increase in the wage subsidy ceiling. These are not revolutionary changes, but they are good steps in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to What does the Right Opposition want to do? I think it is important for this debate to clarify a little what lies behind the rhetoric that the whole of Sweden should work, as the Moderates write, or a dynamic and free labour market, which the Liberals are into. What is stated in the budget motions put forward by the right-wing parties is many times massive manslaughter at a mass of ordinary people in this country. It is a policy that aims to bring Sweden and the Swedish labour market to a poorer, less free, more disorderly and less modern state. The proposals are sprawling, but that people who have become unemployed should be put at a higher level and that people in low-wage sectors should be pushed to even lower wages are in principle agreed. For example, the Moderates write in their party movement: a high unemployment benefit prolongs unemployment periods because it results in people postponing their job search or making higher demands to accept a new job. If unemployment has arrived, please try those words, which have now been given a little more opportunity to cope with the everyday economy! The Moderates also want to introduce a more distant parentheses for the support available to the long-term unemployed so that even more are forced into municipal support, even if they are involved in labour market policy measures. I quote again: a three-year period of unemployment means that the possibility of benefits other than support for livelihoods will cease. This should be combined with the active pressure on people in this vulnerable situation, i.e. support for livelihoods. This should be combined with a harder grip on long-term illness and a new withdrawal day after 15 days. Other bourgeois parties, too, are in the process of making the unemployment fund worse again, so that more people get less insurance cover and end up in the insecurity that we know is very damaging to the cohesion and economic strength of this country. It is a proposal to reject the necessary increase in the wage subsidy ceiling, which is intended to open up more jobs to people with disabilities, for example. That's a no to the investment in loans for driving licences. It is against the important effort to establish a centre for knowledge and evaluation of health and safety at work, which has been called for by many after the previous government closed down the world-leading Institute of Labour and so on. We have seen in recent weeks what this one-track policy leads to when the social partners have sat down to agree on different solutions to facilitate the entry of newcomers into the labour market, without putting the Swedish wage formation model aside. There has been great agitation in the bourgeois circles. If you can't get a government-prohibited pay cut, it can be. This is actually something of an accident. Mr President, I would like to Since there are often conscious misunderstandings in this area, I would like to repeat myself a little. Not for a moment do I and the Left Party believe that the growing employment is causing us to declare that the job is done. None of what I have said today means that we are satisfied and receded in terms of the situation on the labour market or social development as a whole. There is much more that needs to be done and that can be done in Sweden so that we can get full employment, so that we can continue to get new arrivals in different parts of the labour market, with high productivity and conditions that are not worse than for those who live here since before, so that we will not only get more jobs but also better jobs and that all those who end up in poverty even though they work and work – working poor, working poor – will have a more reasonable life. It is about economic policy and investment. We need to take in more from those who have the most, and we need to invest more, in welfare, in infrastructure, in research and in development. More specifically, in this area of expenditure, we will have to continue to raise both the ceilings and the basic amounts of the unemployment fund. We pushed that question from the Left Party but did not come all the way to this particular budget. Other things we are much happier about, not least the right to deduct the trade union fee – an excellent economic strengthening that at the same time strengthens the Swedish model. Mr President, I would like to In the AU4 report, which is also open to debate, we in the Left Party have two reservations. I support both of them and would like to call for the approval of one, namely reservation 14, which deals with order and order in subsidised employment. Subsidised employment can be good and effective in helping newcomers, the long-term unemployed or disabled people to have a closer connection to the labour market. This is documented in evaluations. However, we have recently seen examples of how rogue employers in certain sectors put in systems to bring in unemployed people from different labour market policy programmes or with subsidised employment rather than employing ordinary workers. When the subsidy period for subsidised employment ends, the employment is terminated and a new person is then employed with a subsidised employment. This is an exploitation that often hits foreign-born people particularly hard. It is clear that there are employers who use subsidised employment as a means of dumping working conditions or to enable lower tenders to be tendered. The problems are particularly evident in sectors such as hotels and restaurants, taxis, cleaning and retailing. This isn't okay. On the Left side, we want a maximum limit to be set for the number or proportion of employees with subsidised pay that a single employer receives. In addition, we want to tighten up the requirements for consulting trade union organisations, which often have much better control than the Employment Service's offices when it comes to different employers and how they act. It is high time that proper action was taken in this area, and so this is something that we in the Left Party have been exercising about. You are welcome to accept the request for exercise, but even if you do not, I wish a Merry Christmas to those who are here.
i-1989b103345f6cba-128	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Alliance's reservation 1 in AU4 report to be approved. The labour market in Sweden is becoming increasingly two-way. A new unemployment is emerging, where many do not manage to establish themselves at all in the labour market. The next year, almost 300 000 people are expected to be in what the Public Employment Service calls a vulnerable position. These are people who are often left out with government policy today. In addition, there are still tens of thousands of people who are not even visible in the statistics. These are people waiting to be granted a residence permit. At the same time, many employers find it difficult to find the right staff. It is clear that not enough is being done to create opportunities and dynamics for Swedish companies to hire more people. Our view in the Liberals, with which we have been clear for a long time, is that the Swedish labour market must be opened up to more people. Otherwise, new generations are at risk of alienation. People with low education and low roots in Swedish society must have realistic chances of getting a job, feel included in society and feel that they have a future here. This is, as the Center Party mentioned in its speech, the most important challenge facing our country now. Of course, those who are new in Sweden need to learn Swedish and get the opportunity for education. But many will not be able to sit on the school bench and catch up on an education they never received as a child. If, even in a boom, we fail to help vulnerable groups enter the labour market, there is an imminent risk of many people becoming trapped in a lifelong dependency on benefits. We know the consequences – social and economic consequences and so on of long-term poverty, vulnerability, stigmatisation, a sense of exclusion and so on. This then continues to feed on in generation after generation and to wear down confidence between residents and authorities in Sweden, between voters and politics, between people from different countries, between people from different countries, between people of different age categories and so on. We will have a more polarised country if we continue to have a large group of people who are far from the labour market and never get into it. Mr President, I would like to Having a job and a livelihood increases people's freedom. Women's independence both from society and from their partner increases with their own salary. Every person has a responsibility to support himself. We refuse to lose faith in the individual's own ability and motivation. We are convinced that every human being wants to contribute according to his own ability and to our common welfare. However, to enable more people to take the first step into the labour market, more reforms are needed. Doors that are now closed must be capable of being unlocked and opened. Foreign born is a group that needs special focus. It takes far too long for newcomers, especially newly arrived women, to enter the labour market. Foreign born people who have stayed in Sweden for over seven years and who have a low level of education now have an average employment rate of less than 50 per cent. We in the Liberals are concerned about this. We are also concerned that the government is not taking action for the necessary reforms – reforms that are needed to enable foreign born people to get into work and get their own livelihood. The Economic Institute, the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF and the Financial Policy Council have all pointed out that the high entry wages in Sweden make integration difficult. It shuts out low-competitive workers. Instead, the government advocates a comprehensive benefit system that makes job opportunities and growth difficult. Mr President, I would like to It must be made easier and cheaper to hire, and more simple jobs and lower thresholds into the labour market are needed. We have a range of proposals for how the labour market can become more dynamic, how incentives for employers to employ can be strengthened and how drivers for job seekers to get jobs can be strengthened. We want to introduce entry jobs – a new form of employment aimed at people who today find it difficult to get their first job. Young people without upper secondary school degrees and new arrivals are groups who find it difficult to stand up in the labour market due to a lack of education, a lack of language skills and so on. The entry jobs, which we in the Liberals have presented together with our alliance friends, make it both cheaper and easier to hire. Mr President, I would like to Employment services are not functioning satisfactorily today. The agency has a notoriously low level of confidence in job seekers, employers and the general public. Surveys from Arbetsförmedlingen show that only 4 per cent of those who have left Arbetsförmedlingen for a non-subsidised employment claim that an employment intermediary has contributed to this process. It is not reasonable to continue to increase funding to an authority whose costs are so high and whose results are so difficult to measure or so lacking. The Liberals believe that the Public Employment Service must be closed down in its current form. The focus of a state labour market operator needs to shift. People who are far from the labour market, such as people with disabilities, young people without upper secondary school grades and new arrivals, must be given priority and receive support to get a foothold in the Swedish labour market. In particular, foreign-born women must be given early support to get into work. A new authority is therefore needed, the aim of which must be to be narrower but much sharper in its support for those who need it most. We also want to develop the RUT reform, which has contributed to the fact that foreign-born women in particular have got a job with their own salary. Together with our alliance friends, we also want to broaden the RUT deduction to more services and triple the ceiling of the RUT deduction. At the same time, we want to review the introduction of a wider home tax credit for people over the age of 70, where more or all simpler services at home are eligible for tax reduction. Mr President, I would like to You can read more about Liberals' proposals in our budget motion; just google on and you will find everything there. It is a long and elaborate budget exercise of several hundred pages. You don't have to read everything if you can't, but you can read what concerns Category 14 – what we are now debating. I would like to refer to our special opinion from the Liberals on case AU2. We are not taking part in the decision in this area because the Parliament has endorsed a different framework in the framework decision for the budget than the framework we have proposed.
i-2HGxdA2LrXbMRqESTbUYSG	Mr President, I would like to I call on the Christian Democrats to agree to reservation 1 and reservation 13 in the AU4 report. In report AU2, I refer to our specific opinion. I intend to deal with both AU2 and AU4 in my speech. Mr President, I would like to In each person there is a need to feel fellowship with others, to take responsibility and to develop as a person. Having a job or other meaningful employment to go to is therefore of paramount importance to each individual. Labour market policy is therefore much more about economic efficiency and public finances. It is about stewardship and ensuring that everyone has a chance to develop their abilities. We Christian Democrats want a society that takes advantage of people's opportunities and innate abilities. Man's value is not in how much he works or in how productive he is, but the importance of labour for the development of the individual is very great. Groups that are having a tough time on the Swedish labour market today are, as many have been on, foreign born, elderly and people with disabilities. These groups make up 78% of the total unemployed. We look with great concern at how the government has made it difficult in various ways for people in these groups to enter and remain in the labour market. Deteriorated RUT deductions, increased payroll tax for the elderly and several other proposals do not improve the situation for these groups, but simply increase the costs of hiring or hiring them. The long-term unemployed are a group with a particularly vulnerable situation, and for this group new efforts are now needed to enable these people to return to the labour market with real jobs. The Christian Democrats want labour market policy to have full employment as the overall objective. Not everyone can work 100 percent of full-time, but everyone should have the opportunity to work 100 percent of their ability. Everything else is a waste of human resources. The consequence of prolonged exclusion is often social problems. The work gives the individual the opportunity to have a better economy and to influence their daily situation. It is therefore important that we break the exclusion. New jobs cannot be commanded by politicians in parliament and government. Jobs are created when individuals find it worthwhile to start or develop a business, to realize an idea or to risk their savings. Four out of five new jobs are created by small businesses. We must not forget that. It is therefore important that initiatives and creativity are encouraged in society, for example through public efforts towards a good education system and a good business environment. Many people with weak links to the labour market are vulnerable as a result of the government's phasing out of the third stage of the Job and Development Guarantee, the employment phase or phase 3 as it is commonly referred to. These people have been given a context through the Job Guarantee. Their ability has come to use, they have got work colleagues and they have been able to get personal development. The media image of the employment phase has seen a lot of the many good measures that actually existed for this group. Isolation was broken for many, and a working community was established. According to Arbetsförmedlingen's measurements, 89 per cent of the participants were satisfied with the effort, and in 2013 it turned out that 63 per cent got a job in some form. On 31 January 2016, the last day a long-term unemployed person could be assigned to the employment phase. It is still not clear what work, what aid or what support the government intends these people to receive. During the election campaign, additional services were highlighted by the government parties. It was said that the extra services would solve the situation for this group. Today, many of them are excluded. They sit at home and have no support. The Government's objective of 20 000 additional posts has not been met either. During July 2017, i.e. three years later, about 4,600 worked in extra services. Where are all the people who used to be in phase 3 going to get help now? How does the Government think it has managed to give people from phase 3 a new job offer? It is about people who have different kinds of obstacles to employment. It can be mental, neuropsychiatric or other physical impairments. It can also be social reasons. You may have a history of drug problems or a long - term illness with you in your luggage. These people do not only need support or income through sickness benefit or unemployment benefit. They need a working community and need to break a negative trend of passivity. Some 76 000 people today have some form of employment with wage support. The Christian Democrats have seen the need to increase the wage subsidy, so that more people dare to hire people with disabilities. And we welcome and welcome the fact that the government has spent more money in this year's budget to increase the wage subsidy. Samhall is a state-owned player who creates meaningful and developing jobs for people with disabilities. It is good to extend Samhall's opportunity to help people. But Samhall also has limits for which you take in. Many say to us politicians that Samhall has too high demands. You do not take in those who have the toughest situation, such as the people who were in phase 3 and whom I mentioned earlier. The Alliance government had a lot of focus on social enterprises. We Christian Democrats are putting a greater emphasis on social enterprises in our budget. In 2007, the Alliance government commissioned four authorities to develop proposals to the government for new approaches to break exclusion through work in social enterprises. This work eventually led to a common definition between the association Skoopi, Tillväxtverket, Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan and Sveriges Kommuner and Landsting. An action plan was also developed. In other words, the concept of an integrated social enterprise refers to enterprises operating an economic activity, with the overall aim of integrating people who have great difficulties in obtaining or maintaining a job, in working life and in society. The current government's focus on labour-integrated social enterprises has mainly been on business development. And that's good. At the same time, however, the costs of the fixed services required for companies to function over time are too high today. Therefore, we want to continue to add funds for operating grants, to supervisors and managers. We want to secure and expand the seats, not least for the 30 000 left without compensation or employment after phase 3. We Christian Democrats set aside SEK 200 million in addition to the government's work on work integration social enterprises until 2020. Mr President, I would like to My focus is on people who are far from the labour market, the unemployed. That's where the focus must be. The groups that are far removed from the labour market are now left entirely without measures. Here the government must make efforts to help them get into work. It would be interesting if the Government could raise questions about how the most vulnerable could be better supported. Mr President, I would like to Moreover, in our budget motion, we have said that we want to phase out Arbetsförmedlingen in its current form. We started talking about it back in 2008. We need to find a completely different way. The employment services still have far too poor results. One needs to break up the large authority, which costs 8 billion a year – I think it is – and instead find other alternative players. For example, temporary work agencies are making an extremely important contribution today. They can help a lot of people. Now they are also saying that they want to invest in people who are far from the labour market. They can and want to do more. I believe that we must try to find new models for the Employment Service, and we have mentioned this in our motion. We also think that more of the labour market policy programmes set up by the government should be phased out. It's better to bet on professional adult. It has produced better results. Nor is it as stigmatising as those parts of traditional labour market training that many employers often view negatively. We also want, as several of my alliance colleagues have said, to develop the RUT deduction. It must certainly be restored to 50 000 in the right to deduct RUT services. The Alliance also has entry jobs. It is important to lower the thresholds for entering the labour market. And we believe that this can help to give those who are far from the labour market an opportunity. There, too, we do not need to have much of a regulatory problem with decisions being made at Arbetsförmedlingen regarding a job. The employer and the employee can decide for themselves within the framework that we set 70 per cent of the current starting salary up to a ceiling of 21 000 for those who do not have a upper secondary school degree. We also want to continue to invest in the elderly in working life. It is a pity that the government has contributed to deterioration through various tax increases and increased regulatory burden on companies in the case of older people. We want to remove the special salary tax for older people introduced by the government, to further promote the retention of older people in the labour market. Furthermore, the Christian Democrats believe that the special tax credit that the elderly have had from their 66th birthday should be changed to apply from 64 years of age. In the area of health and safety at work, we have a proposal on health and safety declarations. Everyone has to make special efforts; prevention at the workplace is to be done. It must be simplified so that it will be possible to do the right thing and to submit some kind of work environment declaration directly to the Swedish Work Environment Agency to declare how to work with work environment management. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say something about unemployment insurance. It is important that both the employer, via the employer's contribution, and the employee are involved in financing unemployment insurance. We want to see more people join the unemployment fund. It's good for the transition for the individual. We have seen that the government and the Left Party now grant a 25% deduction for the union fee. Instead, we Christian Democrats are proposing to grant the right to deduct the a-cassage charge. We find it strange that the government has not proposed this. However, this proposal will be dealt with in the Committee on Taxation. Nevertheless, I would like to mention it, because it is included in a specific opinion.
i-3WeQYDypjg6XJ3iNcQ6w7W	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to be approved in the AU2 report and for the reservation to be rejected. Perhaps you saw the news flash this morning from SVT that we have a very strong job growth. The heading was 100.000 new jobs in 2017 alone. This means that we have a very strong labour market and therefore a strong economy in Sweden. In fact, we can boast the highest employment rate in the EU – and the highest in the country since 1992. As many others have said today, unemployment is falling and jobs are growing. This gives us very good opportunities to continue investing, which gives jobs. We do this in areas such as education, school and the environment. The government is doing this in an excellent way. When Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister and took office in autumn 2014, a budget deficit was turned from minus 60 billion to today's plus 80 billion SEK. Only this is amazing. The surplus is now used so that half goes to invest in what makes Sweden stronger. The other half, EUR 40 billion, is used to amortise public debt in order to ease the burdens that will come in the future. In fact, during this period, 250 000 new jobs have emerged. I am absolutely convinced, Mr President, that all of us sitting in this House are very happy about this. Because that's the way it has to be. That Sweden is growing, unemployment is falling, jobs are growing and we have a better economy together. At the same time, there are major challenges, as the majority here have said. Unemployment remains high, especially among people who have not passed upper secondary school or who were born outside Europe. The composition of the unemployed in that group has changed a lot, as we have heard in the past from the speaker. There is still a fairly high level of inequality in the labour market, and we have matching problems in filling the vacancies. That's it. Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, the government has a focus on becoming the country with the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020. If you have this focus, it means that reforms that reduce gaps and create jobs are the main ones. In this way, trust in the country also increases. Of course, the economy is also strengthening. We always choose large investments before tax cuts. You in the opposition have a different focus. You're all focused on tax cuts. This was also true when the alliance government ruled during its eight years. As Mr Ali said just finely before, the result was not so good, and you are putting forward the same policy now. The gaps increased, welfare became impoverished and unemployment rose, especially among young people. Yet you continue with the same old medicine. We Social Democrats know and are convinced that a more equal and equal society is conducive to economic growth. This is also confirmed by research. When conditions on the labour market become more equal between women and men, we all benefit from that. You know that, too. When unemployment conditions are somewhat so when reasonable, both economically and in order to move forward with skills development and learning, labour market mobility increases. This is good, too. When the parties, employers and trade unions, agree that more are covered by collective agreements, it promotes cohesion and thus also equality between workplaces. It also counteracts unhealthy competition. Here in Sweden we have a rather unique model for the labour market. It is flexible and efficient, and it facilitates conversion and productivity gains. The Swedish model takes responsibility for wage formation. The export industry sets the so-called brand which ensures that we do not weaken our competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries. The model also delivers. It is pinked by many around the world. The basis for the Swedish model of parties and an active state is the collective agreements. My question to you in the opposition is: why can't you too be able to see this and admit that it's actually like this? Some of your party leaders have said that if you win the elections next autumn, you will force legislation here in Parliament that breaks through all collective agreements. You must understand this, because in doing so you are saying that no employer must pay more than 70% of the starting salary, that is, 70% of the lowest salary in the workplace, which is the lowest salary in the contracts. We Social Democrats find this very strange, and it is a bad proposal. In fact, it runs completely counter to the Swedish model, Désirée Pethrus, where the parties take care of the wage formation, not the state. The proposal is quite unique. I would like to say that it is as unique as when you introduced job tax deductions that resulted in Sweden's pensioners being the only pensioners in the world who paid proportionally more in tax than those who work. Now you are saying here that you have a joint proposal that you are going to legislate on and thereby break into all collective agreements. A number of trade unions and employers' associations have recently agreed on a framework agreement aimed precisely at those who fail upper secondary school and to new arrivals to give them a job. This should also be combined with training. This is what I call creative responsibility with the aim of reducing both labour shortages and unemployment. At the same time, low-skilled people can be brought into regular work. Now there will be talks on this framework agreement with the government, and this will lead to a solution with which all three parties are satisfied. This is done according to the Swedish model. But in the opposition you say no to all that in advance. Why are you doing this? Mr President, I would like to The Government's ambition is, of course, to improve the functioning of the labour market. Simplification is being introduced, one of which is to simplify the system of subsidised employment. This has been met with a huge approval from employers. It is becoming more uniform, certainly less bureaucratic and more flexible to use wage support. That the aid is set at SEK 20 000 per month also for the salary allowance is long awaited. I understand Désirée Pethrus who says this is a good thing. We get more resources to Samhall with far more places. What about the extra services, which you criticise but which the municipalities use? They keep growing in numbers. It has a double positive effect. Particular attention can be paid to recruiting more to the specific labour shortages in health care. In this way, labour shortages can be countered and more unemployed people get jobs in an area that we all protect, namely health care. Nowadays it is very common for employers to make demands on driving licences when applying for a job. The government facilitates this by introducing a CSN loan in order for more people to have the opportunity to obtain a driving licence and thus more easily get to work. What you on the bourgeois side are proposing, like the Swedish Democrats, are major cuts in Category 14. You say no to new bets. You are proposing drastic reductions in labour market policy. You want to reduce unemployment benefit. That's what the Moderates call reform. We know that. And so, with your great creativity, you want to close the Employment Service and dismantle labour market policy programmes with additional services and more. At the same time, you are well aware that Arbetsförmedlingen's mission is being thoroughly investigated. But you don't seem to care. You can't wait for the results of this investigation. An investigation into how the agency will change in order to get better, you can't wait in. But probably you just want to privatise and rebuild a large market for private interests that is entirely financed by tax funds. The Swedish Democrats say that it should not go to any rogues. Perhaps the Swedish Democrats are saying that you should not get a profit in this part, because it is tax money that is used – what do I know? We do not forget how the private coaches worked, nor how the start-up pilots failed in their mission but could still make a lot of money out of unemployment. Mr President, I would like to One area was neglected under the alliance government as you shut down and dismantled the Work Life Institute. You destroyed the greatest work environment and life science in the world at the time. It is therefore so welcome that the government is now setting up the new Agency for Safety and Health at Work in Gävle. This means that the government continues its efforts on the working environment and strengthened research. It is also aimed specifically at women-dominated sectors and women's work-related ill-health. But the Moderates and Centers say no to more work environment knowledge. Then you have to ask the question: When we know that ill health is great, why do you say no to more work environment knowledge? We can see that there is no coherent labour market or labour market policy in the opposition. In Category 14 there is no alliance on the bourgeois edge, except perhaps with regard to the unique proposal that the Riksdag should legislate directly into all collective agreements so that those who are the lowest paid will receive only 70% of the low salary. I do not need to comment on the Swedish democrats any more. They always vote for the Moderates' options when their own fall. Mr President, I would like to I would now like to take this opportunity to thank the whole Committee on Employment for its very good cooperation and indeed very nice association. We have tough debates and discussions based on different ideas, but we all share a great commitment to new jobs in a growing economy in a stronger Sweden. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our excellent office in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for its excellent work and always pleasant treatment. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to all of you!
i-1989b103345f6cba-200	Mr President, I would like to There was a lot of bragging in this speech. As I described in my main speech, there is not much justification for such boasting. The fact that new jobs are emerging and that employment is increasing in a very strong boom is perhaps not surprising. This is the case throughout Europe. I noted earlier that it still looks stronger in other countries. I said wrong in my main speech. I said that Sweden had slipped down to 15th place. Fredrik Christensson reminded me that it is actually 16th place. Since I made my main speech, we've gone down another place. I noted earlier that in the last year unemployment has not even decreased by as much as half the population of my small village Ubbhult. It has fallen from 361,000 to 360 000 people. The increase in jobs does not help when the labour force is also increasing very strongly. We have an unemployment rate of 7.4%, according to SCB. Long-term unemployment is increasing and we are slipping down in Europe compared to other countries. There's no reason to brag, Raimo Pärssinen. The next bragging was the reversal of the budget deficit. Yes, figures can be positive or negative in individual years. The interesting thing is to look at the whole for a whole term of office. I note that in spite of a deep global financial crisis, the Alliance reduced its public debt during its time. That is an effective policy. Moreover, the fact that the budget deficit decreased in 2015 was interesting, since it was the Alliance's policy and the Alliance's budget that applied in those years. Then I must remind Raimo Pärssinen that expenditure increases are not investments.
i-1989b103345f6cba-205	Mr President, I would like to It is always interesting to discuss budget deficits with Moderates. You always leave great deficits when you've had government power. It's been like that over the years. And you have always found yourself in the same solution to the problems: major tax cuts. That's the way it is, Jan Ericson. Those are facts. Then you can say that there is nothing to boast about. But if we say this, let us rejoice that we have such strong job growth. I'm sure Jan Ericson will, too. He may not want to do this in this House, because it would sound like he thinks the government is doing a good job. But we have very strong job growth. And, of course, an important part of it is investment, as Jan Ericson of the Moderates calls expenditure. It's investment that brings returns and puts people to work. We invest in housing construction, infrastructure and the entire education system. We invest in people to get better knowledge and to be able to do a better job. We're raising productivity. That's really important. But you in the Moderates only focus on tax cuts. You've tried it, but it didn't go very well. Yet you always believe that it is the only solution – more deductions and greater tax cuts. I would also like to comment on the profile of Liberals. 40% lose on your tax cuts. The 60 percent richest profit from them.
i-1989b103345f6cba-209	Mr President, I would like to I remember, Raimo Pärssinen, all eight years when the Alliance ruled. I remember the financial crisis. Every time we did something, you repeated: Too little and too late! We have to bet more! You wanted to buy Saab. Do you remember that in the Social Democrats? And you have the nerve to complain about us because we had a budget deficit in the deepest financial crisis in modern times. There is a difference between steering in bad times and going shrimp sandwich in boom. I am, of course, pleased that we have strong job growth, but I find it very difficult to see that the government would have affected this at all. There are no government decisions that have created any jobs. Your own expert authorities saw your policy and say that it has had an extremely marginal impact on jobs. That's nothing to brag about. As far as taxes are concerned, I heard Ali Esbati say that many people who work are poor and that the right to deduct trade union contributions is a welcome income boost. But when it comes to reducing the tax burden on ordinary employees, it is suddenly something ugly. Just the same, Raimo is reasoning Pärssinen. The Alliance reduced the tax on ordinary wage earners, which meant that a regular wage earner received more than an additional monthly salary to live on each year. These are effective tax reductions. It favoured consumption and made us resist the financial crisis. That was wise politics. Dipping out grants to the right and left is not investment, Raimo Pärssinen. It's a waste. It is abusing a boom, doing the wrong things and spending the money and making the bed for a crisis when the economic cycle turns downwards.
i-1989b103345f6cba-214	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to a Moderate who says that you spend the money and then it becomes difficult afterwards. I remember a Minister of Finance named Anders Borg. He stood here in this Chamber at the end of 2007 and said: Look what the government's policy has brought about! It was in a boom. When he received criticism for this, he said: We have to wait a few more years. We really see the impact of the government's policy. How'd it go? It didn't go well. There were large deficits, and unemployment increased sharply. In the case of Saab, they wanted help from the government and made use of the funds in Europe. The bourgeois government did nothing. It turned its back on such an important industry. That was the result. You didn't want to help. It was the same with Volvo when the crisis struck. On the other hand, the social partners went in and tried to take responsibility in the matter, but you did not. I will never forget Anders Borg when he said at the beginning of a boom: It is the government's policy that has given the large surpluses. Then the house of cards collapsed. When times were bad, however, the Moderates could not keep their fingers off, but ended with another great tax cut and increased the gap. As I said earlier, Sweden was the only country on earth where pensioners paid more tax proportionally. It was because of Moderate politics. You only have one thing in mind: tax cuts. May the rich make it, but those who are a little worse off will have to make it in a different way.
i-1989b103345f6cba-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Raimo Pärssinen, for apostrophizing me. This means that I have to get up in the debate and say something in my defence and that of my party. I don't know if Raimo Pärssinen remembers what it was like before the Alliance took over. Then we had something called jobless growth. We had growth, but the jobs didn't come. Then we tried a model and said: We lower taxes on jobs. It will pay more to go to work. The result was over 350 000 more in employment despite the fact that during the period of the Alliance we had been through almost a 30th-century crisis. It was a crisis that struck across Europe. But Sweden had a strong and powerful economic counterweight. It was the job tax deduction that became an airbag for the Swedish economy. Everyone had money left in their wallets and could keep up the employment by allowing everyone to continue trading, and no traders might have had to stop for that very reason. As far as the pensioner's tax is concerned, nothing really happened to the taxes of pensioners. Together with the Alliance, the Christian Democrats reduced the pensioner tax five times. It would never have happened without the job tax deduction coming into being. The Social Democrats would never have proposed a tax reduction for pensioners if we had not had the job tax deduction. Pensioners can partly thank the introduction of the job tax credit. It made it a gap, and then they could demand: We also want to have reduced taxes. That's good. Can't you see it that way? Shouldn't we lower taxes and let people keep more in their wallets no matter how much tax revenue increases and no matter how much tax revenue they get, Raimo Pärssinen?
i-1989b103345f6cba-224	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we, too, are lowering taxes. We lower for sole entrepreneurs for the first employee and so on. We also adjust the pensioner's tax. It still sounds a little backwards. Of course, I try most of the time to see it from the point of view of Mrs Pethrus. But it was you who introduced the job tax deduction. And then there were, of course, protests from the pensioner movement. Retirement is deferred pay. You've been working your pension together. Now you want to remove the whole gap between pensioners and employees. One might ask: What would be the reason for doing so now, based on the reasoning of Désirée Pethrus? It was when the big gap was introduced that jobs grew, and now you want to remove that gap completely. Is it also for jobs to grow? That gap was simply unjust and unjust. It was three large pensioner organisations that courted the tax committee when I sat there. They pointed to a major investigation that showed that Sweden was the only country that had such a gap. Of course we're going to lower taxes too, Désirée Pethrus. But we'll be very careful when we do it. It's not supposed to be the profile that the Alliance government has had where it's always the richest tenth that gets most of it. We must ensure that we can have a more equal society and stick together better. I am absolutely convinced that Mrs Pethrus agrees with that. Then we must not target major tax cuts, and above all not unfunded, to people who are already well off in life. Let us agree that we invest in the people who are a little worse off to get them back on their feet, get them into work and make sure they get healthy and so on. Then we can stay together in a better way.
i-1989b103345f6cba-231	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that Raimo Pärssinen can admit that it can sometimes be good to lower the tax. I usually say that the treasure is kind of like the towing position in the car. You have to make sure you have exactly the right level of taxation. Is it the case that tax revenues are increasing dramatically, one must at some point say: we cannot keep recording all these tax increases that are coming, but we must reduce the tax. Let people keep more of their wages. There can never be anything negative. It sounds to Raimo Pärssinen, the Social Democrats and the Left Party that it is a negative thing for people to keep more of their wages. That's what I'm reacting to. As regards the gap for older people, it was never the case that the job tax credit was aimed at increasing the gap with pensioners, but that it would pay more to work. Raising your salary is a good thing. Then we from the Christian Democrats have said that the gap for pensioners should be removed. It would never have happened that they would have had the tax reduction if we had not had the job tax deduction. Rather, we see it as a traction locomotive for the tax on pensioners. In the case of start-up jobs versus entry jobs, as proposed by the Alliance, the employer pays 8 000 SEK for the start-up job. With an entry job of SEK 21,000, the employer must pay SEK 14 700. It'll have more to pay. What's bad about it? You say you might want to pay $7,000 from the state. How many jobs can you afford to finance in order for the start-up jobs to become a reality? We're talking about letting go of the state. Let employers and employees solve it themselves. Set the framework and do not involve the state. Why does the state have to be involved at all and finance the start-up jobs?
i-1989b103345f6cba-236	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that it would never have happened to demand tax reductions for pensioners if the job tax credit had not been introduced. That makes sense. But I don't know if it's a tractor or not. The second is people's livelihood, wages and so on. Collective agreements are important. We're a unique country. We have had real wage increases for 20 years. Not many people can match it. It depends on our Swedish model with negotiations, collective agreements and that agreement has been reached. The parties will handle it. As I said before, they also do it very responsibly and monitor the mark. We should not weaken our competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world. It is strange that you in the opposition are trying to go after labour law and change the balance between the parties. The Moderates want to remove opportunities for sympathy measures, implement a proportionality principle and make changes to the Employment Protection Act. They want to change the balance of power between employers and employees. Then there will also be a shift, and then the Swedish model loses power. The collective agreements are very important. Désirée Pethrus! Don't involve the state! No, don't legislate on wages! Does Désirée Pethrus think that she or the Christian Democrats can do this better than the parties? Let the parties handle the wage formation. Yes! If the parties then find a solution that requires the participation of the state, if employers are also concerned about this, we cannot say no to it until they have started talking to the state, the government, about the solution. Thank you for contributing!
i-1989b103345f6cba-241	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to Raimo Pärssinen in this debate. There are many elements that it would be interesting to discuss or at least highlight. Nevertheless, I would like to take my point of departure in something that was highlighted in the opening statement. The biggest social problem we have in Sweden today is the challenge of giving the people who are currently very far from the labour market a chance to enter. Today, at least three out of four unemployed people are in a vulnerable position. This is a major challenge. At Raimo Pärssinen it sounds like the big gap in Sweden is between those who have a job with a low income and those who have a job with a high income. But the big gap in Sweden today is between those who do not have a job, who have lost faith in the future and hope, and those who have jobs and faith in the future. There is the big challenge in Sweden. There we see that too many are left out. This is what we must press for in order to have a more equal society. It is about standing up for the really weak and those who are most vulnerable. Then reforms are needed. In the 1990s there were a number of structural reforms. During the alliance period, the employment tax credit was implemented. It was a structural reform that helped change the labour market. But under the Social Democratic Government we have not seen any structural reforms, despite the fact that we have the biggest gap between native and foreign born in the Western world and despite the fact that we have the lowest proportion of jobs with low educational requirements in the EU. We share the view that training measures are needed. Those who need education should be given that opportunity. But opportunities also need to be created for new sectors to emerge. We've presented admissions. I would like to ask Raimo Pärssinen why he is so categorically opposed to lower entry wages in order to create better conditions.
i-1989b103345f6cba-246	Mr President, I would like to I said earlier that for 20 years we have had a real wage increase in Sweden. It's pretty unique. This means that we have a labour market, a entrepreneurship and a business sector that is able to bear higher wages. That could be because we have high productivity. There's a connection here. If there are higher demands on a business, one must constantly try to find some smarter solutions and a little more productive solutions to manage it. We have done this in Sweden. Our Swedish model, where trade unions try to raise the lowest wages in collective agreements, puts pressure on companies and business to find better solutions. We've won a lot there. We have had to make better use of new technologies. We are more interested than other countries in new technology, automation and so on. As a result, we can compete with good conditions and produce services and products with high knowledge content. The other way we saw, Fredrik Christensson, when we were in England. On the other road there are self-employed, part-time jobs and so on. Wages were constantly lowered in order to be able to win in competition. This is not the way to do it, because then there will be less knowledge of the goods and services. It's the wrong way. There will be a negative spiral downwards. Would you, Mr. Parliamentary, press the button here and tell us what kind of salary to pay? Collective agreements and entry wages are different. You would then think it a good solution to say that the hotel and restaurant industry or the real estate industry should receive a maximum of 11 000 SEK a month. I say that it is an interference in the parties' free right to negotiate.
i-1989b103345f6cba-250	Mr President, I would like to I think Raimo Pärssinen should read the Alliance's proposal. What we're saying is that it's supposed to be 70% of the starting salary in the industry in question. The parties are still negotiating wages. It's about the opportunity for people to step in. Raimo Pärssinen also pointed out that the parties have increased wages and that trade unions have pushed for higher minimum wages in Sweden. That is one of the problems we are seeing today. The problem is that people don't get a foot in. They never get to try that first job. They never get to test those hours. They do not get the experience and contacts they need in the workplace. That is the challenge. Are we, from the political side, to stand by in this situation, when we see that almost 1 million people are excluded and when three out of four unemployed people are in a particularly vulnerable position? I think it would be nice of the Social Democrats to put forward proposals on how we should actually get these people into work in a better way. We've presented the entry jobs. It's a slightly lower entry salary for a limited period of time. They get a foot in the labour market and get to test to work. I think that's a way forward. Raimo Pärssinen spoke earlier about the financial crisis that we had. He still seems to be sad that the state did not enter state funds into private companies. I can only say one thing: in Trollhättan, unemployment is now lower than it was before the crisis. It's important to take it with you. We must create the right conditions for new jobs to grow and for companies to start. But we must also create opportunities for new industries. Then, among other things, admissions are part of the job. What is now being pointed out in relation to start-ups is that it risks being the same as with other subsidised forms of employment: that it becomes bureaucratic, that nobody will use it and that it will not have the effect that one can expect.
i-1989b103345f6cba-255	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I can see that there was a crisis in Trollhättan when the alliance government ruled. Today, during our reign, jobs are growing. Then it's about the entry jobs. There is a system of minimum wages throughout Europe, in fact. It's a law. Then you say: No one must pay less than this. Fredrik Christensson wants to say: No employer can pay more. You put a roof and go directly into the collective agreement. It legislates for a ceiling in the collective agreement, and it does so in the case of the lowest wages so that they are even lower. Christensson thinks it is a disadvantage that we have relatively high entry wages in Sweden. But then he can choose the system that exists in England. He can choose systems in other countries, where there are no strong social partners and where there are no strong trade unions and organised employers. Then he can tell us which country is better. Is that where there are no collective agreements? Then the question is: Does Fredrik Christensson like collective agreements? Does he like the Swedish model? Why, then, does he want to legislate directly into it? Why, then, does he think that the initial salaries agreed upon are completely insane? And, above all, why is he distrusting employers? I am thinking of the technology employers and the others who have been involved in developing the framework agreement. One might wonder whether they think they have made a bureaucratic agreement or whether they think this: this is actually a good thing. This is what we want. Let's talk to the government! I think that the Center Party should have a discussion with the employers' associations that want this agreement.
i-Cr5nSm5dc2vGbep1RJfmju	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal contained in the AU2 report and of the proposal contained in the AU4 report. We are now debating the reports of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in Category 14. Mr President, I would like to As an environmentalist, I am really proud to be a member of the Red Green Government. It is a government that invests both in education and in a stronger welfare. Investing in education and well-being means that we both secure the skills of the individual and meet the companies' needs for competent staff, both now and in the future. This is also an effective way of promoting economic growth and job creation. Sweden is doing well. There are more people who get jobs, which is of course very gratifying. However, despite the good times, some groups still find it difficult to establish themselves in the labour market. One of the groups that find it particularly difficult to enter the labour market is newly arrived immigrants, especially new arrivals without education or with a very low level of education. Mr President, I would like to I myself remember what it was like when I came to Sweden a long time ago. It was important for me to know what the new society that I had come to expect from me. Having access to the tools that would lead me to my own livelihood was crucial for me, just as it is for many of today's newly arrived immigrants. It should be clear what is expected. It is the duty of society to catch up with newly arrived immigrants right there at the beginning, when you stand stuttering to enter the labour market, support yourself, fulfill your dreams and so on. As of 1 January 2018, the Public Employment Service will re-establish the regulatory framework for the establishment assignment. This means, in practice, that society expects the person who comes to Sweden to have the obligation to take part in the training and jobs offered, in the same way as other job seekers. New arrivals must be entitled to support from Arbetsförmedlingen and also the obligation to participate in relevant actions. The government also introduces education obligations, which means that all newly arrived immigrants who are deemed to be in need of education in order to get a job can be assigned to apply for and take part of education. I think these changes are very important. It is an important signal policy that can have very positive consequences. Having such expectations of new arrivals is a good thing. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight another aspect. When you, as a newcomer, have an honest chance of entering the labour market, you also expect a salary that can be made a living on – a salary that enables you to become independent and creates the conditions for planning your life just as the rest of all individuals in society do. That is why I and the Green Party are very much in favour of the agreement of principle between the social partners on so-called start-up jobs in order to make it easier for new arrivals and the long-term unemployed to enter the labour market. The start-up jobs will run for two years. They shall be full-time and shall lead to permanent employment. These jobs should also include training on paid working hours. Wages shall be in line with the lowest levels of collective agreements. Only companies with collective agreements are to be covered, and even persons with a temporary residence permit can get an establishment job. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned at the outset, there are groups in society who, for various reasons, find it very difficult to enter the labour market, even in good times with low unemployment. The fact that they have been forced to flee here to Sweden can often be a reason, but there are many others. Another large and growing group are the people who are knocked out of work because of mental illness, often stress-related ones. It is often those who burn the strongest and struggle the hardest in their work that one day can no longer get out of bed. Society must offer ways back to routines and work for those who, for various reasons, have reached the bottom and want to lift themselves up again. Some people who worked with me know that I am particularly involved in work integration social enterprises. It depends on all the evidence I've read that shows how amazing the ability of these companies to help people back. An example of this is Andreas in Malmö, who was falling out of the labour market long before he was even 40 years old. Mental ill-health combined with heavy night shifts where he cared for very severely ill people was finally overpowered. After a long period of sick leave, he was able to start training again, in a grocery store. But that door was closed fast. When the salary subsidy from Arbetsförmedlingen ceased, there was no possibility to continue as an employee even in hours. Andreas tells us that this made him go back down. To be thrown out again is devastating for anyone who tries to find a way back to work and routines. The Creativa Community, however, was able to offer him long-term support. Tasks were designed that fit as a glove and gave the opportunity to get back to work capacity at their own pace. Andreas, who also worked extra at a bakery and has a good hand with people, is today responsible for the baking to Creativa Community restaurants, café and catering. He is warmly appreciated by the food guests and supervises new interns himself. Now he wants to go to a lunch restaurant, preschool or similar. He says that's what he wants when he moves on from there and that the idea of practice and employment at the Creativa Community was precisely that he should get so much experience and become so good that he leaves – that's the whole idea. That is precisely the whole idea and the reason why social enterprises are a very important player in labour market policy. Help is given here to return to the labour market, at its own pace, with individualised tasks and with increasing responsibility for operations. It is therefore very gratifying that the Swedish Agency for Growth and Employment in the 2018 budget proposal is given the task of examining the possibility of creating quality assurance systems for the work integration social enterprises. This will make it easier for the Public Employment Service to use the work-inclusive social enterprises for more work within the framework of the labour market policy framework. Mr President, I would like to I would like to end by raising an issue that is more up-to-date than ever – the working environment. The government has made important efforts in recent years and prioritises work environment. That's good. Until a few weeks ago, we thought we had a pretty good track of the problem in working environment areas, but in connection with the metoo movement we have seen that the extent of harassment in working life is hair-traveling. Assault and sexual harassment have surfaced, everywhere. In the industry by industry, women testify to offensive and discriminatory behaviour. Of course, all this has a negative impact on women in working life. That is why it is more important than ever that the government and the parties meet and work hard to tackle this problem. Now is the time to deal seriously with the structures that make men more valued than women.
i-1989b103345f6cba-282	Mr President, I would like to The challenges on the Swedish labour market are greater than we may have ever faced. There are an incredible number of new arrivals who have not previously worked in Sweden. Many are weak in language. Some of them have a weak educational background. O and they are going into the Swedish labour market. I do not think it is possible to overestimate the challenge we face. At the same time, there are also good conditions. There is strong growth. Jobs are growing. Today, the Swedish Public Employment Service's forecast, which shows a surprisingly strong growth of new jobs also came next year, which also rightly points to skills shortages as one of the risks. Madam President, I would like The government has turned politics away from privatisation experiments and tax cuts that did not work and that did not lead to what was promised they would lead to. Instead, it is now investments in welfare and in what builds Sweden strongly that governs politics. This has also resulted in many people getting jobs. Before the government took office, youth unemployment was record high, so high that Sweden received EU support to manage it. An important part of the fact that youth unemployment is halved is of course the strong growth and investment that creates new jobs, but that is also the cooperation we have started together with the Employment Service and the municipalities. NEETs, that is, young people who do not work or study, have fallen clearly to a low level. It is young people who do not get jobs just because jobs exist, but it requires special efforts. Unemployment is also falling among young people with disabilities. It is also groups that unfortunately do not get jobs just because jobs exist, but where special efforts are required. Madam President, I would like There is no time to celebrate that we have achieved great success with youth unemployment because we are in the midst of the next major challenge, namely the new arrivals. In the same way that we have coped with youth unemployment, we shall also meet this challenge. What we are now up to requires structural reforms. We are implementing them, and that is absolutely necessary. Previously, Sweden was unique in that new arrivals were not distributed evenly across the country, but they had to settle a little where it happened, which has proved to fall much more in some districts than in others and more in some municipalities than in others. Now there is a settlement law that distributes all new arrivals so that all municipalities are involved in taking responsibility, and I am pleased with the strong support that exists in this House for that law. It is only the Swedish Democrats who differ and do not think it should be an even reception but that most new arrivals should continue to settle in Vivalla, Bergsjön and Rinkeby. The government is carrying out more structural reforms. We are presenting a major reform of the budget, which is now to be decided, which is about redistributing employment subsidies. They have been far too many and far too complicated. We are simplifying our support. There will be a big difference not least for employers. As Mr Venega mentioned, the government is making major changes in its establishment. It is good that the newcomers have rights, and it is good that it is the focus on jobs. It was introduced by the former government. Now we add obligations for new arrivals so that there is the right balance. It is also an important structural reform that will take effect on 1 January. The government is making a major contribution to education and is carrying out major reforms in education. These include vocational training, new funding opportunities for individuals and training obligations in the start-up assignment. But the government has to do more. We must continue to reform the Public Employment Service, not least cooperation with municipalities and cooperation with employers. I hope that the talks we have started with the parties on establishment will lead to greater structural reform, which is also necessary in the labour market. Madam President, I would like It is quite unique internationally that the parties voluntarily come to the government and say that in this difficult situation they want to help. They want to use the opportunity to ensure the supply of skills. I don't know any other country where they've actually done that. Some of the new arrivals – an unusually large group of new arrivals in relation to the Swedish labour market – do not have the knowledge needed to enter the labour market in Sweden. Preferably it is young people we are talking about, but it is, after all, a major challenge. There are two ways to go. It is quite clear that the situation must be corrected; it will not be solved by itself. The opposition proposes to legislate on the reduction of wages. It also proposes that security for all in the labour market be reduced. It's a trail. Then you choose the track to change the Swedish labour market model in the event of major challenges with many new arrivals. That is what this will lead to. Or you can say that we are facing a challenge with many people who do not have the necessary skills, and then they can be trained so that they fit into the Swedish labour market. The echo reported on such an example this morning. The wood industry in Småland is screaming for people. Together with Arbetsförmedlingen and Tillväxtverket you train new arrivals, who also get a job. That's exactly the way we think you should go. No one has said that it is easy to go that way, but it has the great advantage that it has triple winners. Employers gain by getting the right skills. The individual receives a job with a collective agreement salary. Society receives tax revenue, reduced costs and reduced gaps. Madam President, I would like When faced with such a big challenge, should we choose the way to change the Swedish labour market model with many new arrivals, or should we say that many new arrivals in relation to the Swedish labour market mean that the new arrivals actually have to adapt to the Swedish model and acquire the skills needed to take up work in Sweden? Madam President, I would like When the challenges are great, the state must step forward and take responsibility. When I take note of the budgetary motions, I see that at this point two parties choose to do the opposite, namely the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. They both choose that the state should take a step back and place responsibility on the municipalities. This should be done in a very challenging situation. Jan Ericson said roughly that the figures in the budget deficit could go a little up and down. It may explain why the Moderates have always failed in government finances when they have been in government. The key to meeting the major challenge is to keep the finances in order. Let me say a few words about the Moderates. It's a party that, from being in government for two mandates – which is unique to the Moderates – has ended up in opposition. You have now undergone two change of party leadership, and you have been working on renewing your policy. Moderates in this House have gone around with trouble-wrinkles, constantly thinking about the necessary renewal of the policy in the new situation. Now you arrive at tax cuts, privatisations and the deterioration of labour law. You want to pursue a policy that does not work. You have brought it before, and it is a policy that shows that the old Moderates are back. But you have a new proposal. I'm reading from your budget bill. It is a proposal on job security that I do not understand and would like to have explained to me. Your budget motion shows the following, Jan Ericson: If the parties are unable to reach agreements on simple jobs, a new employment, security employment, which gives the same rights as when you are covered by collective agreements and trade union membership can be created. That would be interesting. This is a new thought. I've never heard this before. Please tell me how it will work! Madam President, I would like The debate here is very much about the challenges we face with regard to all those who are far from the labour market and find it difficult to get jobs, despite the fact that there are many jobs. It's natural and important. But let me conclude by mentioning something about the situation of all those who have jobs, and there are record numbers today. Over 5 million people have a job, and that is, of course, extremely successful and good. Fredrik Christensson spoke earlier about the difference in security for those who have jobs and for those who do not have jobs. That difference is, of course, very great. I would add that, not least this autumn, we have been brought to the attention of the House that the security we have at work in any case for women has significant, not to say the depth of the abyss, shortcomings. This is something that must involve us all and certainly does. There was an up-to-date debate here on Monday on the occasion of #metoo. Of course, I'm meeting the parties. The stories of women who are vulnerable can also be read, and they themselves highlight insecurity and subordination in the workplace as important reasons. They also point to shortcomings in systematic work environment management and the lack of reporting channels to sound the alarm. Clearly, more needs to be done here. The main responsibility lies with managers and employers, who obviously have responsibility for ensuring that there is no sexual harassment or even abuse in their workplaces. But we, too, in this House, have an important responsibility to listen and to be prepared to take action. I shall not go further in this, but I believe that this is a discussion to which we have reason to come back and which involves many people in this House. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I've gone over for a minute. I would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues and counter-debaters for the frivolous and often very fruitful debates in this House. I wish you a Merry Christmas, a Merry Christmas leave and a Happy New Year! .................................................................
i-1989b103345f6cba-312	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Labour! We have seen more of subsidised employment, tax subsidies and tax incentives to get a foothold on the labour market in the past with action after action: entry jobs, the 80% tax subsidy. The result? Yes, 5% move on to regular, unsubsidised work. You can't get that foot into the labour market. Training and skills needed in the labour market must be provided. I think we agree on that. With this kind of action, it's just a round-up. No permanent employment is created. Establishments – it is again a new phenomenon in the Swedish labour market. It is the same thing there, no major difference, subsidised and tax-subsidised. In order to get a little perspective on this, we need to go back to 2015, for the group that will mainly be included in this is the so-called "power rain" of doctors and engineers. According to the Minister for Labour, 37 per cent of those who graduated in autumn 2015 had a university degree. It actually turned out to be 12%. Half had primary school or less. That is why, according to the government, we now need this measure. But there will once again be some equivalent entry-level jobs, i.e. 5% will come into the regular labour market afterwards. It will be a tax-subsidised measure which will not have the desired effect. We've seen it before. It doesn't work that way. The question then is what responsibility the Minister for Labour has for us now being in this situation. It wasn't a secret. SCB had these numbers. In the summer and autumn of 2015, the Finnish Immigration Service had figures on the level of education of those who came. Why haven't you previously addressed these problems? Now you've been waiting two and a half years.
i-1989b103345f6cba-318	Madam President, I would like Maybe we should stick to the correct numbers. Of those who are currently enrolled in the establishment assignment, about one third have a lower level of education than primary education, about one third have between nine and twelve years of education and about one third have a higher post-secondary education. It has varied a little over time when the different groups have come to Sweden, but the overall composition looks like today. I would also like to say that we know quite well from research and experience that subsidised employment should be used in steps. Those who are far from the labour market start with a high subsidy, step down to lower and lower subsidies and move on to unsubsidised work. That is exactly the logic we are being advised on when, for example, the OECD gives advice on how we should shape labour market policies, which I think should be listened to. But, Madam President, the important thing in what Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström says is what he does not say. He says that government efforts should not be given to those who are newly arrived. We should not use the state budget to finance new arrivals coming to work. Who will fund it instead? Yes, the municipalities. New arrivals must instead be registered in the municipality's social services and receive income support. This means for the municipalities that they may have to reduce other important efforts in welfare in order to meet the costs that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström does not want this House to be involved in. I've told you before, when we're in a vulnerable position, the state should step forward, not step back. The others who will bear the cost of Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström's proposal are all people who work, because it should be lower wages. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström is prepared to legislate on lower wages that will affect the Swedish model so that the individual himself can take a higher responsibility. Even those who already exist in Sweden and work run the risk of getting lower wages because Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström does not want the state to take responsibility.
i-1989b103345f6cba-324	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour is out of his league. We want completely different measures. We want to educate those who will remain in Sweden. We are talking about educational reforms and the new form of apprenticeship. We're talking about professional adult and komvux. We are talking about training for the future labour market, not to end up in a circular labour market where you go from one grant job to another without getting the experience you need. It is quite important to go back to this. The Minister for Labour is now talking about post-secondary education. That's not what the Minister for Labour said. She said college and university degrees. It's 12% that has it. I also have three years of post-secondary education, but I don't have a single credits. There are people in the government in the same situation. The Minister for Labour knows very well that this is what it looks like. So it wasn't a skill rain. Consider, for example, doctors. There were 163 000 asylum seekers in 2015, when the medical density in Sweden was a doctor of 278 inhabitants. It took 588 doctors in that group just to meet the needs of that particular group. How does the Minister for Labour view the fact that they are far from meeting their own needs? We have a medical shortage in Sweden that is largely due to the fact that we have had half a million new residents since 2015. We have a situation where about 10% can pass the validation. It's a little over 40 a year. Only from the group that came in 2015 588 doctors were needed. Then we are not talking about family immigration, but only about those seeking asylum. How do we solve that problem? It is important what is said as Minister of Labour. It's important what signals you send out. It can be like Sandviken, where a report was received from PWC and completely ruined the municipality's finances. It's a little bit the same here. What kind of signals do you send out? And how does the Minister for Labour think we should tackle the labour shortage in health care?
i-1989b103345f6cba-330	Madam President, I would like If there are other parties in this House who see tax cuts as the only solution and tax increases as the only evil, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and the Swedish Democrats are newcomers as the cause of all social problems. The lack of a doctor is serious. The resource shortage in health care is serious, so also the lack of trained nurses. To say that this is due to the new arrivals may be considered quite far-fetched. Explanations of how many we train on the various courses, how many AT and ST services the county councils establish, the salary development for nurses and working conditions in Swedish healthcare may have a greater impact on recruitment and the desire to continue working in the profession. At least that's what I think matters more. What should be done to remedy the shortcomings? Just what we are doing right now: we are investing in welfare. That is absolutely necessary. We make record-sized investments in healthcare with new, unearned state grants to county councils and also targeted investments in primary care, the profession and maternity care. We must continue to invest in health care, which will have a great need for resources in the future, and we will do so. We invest in the profession, we invest in training more and we invest in improving the conditions for those who work in health care. This is not an easy issue to resolve, but it will require more. This is also why it is so important to take responsibility for the new arrivals who have come to Sweden coming to work and starting to pay taxes. For we will need that tax revenue; we have great needs in health care in the future. The choice that the state should back down and not take responsibility for helping newcomers enter the labour market will be devastating for the tax revenues we will need in health care.
i-1989b103345f6cba-334	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen to the speech of the Minister for Employment. There were many parts there to consider. I would like to start by saying that I share the view with regard to metoo and that there is much to consider there in the labour market area. There is every reason for us to come back with further discussions in this area. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight education, as did the Minister for Labour. We share the view that training is needed especially for newcomers of younger age who come here and will spend a long time in their professional lives. It is important for them to have access to education and to the labour market. But there are also those who come and are slightly older and may have a shorter working life ahead of them. Then it is important to create new ways into the labour market so that they still have the opportunity to contribute and so that we take advantage of all people's conditions. Therefore, it is important to review how we in Sweden can create better conditions for getting more jobs that do not require so long educational experience, i.e. so-called simple jobs. I think it is a rather bad concept because it is often not at all simple jobs but jobs with low educational requirements. I would like to hear the Minister for Employment comment on what the government is planning to take action to open up that possibility to more people. I also heard the Minister for Employment highlight employment subsidies. I think it is welcome that the government is changing employment subsidies, but to call it structural reform is to be taken on board, I would say. I would like to hear the Minister for Employment's comment on what she considers to be a structural reform. Finally, the Minister for Employment said that we have now managed youth unemployment. We still have 55 000 young people unemployed, and half of them have been unemployed for more than six months. Does the Minister think that it is to cope with youth unemployment?
i-1989b103345f6cba-339	Madam President, I would like These are important questions Fredrik Christensson highlights, and I will try to answer them all. I'll start with youth unemployment. It is clear that there are still young people who need action and who have not entered the labour market in the way we want them to do – absolutely so. However, I would like to say that an important part is that we have a record few young people with a long period of unemployment. In the group that has been enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen for a long time, many are enrolled in the commission, where we have many young people. If the start-up assignment is 24 months, it is of course natural that you are enrolled for 24 months. I do not see that as a failure, but it is reasonable. On the other hand, I would like it to be enough for these 24 months and for young people to come to work. It is therefore important to look at the different parts. Of course, there is more to be done, but we see a significant difference in youth unemployment. When it comes to education, it was interesting to hear Fredrik Christensson. We want to invest heavily in education and I have to say that I am self-critical. Even though we are investing heavily in it, we are not getting enough into education. For example, we see it among new arrivals – 4 per cent of new arrivals under the age of 30 go on to education. After two years in the start-up assignment, only 4% of new arrivals will move on to education. That's not good enough. We have to invest in these people; they are supposed to get an education, because they are needed in the labour market. So it is clear here that we have not done enough or managed to get people in. It certainly has to do with funding, but it also has to do with the provision of training. This is now an important and priority issue for the Employment Service. With regard to the elderly who have a short education, I share the view that it will not be reasonable for everyone to be educated up to the level normally required in the Swedish labour market. It requires other ways, and that is exactly what we are working on now – together with the parties, but also with other incentives for jobs with lower skills requirements.
i-1989b103345f6cba-345	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister for Employment did not have time to answer all my questions, so I ask her to come back to how she defines the concept of structural reform, linked to employment aid. However, I would like to draw attention to the part concerning the start-up jobs, which I also discussed with Raimo Pärssinen earlier. It is good that the parties have in any case accepted that they, together with the government, need to reduce costs. Reducing the cost of hiring is an important step for more people to enter the labour market. Unfortunately, the proposal that has been presented so far and what is to be discussed further sees that not only companies but collective agreements are excluded, but also temporary agencies. Both of these elements are, of course, important today in terms of job creation and the ability of newcomers to enter the labour market, as well as in terms of the possibility for those who are far removed from the labour market to enter it. I would therefore also like to hear there whether this is an issue that Ylva Johansson will take with him in the further talks, that is, opening this up to more people – and also on the basis of lessons learned from various previous forms of employment aid or ways of entering the labour market. In what way will Ylva Johansson try to help lower the thresholds? This also applies to the removal of bureaucracy in such a proposal, if you intend to proceed with it. On behalf of the Alliance, as I have already said earlier today, we want to see entry jobs instead. I think it would be a better way to reach more and enable people to get a first job. Because first and foremost, it is people who are involved. The self-sufficiency you can get with a job is so incredibly important. Having said that, I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Ylva Johansson, the committee and the fantastic committee office a Merry Christmas.
i-1989b103345f6cba-351	Madam President, I would like We are making a major change in the structure of wage subsidies. A major change in the structure may be called structural reform, but okay-- let's not play with words. However, it is a major change we are making. I promised in the election campaign that I would make such a change, and it was much more difficult than I thought. That's why we took a bigger grip than I originally intended. I must say that I am very pleased with what it looks like. We'll see how it works in reality too, but that means that we combine almost all the wage subsidies and do it in a way so that it becomes free how it is to be used. The employer can choose whether it should be with or without training and how much training it should be. The employment rate can be chosen, and it can vary over time without new decisions. This is a unanimous way of thinking about the supervisor's support, and you get the money from paid salary. It is not the case that you have to account in advance or retrospectively day by day exactly what the person did, if it was there or was ill. Instead, it is paid out on the basis of the payroll, as a credit on the tax account. I really believe that this is a really proper and good structural reform, in fact, in terms of the structure of employment aid. Of course, there are even greater structural reforms – for example, the settlement law is perhaps a much greater reform in this way – but I think that matters. With regard to start-up employment, I would first of all like to say that it is quite obvious that reducing wage costs is important. We have been working on this for a very long time, and that is what the employment support is about – reducing wage costs. So it goes without saying that we should do it, of course. I see those parties who have now signed an agreement in principle as courageous parties. They dare to go ahead. If we do this right, I think more will join, because I think it has the potential to be very good. With regard to bureaucracy, I would like to say that this is one of the most important issues, and there is much criticism from the parties there. It is thought that it has been too bureaucratic, and it is one of my important lessons in the cooperation we now have – to try to resolve this issue so that it becomes easier.
i-1989b103345f6cba-356	Madam President, I would like I note that it is a good thing that wage subsidies have been reformed; that is something that we Christian Democrats have been proposing for some time. On the other hand, we believe that more labour market training should be transferred to the adult profession, which we believe is more effective in getting people to work. I have a question I do not really think I received an answer to when the Minister for Employment spoke, and that concerns the people in phase 3. We have previously debated this in an interpellation debate in this House. The idea was that the people who were in phase 3 and would be phased out – and now have been phased out – would go into extra services. The target was 20 000 additional posts. The group in phase 3 was 30,000, I think – at least that's still there. There are now, if I have understood correctly, about 5 000 additional posts. Then there will be a lot of people who are now completely outside. My question to the Minister is therefore how she feels it is possible to get the people from phase 3 into some new type of employment. Many at Försäkringskassan today say that these people are internally placed. That means they sit passively at home. It is extremely destructive for many people. Those who have been able to help are job integration companies. Marco Venega mentioned here earlier in an exemplary way how many people are helped. You have said that it is the Swedish Agency for Growth that will receive resources. However, we believe that there is also a need for mentoring and management support, and we propose SEK 200 million per year for this. How does the Government view it?
i-1989b103345f6cba-362	Madam President, I would like There are about 8 000 additional services today, and they are growing at a very good rate. We need to say thank you to the many municipalities and government agencies that are actually setting up jobs that create completely new opportunities for people who really need them. These jobs need to continue to grow. Désirée Pethrus spoke about people who are internally placed at Försäkringskassan. Maybe she means Arbetsförmedlingen, or did I misunderstand something? We have had a problem with Arbetsförmedlingen, which I also publicly criticised in May, when it was too many long-term unemployed who were left in passivity. This also led to a change in Arbetsförmedlingen's way of working. It is therefore incredibly important that you never leave a single person in passivity, because it is devastating. We'll see what the next report from Arbetsförmedlingen looks like. However, according to the reports I receive from the authority at the moment, major changes are taking place there. I would like to answer the question of social enterprises. I share Mrs Pethrus' great commitment there. The government is investing in the budget, as Mr Venega told us about here, in social enterprises. I am no stranger to the fact that further efforts may be needed, as it is still an under-utilised resource in the Swedish labour market. That is my position on this. I want to ask Désirée Pethrus a question. She says that they want to give up labour market training and invest in vocational adult education. I have some sympathy for this, and the government is also investing heavily in professional adult education. However, if labour market training is to be stopped or severely reduced, you have to answer the question: Who is going to train bus drivers? Who's going to train excavators? How will the wood industry in Småland be able to get well-educated people from Aleppo into work? This type of training does not currently exist in municipal vocational training. Unfortunately, Madam President, there are a great many training courses that could be available in vocational adult education but which are not there, at least not in very many municipalities.
i-1989b103345f6cba-366	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear that the Minister thinks it is good to have work-integrated social enterprises and that you can imagine initiatives there. We look forward to hearing more about that. Then it's a little more fluke when it comes to what's going to happen to those people who come from phase 3 and who now have no kind of placement. I hope that the Minister will deal with it as soon as possible and try to take measures that suit them. I believe that social enterprises that integrate work are part of the solution. Therefore, it is so sad that a huge number of such companies have been shut down after phase 3 was closed down. We find that sad. I hope that the government can now tighten up and try to get them back on track. Another issue I would like to raise is the right to deduct the unemployment benefit. You have tabled a proposal to introduce the right to deduct the trade union tax. Why do you not want a right of deduction for the unemployment fund, as we Christian Democrats are proposing in our budget motion? Then I have a question about health and safety declarations, on which we have tabled a proposal. We believe that employers should be able to make it easier to do the right thing with regard to the systematic work environment that is to be done in the workplace. There are very few checks that can be done by the Swedish Work Environment Authority when they are going around to all employers. That is why I think it would be easier for employers themselves to submit health and safety declarations. Then you can see from them where you need to make some kind of impact. Finally, I'm going to mention the start-up jobs. If I have understood correctly, there is a ceiling of 19 000 kroner. This means that employers will account for 8 000 SEK. In the proposal from the Alliance, employers must account for a maximum of SEK 14 700. This means that employers can make a greater contribution. Why is that bad?
i-1989b103345f6cba-371	Madam President, I would like On the last issue, the problem with the proposals of the Christian Democrats and the other opposition parties is not the level at which the cost to employers comes. The problem is the level of pay for those who have the job, that is to say, the reduction in wages, and the way in which this is done, namely through legislation. We have a long tradition of the parties setting salaries. It is a model that has served Sweden well. Raimo Pärssinen well told here earlier about 20 years of real wage increases. We can also say that it has been 20 years of order in wage formation in the labour market. We have very responsible parties. In both ups and downs, we have been able to maintain a reasonable wage formation. We last saw it this spring when we had a record number of agreements that were open and to be renegotiated. I spoke to the Director-General of the Mediation Institute recently, and it appeared that we did not have, I believe, days lost due to conflict, despite the fact that so many agreements are being renegotiated – and that is being done at a very responsible level. It is a level that is even criticised by many economists for being too low and for not creating enough inflation. In spite of the boom, the parties thus sign very responsible collective agreements. This has enormous value for Sweden. It is clear that if you break this and say that you should go in and legislate, the opposition usually says that you should only legislate on certain jobs and on certain people with certain ethnic backgrounds. But it means breaking a contract that the state goes in and legislates on the maximum levels of wages. It will lead to a reaction. Why, then, should the parties bear the great responsibility that they have so far borne? I think it would be very expensive for Sweden and very expensive for all those people who already have low wages and precarious employment.
i-1989b103345f6cba-375	Madam President, I would like There is a lot to say after the Minister for Employment's speech, but I shall make a few remarks. We are asking for what structural reforms the government has done, and I have a little reaction to the fact that we have two examples. One is to move the new arrivals around to other municipalities, and the other is to review the design of different forms of wage support. I do not hear any mention of any single structural reform aimed at more jobs in the Swedish labour market, and that is what we need. It's great that there'll be more jobs anyway. But obviously it is not enough when we have 360 000 unemployed and when long-term unemployment increases. Then something else is needed. It is also a little strange to boast that youth unemployment is falling. We know that this is a lot about demography. We have young people entering the labour market who are not even half as big as they were in the years when the Alliance ruled. Of course it matters, plus a very strong boom. Nevertheless, we have 10 percent unemployed young people. I would also like to inform the Minister that this government has also received EU support for youth unemployment. By 2015, you received 44 million from the EU to reduce youth unemployment. Then I react very strongly to the glaring about the Alliance and about what we did. We piloted Sweden through the deepest global crisis since the 1930s. In fact, we did so in a way that aroused respect and admiration in the outside world. We managed public finances, we protected welfare and we reduced public debt. Unemployment remained within reasonably manageable levels, well below the EU average. Today's government, on the other hand, enjoys a boom but nevertheless manages worse with jobs than the rest of the world. I don't think that's impressive. How do the Social Democrats intend to manage to get large groups of newcomers and low-skilled people into the labour market in a situation where the economic cycle may be at the same time declining? Do you have a plan for this at all?
i-1989b103345f6cba-382	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson must have listened poorly to my speech. One can probably criticise me for ralliing, but it was probably rather when it comes to Moderates' re-launching and re-thinking in politics, which I actually think deserves a certain amount of resounding, because you have come up with exactly the same policy that you have been pursuing since before. I also find it remarkable that Jan Ericson described a deficit of EUR 60 billion compared with a surplus of EUR 80 billion, i.e. a difference of EUR 140 billion, such as a slight ups and downs in terms of budget deficits. Yeah, maybe that was a big deal too. But, Madam President, the problem in the Swedish labour market right now is not that we are short of jobs; we have plenty of jobs. In particular, the Swedish Public Employment Service's latest report shows that job growth remains good. The problem is that we do not have people with the right skills for the job vacancies. This, in turn, is one of the most serious threats to continued good job growth. That is why this is the most important thing. Then, of course, we have to invest, because we will not have a boom forever. There will be other economic cycles, which is why it is important to invest to pay off on public debt and also make the important investments in welfare, research, education and infrastructure that are necessary to build Sweden strong in the future. I have presented structural reforms, including one that I think is very important: newcomers in all municipalities, especially in those municipalities that have plenty of jobs, which increases the likelihood of getting a job. It's not surprising. Another important structural reform is that we are making demands on new arrivals, which has not been done before. I consider this to be an extremely important step for us to be able to move forward and get more people to work. We are introducing an educational obligation. But, Jan Ericson, you're not answering the question of what security employment is, and I'm genuinely curious. That is the new one I have found in your budget motion.
i-1989b103345f6cba-389	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour reiterates that structural reforms are about different types of measures and making demands on new arrivals. All this is great. We have no other opinion, but also on the moderate side think it is valuable. But you still don't have any reforms conducive to the emergence of new real jobs. Instead, you are doing exactly the opposite: you are raising taxes for companies and for people who work. This does not cause any new jobs to emerge in Sweden, but it is just about you trying to create employment with artificial measures. We can't live on that in the long run. Not all people can work in subsidised employment; it does not work. When the Minister for Labour comes back to this with surpluses and deficits, we will have to take a small lesson in fiscal policy. It shouldn't really be necessary, I think. But it is actually the case that individual year's budget results are one thing; the overall result over the eight years of the Alliance is a completely different matter. In addition, there is some difference in directing a country during the deepest global financial crisis in perhaps 100 years and steering in a very strong boom. There is no comparison at all. I come back to what our party leader usually talks about: an adult conversation in politics. We cannot compare these two things. There are two completely different conditions for controlling, and Ylva Johansson knows that. I do not think that this discussion is really serious. There is talk of us training all the people for the jobs that exist. In fact, we know that not all newcomers who have arrived in Sweden can be trained as highly qualified jobs. There's just no time. They're too old and they don't have time to complete their education. We must therefore also have access to simpler jobs for these people. That's a huge question we have to deal with.
i-1989b103345f6cba-394	Madam President, I would like Is it not an adult conversation to be able to talk about having a budget deficit of EUR 60 billion or a surplus of EUR 80 billion? There is a difference between night and day when it comes to how to handle important challenges for Sweden. It is very worrying when you think it is not a serious debate. Everyone who depends on a strong society and a strong Sweden and on investment and growth depends on us having strong public finances. You will always have that if you have a Social Democratic Minister of Finance. Of course, not everyone can train for highly qualified jobs. But I just reported that it is 4% of newcomers under the age of 30 who lack primary school competence who go on to education. In fact, we cannot say that we have done enough on the educational side. It is quite clear that we need to do a lot more. And as I said earlier in the line shift with Fredrik Christensson : This is also a reason to be self-critical. We have not got enough in education; that is a very important issue. In conclusion, Madam President, we must nevertheless call on Jan Ericson to look around Sweden. He says it doesn't grow into jobs. In fact, we have a situation with a uniquely strong growth of new jobs in Sweden. It won't last forever. I know that. That is why it is important to make investments, and investments cost money. That's why you need strong finances so you can make them. When I look around in Sweden it is also in this situation very rarely I am met with the popular cry for new, large-scale privatisation experiments. Rather, it feels that there are quite well-known requests: education, vocational training, easier cooperation with the Public Employment Service, easier employment and the use of various employment subsidies. I believe, Madam President, although I did not get an answer to what security employment is, that it is a very ill-considered proposal.
i-1989b103345f6cba-398	Madam President, I would like Patrik Björck – a happy Social Democrat! It can be nice as a contrast after we have heard a gloomy moderate. One can, Madam President, reflect a little on why the Moderates are so gloomy. True, there are a number of reasons of a more internal nature, with the disintegration of the party. I wasn't going to discuss them here and now-- that's not really part of today's debate. But what makes me a reasonably happy Social Democrat? It is, for example, to look at SVT's news, where it is noted that employment is growing strongly this year; over one hundred thousand new jobs have emerged during the year. It makes me happy, and it makes the Moderates gloomy. Another thing that can make me happy, Madam President, is that the Socialistly led government has fixed the moderate labour market policy objective. In just under three years, what the Moderates had as their goal to achieve by 2020, i.e. to have more than 5 million people in work, was fixed. The fact that the Social Democratic-led government with its left hand fixes what the Alliance and the Moderates have set as a labour market policy goal makes me happy, but it apparently makes the Moderates gloomy. If you are going to have this debate and get something out of it, it is important to see and understand the difference in how we conduct politics. This is a debate on two reports, Madam President, and in report No 4 of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on p. 10, there is an introductory sentence on the main differences between the government and the bourgeois parties. Somewhere I think that there is reason to start to get a background to why bourgeois, moderate governments always lead to higher unemployment and ruined state finances. It is not only this time that this policy has led straight into the ditch. This has happened every time we have had bourgeois-led governments in this country since the introduction of democracy. Each time, this policy has produced the same result. If this is to be understood in detail, work and the impact of labour market policies on our ability to manage public finances will have to be taken into account. These questions are interrelated. In 2006, when it was promised to the electorate that it would be better at fixing the labour market than the previous Social Democratic-led governments had been, the proposals that were put to the market and that were supported by voters to implement, tax policy and changes in unemployment insurance. It is, as Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson points out, the same proposal that is being put forward now that we are going to elections in 2018. The idea is that it will be profitable to work. It's hard to have any other point of view – it's good if it pays to work. The only question is how to do it. The job tax credit is then used, and it is important because in the past, Madam President, it was a somewhat confused discussion about what a job tax credit is. In order to understand the importance of the job tax credit in the moderate labour market policy, we need to know that the job tax credit is not about the level of tax collection but about a distinction between tax collection between different groups. You should discriminate against pensioners, Désirée Pethrus. That is the idea of bourgeois politics and nothing else. The idea of the job tax deduction is that the person who does not work should choose to work. This is the same idea as when you reduce unemployment insurance: an unemployed person should choose to work instead of being unemployed. One must clearly understand the purpose of moderate policy in order to understand eventually why it always lands in the same result. It is not the case that unemployment is created by people choosing not to work. Had that been the main reason for unemployment, moderate policies could have worked. But because the reason for unemployment is not that people choose not to work, that policy will never ever work. Madam President, I would like If the voters, Gud forbid, allow this policy to re-emerge, for the fourth time it will produce exactly the same result. I have told you this before in this pulpit, and I think it deserves to be told again: the reason why I, as a social democrat, am so convinced that this policy does not work is not just the fact that it has failed three times. True, that should be arguments enough to convince most people. But I also have a background as a trade union representative. I have, on several occasions in my long trade union experience, experienced cyclical redundancies, where the company has given notice of staff because there has not been sufficient sales of products. When, after these weeks of negotiations, you come out and you meet your co-workers and they are told that they belong to those who are laid off, then I can guarantee you that it was nothing they chose. It was something they suffered. So, through my experience of the labour market, I have that insight and knowledge, and if you do not have it, you can actually look at the result of where that policy leads. I think it's extremely important. The Social Democratic analysis of unemployment is different. And since we have a different analysis of how unemployment occurs, we also have quite different tools for dealing with it. It is clear from previous speeches by Raimo Pärssinen and Minister for Employment Ylva Johansson on the AU4 report. Our analysis of unemployment is that it is created simply by the demand for less labour. Then we must have a policy of investment and investment that will create a greater demand for labour. So does the Social Democratic-led government and has always done so. That policy has worked and will continue to work. There's nothing strange about that. The second reason for unemployment has also been addressed here today and is that the unemployed do not have the qualifications or experience needed to get a job in the labour market. That, of course, is what needs to be corrected. This cannot be achieved by tampering with the tax system, by reducing unemployment benefits or by making it difficult for people affected by unemployment. It's never gonna work. When they tried to sell this to the voters, the pensioners, as Raimo Pärssinen said, were naturally upset and said: How is it that you promise tax cuts to certain groups, while you discriminate against us pensioners? The answer to that question is that pensioners can be calm. Our policy will bring down unemployment and, as our pension systems are designed, your pensions will increase and you will be compensated. We all know what happened. As labour market policies did not work, unemployment did not fall, but increased. What happened at the time was that pensioners received reduced pensions. So the Alliance double-crossed pensioners. A so-called double blow was what the Swedish pensioners suffered. Now that a completely different policy has been implemented in the Socialist-led government, we have been able to create scope to actually ensure that pensioners are allowed to take part in the tax cuts and receive increased pensions. The pensioners are again compensated twice by the Social Democratic-led policy. It is extremely important to remember this. Among other things, Mrs Pethrus tried to get rid of the debate by not knowing what is the very purpose of the tax policy that she stands for, that is to increase the differences between those who work and those who do not work with regard to the levying of taxes. That's just what it's all about. If that difference did not exist, their policies would not even work at a theoretical level. Now we know it doesn't work in real life. However, as Mrs Pethrus explains, it would not even work theoretically, and it is also interesting and important for voters to take part in. So we have an opposition in the Swedish Parliament that puts forward a policy that obviously does not work in practice and that one does not even understand the theory behind it. It is clear that it is not a good advice to voters to let such parties govern this country. I think that is a very important experience of this debate anyway. Tax revenues are, of course, reduced when more people become unemployed. If you are to understand how this huge difference of 140 billion can arise depending on the policy being pursued, it is also about how to manage our common resources. If we pursue a policy such as the Alliance where labour market policy is not working and we also spend over 100 billion on a labour market reform that does not work, which was what happened with the reduction in employers' contributions for young people, then it will be very easy to understand how the deficit in the state finances arises. It is absolutely not complicated, and I absolutely do not need to get a lesson in economics from Jan Ericson in order to understand that connection. That connection, Madam President, is so clear that it cannot be misunderstood. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we now help to deliver this message to the electorate so that we do not have to make the same mistakes again. Three times with bourgeois-led governments is three times too much. This is not something that Sweden and the Swedish people deserve. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the AU4.
i-1989b103345f6cba-426	Madam President, I would like I had to ask for a line on this, because we're going to have a new lesson in plus and minus. When Patrik Björck talks about that, there is a problem with this, and that is that the Alliance left a sovereign debt that was lower when we resigned in 2014 than it was when we took office in 2006. How can this be a waste of public finances? Patrik Björck must explain that. Patrik Björck points out that we Moderates are putting forward proposals that are very much in line with what we went to elections in 2006. Yes, of course we do. We know it works. We know that the policy we put forward, our working line, works. Then there was a recession and a financial crisis in the midst of this, but without our policy unemployment would have increased much more. The interesting thing is how to deal with a crisis. Thanks to the job tax deduction, it becomes more profitable to work. More people got into work, we got increased tax revenues and we were able to give more money to welfare even during the crisis years so that the municipalities would not have to cut too much. We have received a lot of recognition for this, even from your Minister of Finance, so Patrik Björck cannot talk it off. If a newly arrived family's income can decrease when someone starts working, we have a serious system failure. It is actually the case, Patrik Björck, that you can refrain from looking for a job if you lose from it financially. Patrik Björck boasts of his long trade union experience. I counter that I too, as Patrik Björck v et, have worked unionally for 20 years. I have been involved in negotiating collective agreements and dealing with mass redundancies in the banking sector. In fact, I know how important it is with conversion agreements, training and unemployment funds. But this is not about this issue, because in it we do not really have a great difference of opinion, I think.
i-1989b103345f6cba-432	Madam President, I would like Let me be very clear on one point: I am not bragging about my trade union experience. I'm just telling you that I learned something from it, unlike Jan Ericson. As far as public finances are concerned, one can say this: If I became unemployed and suffered from reduced income, I could of course adjust my finances by selling the house and thereby lowering my loans. It might be a wise measure, but if I had no income, I would slowly but surely become poorer and poorer. If, as the moderate-led government did, government assets are sold to lower public debt and, at the same time, finances are mismanaged so that income is lower than expenditure, the country will slowly become poorer and poorer. This is what it is all about. Now we have a policy that makes income exceed expenditure, and then, at the same time as Sweden is getting stronger, we can also pay off public debt properly. That is the difference between our two different policy models. One can always consider whether it is by far the most economically appropriate thing to do is to sell off assets and reduce debts. Maybe it can be sometimes, I'm afraid to answer that. But what strengthens a country's economy in the long term is that income exceeds expenditure, and that is what you will never succeed in doing. Jan Ericson says he knows that his labour market policy works. I and my comrades in the Social Democracy and the Labour Movement have a great responsibility to ensure that there is no one but Jan Ericson who believes it when election day comes.
i-1989b103345f6cba-438	Madam President, I would like This will be next n a little fun. Nor had today's government managed to have surpluses in public finances during the financial crisis. Patrik Björck knows that. It's actually going to be a little silly discussion. Nor could any government fail to have a surplus in the strong world economy currently in existence. That's what it looks like, and we know it. Let me remind Patrik Björck that even today's government sells companies. The last day, Mikael Damberg announced that they are selling off a pharmacy company and using that money to reduce public debt. So does this government; there is nothing strange about it. Let me say something about pensioners. No pensioner group in Sweden received a reduction in purchasing power during the alliance years, despite the financial crisis. I agree with Mr RUT, who has done a thorough analysis of this. All pensioner groups regardless of income gained stronger purchasing power during the financial crisis, and the greatest improvement was made to guarantee pensioners. This was not the case in the rest of Europe. There, many pensioners suffered major deteriorations in their purchasing power. But it did not get pensioners in Sweden because we reduced their tax. This shows how important tax cuts are. It's going to be a little dishonest discussion. If we had not implemented the job tax deductions, we would have had even higher unemployment during the financial crisis, and then it would have hit pensions even harder. Patrik Björck also knows that the list of pensions is lagging behind a few years. The lists that have taken place in recent years are based on the economic development of the last years that the Alliance ruled. In addition, it was our budget that was in force in 2015. Because it lags behind, you can't just compare individual years in the way Patrik Björck does. In fact, there is a dishonest discussion.
i-1989b103345f6cba-443	Madam President, I would like I thought I made it clear that I did not condemn the sale of companies. I just said that maybe it wasn't the most important thing that separated our policy. The most important thing that separates our policies is that we get higher income than expenditure and that in the long term we strengthen the Swedish economy. You always get lower income than expenditure, and therefore you always ruin the economy. That's the important difference. The fact that I know your labour market policy is not working has nothing to do with the financial crisis. I can tell Jan Ericson that the financial crisis had hit any government that would have been in place. But if you have a labour market policy based on the analysis that unemployment arises because people choose to be unemployed and you introduce measures to make people choose to work instead, you will always fail, Jan Ericson. It will always suffer from a deterioration in revenue and the destruction of public finances. It is because the policy itself is wrong. The reason why our policies always work and that we always have order not only in the labour market but also in public finances is because we have an analysis that is much closer to reality. I am convinced that we can find things that we can improve in our future labour market policy, but the difference, Jan Ericson, is that we have a policy based on a correct perception of how unemployment occurs. This means fighting unemployment, increasing tax revenues, expanding welfare, investing and creating surpluses with which we can deal with future recessions – unlike right-wing policies, which always fail.
i-1989b103345f6cba-448	Madam President, I would like It is a good and clarifying debate that we have here today. I will start with a little about the important efforts that the government is making in the field of labour market. Very positive things are happening. For example, five different forms of subsidised employment are made one: introductory work. It simplifies a lot. There is also a gradual increase in wage subsidies. In many ways they actively invest in strengthening and improving the Swedish model and the Swedish labour market. Unlike previous governments, this is now being built out piece by piece. Madam President, I would like The Government also allocates SEK 500 million to the municipalities and county councils to create more extra services and get more long-term unemployed into work. It is a good way to get into the labour market and get a collective wage. During the term of office we have invested a lot of money in a more secure a ‐ cashier. In the budget we are going to vote on, we are also raising the compensation to Samhall. We also arrange for it to be possible to take out loans for driving licence training. This is an important reform which means that many who have not been able to afford to take a driving licence in the past can take a driving licence. It will make a big difference for many people in our country. We also invest a lot of money in working life, and we have done this throughout the term of office – over 100 million for the Swedish Work Environment Authority and a lot of money for research, not least research on women's work environment. We also invest in trying to counteract mental illness, which has increased for quite a long time. We also invest money in starting a new Agency for Safety and Health at Work. What was mentioned in the debate, ALI – Arbetslivinstitutet, which existed earlier and was a world leader, has been lacking in Sweden and in the world. Now a similar authority is created in Gävle, and the idea is that it will work with similar things. It will not be exactly the same, but it is a work environment authority that will work with work environment knowledge. Many important efforts are being made. One of the more important, Madam President, is to ensure that there is justice when it comes to the right to deduct trade union fees. There is a right of deduction in terms of the possibility of participating in business organisations today. There should also be a right of deduction for workers, not just employers. It is a question of justice and an important issue in order to strengthen the Swedish model itself. So it is an important effort that is being made. In many ways, I am proud of the budget that is in place and the policies that are being run that make Sweden build in the right direction. We strengthen the Swedish model that exists. After all, it is lucia today, and we should not forget that we are approaching Christmas. We'll have a little fun and a good atmosphere and feel that it's Christmas soon. I thought we should go into labour market policy a little wider. I have brought with me two packages which say a little more about labour market policy. I was going to open them up, and then we are going to go into politics and get deeper into that debate. The first package is a little red with a bow on the front. There is an advent calendar on labour market policy throughout history, and not just any labour market policy without the labour market policy of the Swedish Democrats. Anyone who has been present before and perhaps listened to the debate about a year ago sees that this is remarriage, that is, a gift that has already been given. It may be a bad way to give the same thing again, but if something is needed and useful, I think it can be done. I thought we'd try to get some clarity. One of the major challenges in labour market policy right now is where the government's opponents are and what proposals they have to destroy the Swedish model and the current labour market model. I would say that the Swedish Democrats are the biggest enemy of the Swedish model that exists today. The advent calendar that I hold describes this and shows SD's labour market policy throughout history. I'm gonna go over it a little bit quickly. I don't have to go that far now because I did it last year. It describes what they thought about labour market policy in 1988. The Swedish Democrats then write that Sweden has a long tradition of trade unions and that trade unions play a very important role in society. It's very union friendly, and it's probably the Swedish model you're referring to and that's good. When we arrive at 1994 it is written that Sweden has a long tradition of trade union activities. Those are still good words. Then they suddenly leave the Swedish model in 1999. It changes a lot. It is then written that instead of the social partners having to settle their pay and contracts, a new national mediating authority should be established with the task of assessing the annual pay gap. Things happen here: You break with the Swedish model. We move on to 2007 and are approaching the present. Then the Swedish Democrats want to abolish MBL, have more exceptions in LAS and ban trade union action. You get very anti-union and you almost want to abolish the union. It is even written that the union has too much power in society and that it should be reduced. So in 20 years it becomes very different. 2010 is a little uncertain. It is said that the important thing is to defend the collective interests of the nation and that the lack of ideological ties and the protection of special interests in this area means that the political orientation of the party may change. This can do quite a lot depending on the underlying conditions, political changes and the economic situation. You can think anything about the labour market. I find it interesting to see this historic exposé and what is happening in the Swedish Democrats. In 2015, they write about the white-job model and requirements for collective agreements in procurement. Then it feels like you are in favour of the Swedish model again. But about a year ago, when we had a debate on this, this House voted against the 2016 proposal on procurement. I am thinking a little about what the Swedish democrats think about labour market policy. That's pretty important to know when we're approaching an election year-- it's not even a year left for the election. The year I now show in the advent calendar is 2017, i.e. now. What do you think? This is what we concluded with last time. We also wondered about this in 2018, where we also had a question mark. I spent yesterday trying to find out what the Swedish Democrats want in labour market policy. Now I may have ruined the surprise, but that's what's in Christmas present number 2. We'll focus on that. This is an important debate to have. It is important for Sweden's citizens to know what the Swedish Democrats are going to elections on. Labour market policy determines the future of our country, and that is, after all, what we are debating today. What I am now holding is called SD's Christmas Calendar 2017– So we like the labour market, this year anyway. Let's see. There are three parts that I find interesting. I looked at SD's website sd.se yesterday. I sat for quite a few hours. I advise you who are listening to this debate to at the same time check out what is standing there right now, live. The SD's principle programme, which is on the website, says:.The Swedish Democrats defend the basics of the Swedish model, in which the social partners negotiate on wage levels and other key conditions. One really is in favour of the Swedish model in the principle program that is on the website. Then perhaps a social democrat or someone from the labour movement will be a little safe. There is obviously another job here in some way. In the labour market policy programme that is next to the principle programme on the website – you have to scroll down a bit – it says: The so-called Saltsjöbadsandan has enabled a common understanding of the labour market and to a large extent prevented serious conflicts. So you are very positive. It is also written that the Swedish Democrats want to restore security in the labour market, that people should be able to feel safe and that it should be ensured that all citizens can find their place. It sounds in many ways in the labour market policy programme and in principle the programme as being in favour of the Swedish model. But then the main points of the programmes are addressed. A little further down in the labour market policy programme, it says that security may not have been so important after all. We want to make exceptions to the rules of rotation, i.e. the Employment Protection Act, which is one of the most important elements in order to be able to feel secure today in the labour market. On the website you write that you want to reform it, but in fact you want to worsen it, make it hollow and destroy it. They write that they want to strengthen unemployment benefit, but in fact they write later in their proposal that they want to steal unemployment benefit from the trade unions, which once started unemployment benefit funds and which have it to build stable support for the unemployed in the country. They want to move it from the trade unions to the state. It also wants to introduce a type of apprenticeship. In the budget exercise, which is also on the Swedish Democrats' website, you write about apprenticeships. It is perhaps one of the hardest attacks on the Swedish model that is being written about here. This form of employment means that the employer is completely exempt from paying employers' contributions and that the apprenticeship is treated as a probationary position, i.e. that the employer will not be drawn to the Labour Court in the event of disputes. A minimum wage per month is laid down. These are serious violations of what is the Swedish model at all. You make the workers who are supposed to have the type of apprenticeship that you want to introduce an unlawful. It gets very strange when one second you say that you are in favour of the Swedish model while the other second you make clear proposals that undermine this model completely from scratch. You pull the carpet under the whole model and it disappears. I wonder what Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström thinks about these issues. I see he's requested a line, which I'm glad to hear. Otherwise I would ask that it be Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström's Christmas present for me, that at least this year we could have a change of line. In previous years, the Swedish Democrats have not wanted to debate these things. I think it is important for Sweden's citizens to know about them. My question to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström is: How do you really get this together yourself? What is on the website on labour market policy is very contradictory. Which of the positions in the various programmes on the SD website is the correct position on labour market policy? This is my question to Sven-Olof Sällström.
i-1989b103345f6cba-481	Madam President, and Magnus Manhammar. I say as Magnus and Brasse: wrong, wrong, wrong! Let's start there. Of course, I cannot take responsibility for everything that happened before my time in the party. I do not doubt your description, although a little bit because your description of the present situation does not correspond with reality either. I have been a spokesperson for the Swedish Democrats since 2010, and we have always stood up for the Swedish model. Your description of the procurement debacle from the Social Democratic Government 2016 is also incorrect. You made a poor legislative proposal and got back to Parliament, and then you got it through. That's how you're supposed to describe reality, isn't it? That's what it looked like. Yes, that's right: we want five exceptions instead of two. That's the only point I can really get you right. As far as the unemployment benefit is concerned, it is quite incomprehensible to me how you, as a workers' party, can consider that not everyone should be covered by the unemployment benefit. Today, the unemployment fund is more than 90% tax-financed, i.e. not financed through the levy. If you have not joined the unemployment fund and paid your own small contribution yourself, you are not entitled to unemployment insurance even if you have fulfilled the conditions for it, which for me is absolutely incredible. Of course, the unemployment fund should be general, apply to everyone and be part of the social security system. I do not understand how you Social Democrats might think it is wrong. I'm getting upset! It must be self-evident for the Social Democrats to want everyone to be covered by the unemployment fund. Wrong, wrong, wrong! As far as apprenticeships are concerned, this is an educational effort. Instead of studying five days a week in a school, perhaps having a CSN loan or going to a secondary school, you can get an apprenticeship. You still get CSN loans or support if you have it, or you are supported by your parents, but you get a little credit for being at a workplace and doing a job for the employer. Would that be wrong?
i-1989b103345f6cba-486	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Sven-Olof-Olof. It's great that you explain this, because it's interesting to hear your views on it. When it comes to unemployment benefit, I hoped that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström would have some kind of knowledge of what it looks like when it does not belong to the trade unions in different ways. If you look in the rest of Europe, where the unemployment fund in many countries has been taken away from the trade unions, you can see that the degree of union membership decreases to 20-30%. If it is such a low degree of union membership, you cannot have a collective agreement, and then the Swedish model is actually over. That is the real consequence of moving to the state unemployment fund. I can understand that it is perhaps the goal of the Swedish Democrats, but then I think you should be honest with it and say that you are looking to break the Swedish model. In the new election film presented by the Swedish Democrats just over two weeks ago, LO is identified as one of the main opponents. They show a picture of LO's central office here in Stockholm and say that the conflicts in society are between you and us – and then they show a picture of Jimmie Åkesson. It is LO that somehow seems to be a main opponent of the Swedish Democrats. I wonder why this is really the case. Is it because it was LO who brought democracy into this country? Is it because LO stands for workers' rights? Is there another reason why LO stands for equality? Or what is the reason why the Swedish Democrats are against LO? You can think about it quite a few times. You can also read other motions from the Swedish Democrats here in Parliament where you talk about being against sympathy measures, for example. For example, one of your party partners, Markus Wiechel, has spoken negatively about this. Your group leader Mattias Karlsson, who previously substituteed as party leader for Jimmie Åkesson, has written a motion to abolish May 1st because he believes that May 1st has a divisive impact on the population. So, according to Mattias Karlsson, caring for workers' rights is to divide the community. I feel that the Swedish Democrats have an ill will towards LO and that it is Sweden's most anti-labour party.
i-1989b103345f6cba-491	Madam President, I would like No, we have no ill will towards LO and its members, but vice versa. I have encouraged the local trade unions and safety representatives in all the workplaces that I have worked at, been in charge of, or owned. I think that's good. I think it is good that there are trade unions, and I think it is good that the social partners are steering the regulatory framework in the Swedish labour market. It is not the members of LO that I object to, but it is the leadership of LO. It is on the same side as Magnus Manhammar politically – the side that portrays the Swedish Democrats as the great enemy. That is where the conflict lies, and it does not target LO members. On the contrary, a majority of the male LO members today are Swedish democrats and not Social Democrats. That's something to think about. I would like to go back to your first speech. Sometimes politics changes. As I said, I cannot take responsibility for politics before my time. I was not even in the party for much of the time of this list. However, I cannot help but recall a former party leader of the Social Democrats who talked about social tourism, given that new countries entered the European Union. He then saw not only posting and labour moving across borders, but also social tourism, which he mentioned in a speech. It was a slightly thorny statement. Then there was the talk of social tourism, begging and all its consequences brown and fascism. Now we're back there again, or am I wrong? Now the Social Democrats are once again talking about the need to counteract the effects of free movement, including when it comes to people from former Eastern states who come to Sweden. Then it is suddenly not brown and fascism anymore, or have I misunderstood something? Sometimes it's very fast and very much in politics, isn't it, Magnus Manhammar? As far as our programmes are concerned, we have just had country days. We have annulled many of our programmes. Some are removed and some will be removed, and we will add the new writings. So right now and a few more weeks after our country days, as we had three weeks ago, there may be some controversy in them.
i-1989b103345f6cba-496	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström! I think it might be appropriate to describe what kind of movement the Social Democracy is and what kind of movement we belong to. We belong to an internationalist movement. So we care about people regardless of which country and where in the world they live. We are not a nationalist movement. That is why we are happy to call for better agreements for all people who work in Europe and in the world. That's really what we're doing, and nothing else. We want everyone to have the same rights and the same opportunities for the same salary – nothing else. Everyone should have an equally good working environment, and no one should have a greater risk of dying because, for example, they were born in another country. That is what we are pushing, and that is our basic view: Everyone in the world has the right to a good life. This also applies to labour market policy. I still think it feels good that it is admitted here that there are some contradictory things in the various programmes that can be seen at the moment on the Swedish Democrats.se if you go in there. What is most contradictory to me is the policy pursued by the Swedish Democrats. You write in principle the programme, which is nevertheless the most important opinion, that you are in favour of the Swedish model. You even write to defend it. But then you are putting forward proposals that will knock it away, for example by stealing unemployment funds from the trade unions, by making more exceptions in LAS and by the new form of employment, which would mean three years of probationary employment without any real rights. I think it is rather contradictory. I understand if the voters find it easy to become unsure of the rather sprawling positions of the Swedish democrats in labour market policy. But there is something that is certain, at least for me, and that is that the labour market policy that the Swedish democrats are running is not really good for the Swedish model. It would not improve the Swedish model, but would destroy it. This policy is not a Swedish model either; it is a Swedish democratic model. It leads to the destruction of the Swedish model.
i-1989b103345f6cba-501	Madam President, I would like I have the honour to open the debate on Category 25 General grants to municipalities. This is the central government's largest expenditure area, with 11 per cent of the closure, which represents just over SEK 111 billion out of a total of around SEK 1 000 billion. Regrettably for Sweden, it was not the Moderates' budgetary framework that was decided by the Riksdag. Our budget has a stronger focus on jobs and the work line than the government budget has. Since we are facing an election year, it is particularly important to highlight the differences between the government's budget and ours, perhaps especially in the case of municipalities and county councils. It is the municipalities and county councils that ensure that children have a good school, that there is a dignified care for the elderly and that health care is available to those who are ill. These are important activities close to the inhabitants that municipalities and county councils are responsible for. At the same time, their main source of income is income tax. The rest are contributions from the state and fees. As our tax system now stands, municipal income tax finances about two thirds of the activities in municipalities and county councils. Thus, welfare depends on the number of hours worked, which the work line promotes. The government paints with its budget a picture of a Sweden that is doing well. We agree with that. Thanks to economic boom, the Alliance's previous reforms and low interest rates, Sweden is currently as a train. But the picture of this area of expenditure, i.e. municipalities and county councils, is more worrying. It is true that the sector as a whole currently has a plus, but on the one hand it looks very different in the country and, on the other hand, it is largely due to extra state subsidies and sales of real estate. As far as county councils are concerned, they already have problems, partly due to the change in the discount rate which leads to a higher pension liability. In addition, expenditure in municipalities and county councils is increasing faster than is matched by demographic change. The municipalities also invest a lot in new schools and retirement homes, while all the baths and facilities built in the 60s and 70s need to be renovated. To a large extent, these investments are financed by loans. This means higher debts that burden future municipal budgets and thus future generations. The picture for the years to come is therefore not nearly as bright. How, then, does the government respond to these identified challenges, which go beyond other challenges we see in society, such as shortcomings in the police and justice system, in the housing market and in school and lack of integration? That's a good question. One way seems to be to simply stick your head in the sand and start from a more positive picture of growth in the coming years than the Economic Institute, the European Commission and Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, SKL, for example, have. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that, contrary to previous budgets, the Government no longer reports how much expenditure needs to increase in order to meet the demographic need for welfare services. Furthermore, the government is increasing its targeted state subsidies considerably. In contrast to general government contributions, targeted state grants involve increased government-specific governance. This is something that both the government itself and the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils point out makes it difficult for the municipalities themselves to fix the problems they have locally. The government also notes that citizens have growing claims for freedom of choice. What political proposals does the government make? There are no reforms which address the challenges mentioned or which, for that matter, increase the number of hours worked. S-MP-V places an expansionary budget, according to the Konjunkturinstitutet heavily underfunded, in a boom and violates the surplus target with low savings. So it is not possible to save for worse times. The government is not taking the opportunity to carry out the necessary reforms that solve the problems we face. Furthermore, the government raises taxes, primarily aimed at jobs, growth and savings. And they threaten to impose a profit cap on welfare. Throughout, you say you want to do one thing but you do another. We Moderates are not content with simply stating in our budget that municipalities and county councils are facing major challenges in the future. We also present concrete and powerful reforms that address the societal problems we see that Sweden has right now. What concerns this area of expenditure is, above all, the integration of new arrivals and the dual labour market. If we are to manage the financing of welfare in the longer term, it is absolutely crucial that we solve these challenges, so that everyone who can contribute, and do not impose additional burdens on municipalities and county councils. Population trends show that more and more people are getting older. That is, of course, welcome. We have a large litter of 40s approaching an age when more and more people need more support from society. At the same time, the next large litter with 60-talists will start retiring, and the great 90-talented litter will have children. Children are of course very welcome, but from a societal perspective the challenge is that relatively fewer people are of working age and provide support. A larger proportion of those of working age are also born abroad. It is a category that has historically had a significantly lower employment rate than domestic ones. It is therefore crucial to address the division of labour markets. We Moderates are therefore making concrete proposals for that very thing. In this field of expenditure, it is important to add just under SEK 6 billion more than the government. We want to introduce a job incentive into the support, short activity support and have a free preschool for long-term dependency in order to increase incentives to work. But we also want to increase the level of ambition in school with more teaching time in primary and math, and to have holiday school and compulsory homework help to equip the future workforce. We say no to parts of the government's budget that we do not believe in. The Alliance's proposal on entry jobs lowers the thresholds for those who are far removed from the labour market. And the job tax deduction, together with our benefit reforms and the rise in cut-off point, leads to increased employment and makes it worthwhile to work more. In contrast to the government, we also report the employment impact of our proposals. With the Moderates' budget more than 70 000 more people are employed. We Moderates do not duck for the real challenges but face them with reforms. With our budget, as opposed to the government, we have a clear focus on the work line and aim to increase the long-term tax revenue of municipalities and county councils. Growth and increased employment are more important for local government finances than state subsidies. But we also strengthen welfare funding with state aid, with both general and targeted state subsidies. It is to take responsibility for Sweden and the financing of welfare, both in the short and long term.
i-1989b103345f6cba-515	Madam President, I would like I and the Center Party propose that the grant 1:1 Municipal economic equalization be increased by SEK 7.510 billion in 2018, beyond what the government proposes. For the next three years, we propose that municipalities receive 24 billion more in general state grants than the government has proposed in its budget. I am the former chairman of a rural municipality, and I and the Center Party know that the municipal and local level have more knowledge of the shortcomings of their own municipality than the Government Office or Parliament has. The local government sector must be given good and long-term opportunities to finance its activities and adapt them to changing local needs. Me and Niklas Karlsson, who will come up in the speaker's chair a little later, are in the municipal inquiry. We will, a little simplistically, review how the municipalities will manage their mission in the future, in the second most sparsely populated country in the EU. In order for the whole of Sweden to live, we must be able to take the whole country into use. Large parts of the country cannot be reduced to recreational areas that urban people should visit during weekends when they want to be able to walk in species and biotop protected forests. Structural reforms are needed to create jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country. That is lacking in the government budget. To believe that the municipalities around Sweden will be able to cope with the welfare mission by scattering contributions over them is short-term and is increasing the major problems and challenges that we all see coming in the future. I'll get back to it. Madam President, I would like Since, on 22 November 2017, Parliament gave budgetary policy a completely different direction in the first stage of the budget process than the Center Party, I naturally wish to refrain from taking part in the decision and from presenting any formal counter-proposals regarding the distribution of appropriations in Category 25. The Center Party's budgetary options should be seen as a coherent package, where no parts can be broken out and treated in isolation. Madam President, I would like The responsibility for a large part of the political issues lies with municipalities and county councils. It is about school, health care, care and public transport. If Sweden is to function, municipalities and county councils must be given long-term conditions to function. However, we politicians at national level are inclined to regulate local politics in detail, which often results in proposals for targeted state subsidies that tie the local level behind. The Center Party is therefore working on the principle that targeted state grants should be converted as much as possible into general state grants. It also creates opportunities for efficiency improvements in municipalities. In our budget motion, we report a rescheduling of labour market policy. Extra services, which have been a failed government policy, are replaced by matching positions, for people to get to work. We would also like to see an extra hour of mathematics introduced at secondary school, a forward-looking and mandatory social orientation, and an increase in job incentives in support. The Government's proposal concerning, among other things, financial reporting at school level is rejected. The school's already stuck in red tape that goes out on the kids. Instead, let us cut red tape so that teachers can spend more time with children. Madam President, I would like I would like to come back to the future of the municipal sector. If you, like me, were born in 1961, you can rejoice to be 87 years old. Just plan your future! In 1960, life expectancy was 15 years over 65. Today it is 20 years over 65. Looking forward to the year 2035, we may end up in 23 years, and extending the line all the way to 2100, the average life expectancy is 27 years over 65. This means that we have a life expectancy of 92 years. And it's a good thing we're getting old, right? However, if you are a municipal politician, you also know that if the population grows older, it brings some other things. Let us look at the number of thousands of inhabitants over 85 years of age between 1980 and 2035. By 1980 we had about 100,000 over 85 years of age. Today we have about 250 000, and within 15 years we have 450 000 people over 85 years of age. Those of you who know municipal finances know that if you are around 85 years old you cost about 250 000 in municipal expenditure. If you approach the oldest, those up to 100 years old, the cost is about 500 000. We politicians have a responsibility for people today, but also for future generations. We're getting older. Is it only demography that drives the development of costs? Are there other parts? Let's go back to 1980 and say that the index was 100. During the years up to 2017, we have increased by 20 per cent. Has the cost of the municipal sector also increased by 20 per cent, along with demography? No, it's not like that. Costs in the municipal sector have increased by 70 per cent, not by 20. Why is this happening? Has the curve been continuous from 1980 to today? No, there was a weak moment between 1992 and 1997 when the costs in the municipal sector flattened out and went down a little bit. Thus, during the 1990s we had reduced costs in the municipal sector. I want you to remember this with reduced costs in the 1990s. Why is this happening? Why do costs increase much more than the population increases? That's because we have high expectations. There is a law that says that the better we get it, the more we demand. I'm not the one who made this up, but this is called Wagner's Law. Wagner died in 1917, so he could already in the 19th century see that it will be like this. High expectations from the population are driving. We have higher levels of ambition because we can do more. In addition, the Government and the Riksdag impose more and more commitments on municipalities and county councils. We add things that often also mean improvements – so-called gold plating – but we never remove anything. This, of course, increases the costs in the municipal sector. Let me return to the curve of municipal investments in health care, school and care between 1980 and today's society. I said there was a folding curve in the '90s. Perhaps someone is wondering if there was not a declining curve in 2008-2009 during the worst financial crisis that has ever existed since the depression. And the answer is no, it didn't. The curve doesn't fold at all. That's because the government went in and took full responsibility. In the municipal sector, no cuts were made. If you turn to the Swedish people and ask: Which of the following years do you think that Swedish municipalities and county councils invested the most resources in some of their operations? Alternatives are being offered from 1960 to today. When does the population think it was the most bet? Well, in the '90s, when we pulled down. During the period when the municipal sector closed down, the Swedish population believes that it was at its best. I may think that the comparison in perspective when it was good and when it was bad becomes a problem for us politicians. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party want to increase the public contribution to municipalities by EUR 24 billion over the next three years, because we know that at local level we know better what is needed than we do in this House. We also want to implement the necessary structural reforms to meet the challenges of the future, some of which are what I have just described. I said in a debate in this House on Monday that it is probably time to stop saying that the whole country should live. Perhaps we should say, instead, that we use the whole country.
i-1989b103345f6cba-537	Madam President, I would like I want to talk about that welfare that exists on the day when you need it most and best, which is when you leave the children in preschool, which is when you come home to your old mother at home and see how she is and which is the day when you get sick. It exists to ensure that society's weakest, those who need society most, will be helped by welfare when they really need it. The core of well-being, care, school, police and elderly care, is something that characterizes the Swedish welfare society. But that is also something that we are currently seeing crackling in some places. We see that it does not work as intended. We see a shortage of teachers, doctors, nurses and police. We also see people's confidence in welfare being eroded. We see how people have to wait for their place in the care queue. We see that people expect the school to deliver high results, which it does not always do. We see people living in places where the police do not show up in time or where the feeling of anxiety and insecurity spreads. Madam President, I would like A major problem in the Swedish welfare sector is that we do not trust our employees and that we do not let the professionals be professionals. Within Swedish administration – nationally, locally and regionally – we build up administration and bureaucrats that allow the teacher not to be a teacher and that the doctor does not meet patients but spends far too much of his time staring into a computer and filling in various kinds of follow-up systems. If the professionals were left to be professionals, we as citizens would have greater confidence and confidence in our common welfare. But perhaps most important of all: Those who work at the core of welfare would feel a greater pride and greater job satisfaction when they go to work. When people who work in the core of welfare feel the joy of working and feel that they can develop at work, they will also make sure that the school gets better, the health care system gets better and the police work better. We must therefore leave the professionals to be pros. The over-bureaucratization that is now growing strong around Sweden must be broken here and now. Madam President, I would like The school is one of Sweden's most important areas. Nothing is more important than that a child should know what it wants to be and be able to realize his dreams. Nothing is more important than school for this to happen. We are now seeing how the school results in Sweden turn around. The results that have been falling for a long time and which have meant that far too many children leave school without full grades are reversed. However, they do not turn around for everyone. We are also currently seeing an increase in the percentage leaving school without full grades. Sweden has a red-green government that does little to change this development. Rather, it says that we should not make any more reforms at school and have this as a political slogan. This is Gustav Fridolin's starting point in the work, as is evident in the total lack of proposals in the debate. Madam President, I would like Liberals are not satisfied with this. We mean that the school needs more. We need to do more to develop the Swedish school so that all children have the opportunity to realize their dreams. It's about more hours of teaching. It's about learning more math in school. It is about children to start school earlier and that they will go ten years in primary school, unlike nine today, to earlier and clearer focus on knowledge and for all children to learn to count, write and read on time. It is not least about us making sure that the newly arrived young people, often boys, who come to Sweden in the ages of 12 to 13 to 14 have actually learned something when they leave school. We propose, on the Liberal side, that the compulsory schooling for new arrivals be extended, so that we do not get a group of young boys, often from Afghanistan, who leave school without knowing the Swedish language. It would be devastating for our society to have that effect. These are three examples of how we in the Liberals in our budget clearly prioritise municipalities' ability to ensure that schools improve, that the results are higher and that all children can make their dreams a reality. Madam President, I would like In this House we often talk about how the common cake should be distributed. But how big is the cake? The truth is that it is entrepreneurs and people who work who make sure to build that cake. The basis for our common welfare is that people are working. Nothing is more important for our common welfare society than high employment and full employment. That's why I get worried when I look out over Sweden and see how the division into the labour market is becoming clearer and deeper. We see the emergence of a new subclass, where dependency on benefits is inherited from generation to generation. Children grow up in families where there is no connection between the fact that there is food at night and that Mom and Dad have gone to work during the day. Children grow up in environments, neighbourhoods or localities where there is a standard that means that unemployment is okay and where the culture is that you live on benefits and do not work. It is devastating to our welfare society. It is also devastating to trust in our society, for it is based on the fact that everyone is involved and contributes and that people do not live on subsidies. Madam President, I would like Then tax systems and benefit systems must be designed in such a way that people move from contributions to work and that it is always worthwhile to do so. That is not the case today. The benefit systems need to be reviewed and tightened. Above all, the tax system needs to be changed so that it always pays to move from subsidies to work. Even if a family has four children and two parents, none of whom work, it must pay for the parents to start working instead of being idle and living on benefits. That is why we propose in our budget that the tax system should be changed so that it is more clearly encouraged to move from subsidies to work. Madam President, I would like The Liberals' budget is a budget for strengthening welfare. We focus on the jobs, because the jobs are what makes the common cake as big as possible. We make sure that the school is expanded, and we put the school first by investing in the school with a focus on knowledge, with a focus on starting school earlier and with a special focus on newly arrived young people who come to Sweden in their teens. We also say very clearly that welfare should be developed and modernised. I'm gonna let the pros be pros. If we are to have confidence in society, people must have confidence that the welfare is there the day they need it. Then it is not good enough as it is today, but changes are needed.
i-1989b103345f6cba-555	Madam President, I would like On 22 November, at the first stage of the budgetary process, the Parliament's budgetary policy incomprehensiblely gave a completely different direction from that desired by the Christian Democrats. However, we do not have a reservation, but instead have a specific opinion explaining our position. This is an incredibly important area. The economy and development of municipalities are very much concerned with welfare. In the municipalities, we build Sweden, said Christian Democrats' former party leader Birger Ekstedt once upon a time, and that really still applies. In the Christian Democrats' budget, we spend 27 billion more on healthcare and care than the government does. If we take into account the government's general government contribution increases, we add it to 14 billion more to health care and care than to government policy. This would play a major role in meeting the very great needs that we see in healthcare and care in particular. Queues are growing, and more and more elderly people are not accommodated in retirement homes, which means loneliness and isolation. That is why the Christian Democratic budget would be far better than the government's welfare. However, it is not enough simply to add money. Structural reforms are also needed to ensure that municipalities and county councils do the right things. The embodiment was an excellent example of this. The Landstingen got a reward after performance. You got the payment when you had shown that you managed to shorten the queues. It has now been abolished, and we see that the queues are growing as the parliamentary term progresses. This is something that needs to be changed. We think that we should do this in a similar way when it comes to overcrowding. The county councils that manage to have 90 per cent of the population all months of the year will receive a substantial supplement in order to be able to cope with this. One can imagine a parking garage where it is constantly full. There are significant problems. It is difficult to make inflows and outflows work. It leads to some parking damage and other things when cars are to be penetrated on that surface. It is the same in health care with the situation we have with the lack of available care places. This is something we need to deal with. We want to stimulate innovative ways of working by rewarding those who are able to maintain a readiness in the systems to reduce the unnecessary health damage that we see. There are two structural reforms that we believe should be carried out in the area of health care in order to improve the performance of secondary municipalities. Then what does the government do? The answer to that question must be: not very much. It is true that there are some general contributions that the municipalities may very well need. However, some other priorities are also being set, which we feel are more questionable. It's about the so-called free bets. It should be free for 85-year-olds and older people to go to health care. It should be free medicines for children – both children of directors and members of parliament as well as children of financially vulnerable people. These are bad priorities. One might say that it has become free for older people to sit in longer and longer care queues. It will be longer in the emergency room and longer in anticipation of a first visit or surgery, but it has become free. Unfortunately, I think that sums up the government's policy in this area so far. These free reforms do not lead to improved welfare. We should be able to use the money better and take structurally more correct measures. I also think that we need to look at how municipal taxes are developing in Sweden. I believe that what has not least been pointed out by LO is very important to take on board, namely that municipal taxes hit people with low incomes very hard. They strike directly at people who live with small margins. They can provide municipalities with a much-needed contribution to the municipal treasury, but the consequences in terms of increased unemployment are shared. For my part, I have come to the conclusion that it is time to consider introducing a municipal tax brake. The person who did it last time was Göran Persson. This is the only time that we in Sweden have managed to stop the development with ever-increasing municipal taxes. Such a brake could work in such a way that a municipality that raises taxes gets a small deduction on its state subsidies, so that it does not have the full effect of its municipal tax increase. It would give the nagging in Sweden a little more rye in the back. I am deeply impressed by the municipal politicians who are trying to gnet, save, streamline and find smart ways to make municipal operations better. By such a brake, the gnashing would be relatively more worthwhile. I think this would be worth trying, and it is something that our party will be working on to push forward that we do not constantly raise our municipal taxes; it affects them with the very lowest incomes the hardest. We also need to open the State Service Centre for municipalities. For me, it is incomprehensible that it has not already been done so that municipalities can also benefit from services and be able to use the State Service Centre for Municipal Financial Management. That would be very beneficial. The ESV could play a greater role in helping municipalities to increase their efficiency. What determines in the long term how things go in the municipal sector has Magdalena Andersson very wisely stated in Agenda a couple of years ago. She was asked: Will there be any further increases in state subsidies? She replied: What must be remembered is that it is how hours worked develop that determines the finances of municipalities in the long term. It's what happens to jobs that decide what we can do for welfare. It is therefore no wonder that, with the policy of the Alliance, when we were in government, we invested more than before in every student, every inpatient and every care-needed. It shows that it is possible to pursue a smart, good and wise job policy that also means reducing taxes on labour while doing more for welfare. However, this requires prioritising, having strong and clear job reforms and also the courage to tackle the structural problems that exist in health and long-term care. Unfortunately, I do not think that the government's draft budget meets those requirements. Madam President, I would like We need to do more in this area. We need to ensure that we manage well-being and that we make the necessary priorities to ensure that older people in need of retirement homes can have a chance to get in. We need a retirement home guarantee that ensures that we increase the empowerment of our elderly to be able to decide more for themselves over their lives. This is a crucial issue for the future. We cannot remain silent when we have a development where more and more people are in ever longer queues for this and at the same time we are investing in municipal hotels, adventure pools and large sports arenas that will hardly carry themselves in the future.
i-1989b103345f6cba-567	Madam President, I would like More jobs, equal school, a stronger welfare, reduced gaps and a safer Sweden that stays together, so our joint project looks like. The conditions for investing in this social project are good. Sweden's growth is higher than in most countries in Europe, and higher than expected in Finland, Denmark and Norway. Both in 2015 and 2016 Sweden was in top five in the EU in terms of growth. Unemployment has fallen clearly since the government took office. Since then, over 200 000 more people have a job to go to, of which 100 000 in the public sector. Youth unemployment has fallen sharply, and in 2017 it is at its lowest level in 14 years. Long-term unemployment is the third lowest in the EU. The number of job vacancies is over 100,000, and employment plans in the business sector continue to increase. The government has had two years of surplus in central government finances of two possible ones, and the forecast for both this year and next year points to surplus. The government has also turned a budget deficit of SEK 60 billion into a surplus of SEK 80 billion. It now allows for investments in social protection before tax cuts. In addition, we can now pay off another SEK 40 billion on our national debt next year. This means that we will have the lowest public debt since 1977. But there are still challenges. We cannot ignore the needs that exist. These are parents who feel that their children are not learning enough in school, the great concern about climate change and the melting of polarises, and future parents who are worried about their future births. Inequality is still widespread. Many people feel insecure about meeting tomorrow, and a horrifying proportion of people have been deprived of the opportunity to provide for themselves. These are challenges that cannot wait. Urbanisation and demographic development in the future are driving and creating major challenges for municipalities and county councils as well as growing claims for equal service of good quality throughout the country. It is therefore important that the common construction of society continues and that the general well-being is strengthened. Municipalities and county councils that are responsible for a large part of the tax-funded welfare services in health care, education and long-term care are an important part of the Swedish economy. In order for the local government sector to be able to cope with its welfare tasks with high efficiency and high quality, it is essential that the sector is given good and equal conditions. Municipal self-government should go hand in hand with national equivalence. The government's draft budget makes it clear what we want to do.
i-1989b103345f6cba-577	中 Child benefit is increased by SEK 200 per month and study allowance for upper secondary school pupils as well.
i-1989b103345f6cba-579	It will be an improved public service through ten new service offices in socially vulnerable areas and rural regions. One consequence of the job tax deductions introduced by the previous government is that pensions are taxed more heavily than wages. That injustice works the government to remove.
i-1989b103345f6cba-582	Against the reform budget and policy there is a split bourgeoisie. Here it becomes clear where the dividing line goes in Swedish politics. Despite a very high tone, the bourgeois parties do not differ significantly from the government when it comes to the assessment of the reform space. On the other hand, it is clear that we have completely different views on how to use surpluses. Against the government's reforms of SEK 40 billion are five parties that want to make major tax cuts and major cuts. Madam President, I would like To be honest, during this debate we have heard the bourgeois representatives present excellent proposals in their eyes. Of course, there are individual ideas that are sympathetic. It is the idea that state subsidies should be as general as possible. It is primarily represented by the Center Party and to some extent by the Moderates. This involves increased teaching time in mathematics, extended schooling and swimming at sports hours. Madam President, I would like As the old saying goes: On the street of the blind, the one - eyed man is called a guide light. It does not help to try to focus on individual proposals in order to turn the light away from the wholes and thus put forward their political proposals in a better light. In total, the Moderates want to reduce SEK 3 billion, the Swedish Democrats SEK 13 billion and the Center Party SEK 12 billion in municipalities and county councils 2018. As usual, it is the party that is not represented in the debate here today, the Swedish Democrats, who are the worst in the class. Nearly SEK 50 billion on expenditure, they want to cut, among other things, by huge reductions in integration expenditure. Here the Swedish Democrats renounce all responsibility for the people who are establishing themselves in Swedish society. The direct consequence of this irresponsibility is, of course, that it will be the municipalities that will have to take the bill in the form of more support and other measures. All opposition parties therefore agree on violent cuts in welfare, all in good faith to finance huge tax cuts instead of investing in welfare. This is exactly how Swedish policy divides: reforms against tax cuts. For me as a social democrat, it is about creating good conditions for municipalities and county councils to be able to provide important welfare services such as healthcare, care for the elderly and school – with high quality and high accessibility. That is why, Madam President, I am pleased to support the committee's proposal in the FiU3 report.
i-1989b103345f6cba-588	Madam President, I would like Niklas Karlsson is here alone to defend the government's budget because his cooperation party is not represented in the debate on the state's largest spending area. It's quite remarkable. Area of expenditure 25 General contributions to municipalities correspond to the entire defence, the whole judiciary and the public debt interest – I say this in order for us to get a sense of the size of this expenditure area. So it's very important. I know that Niklas Karlsson is very committed to these issues. But it must be tough to defend this budget. Today's Helsingborg's Dagblad says that Social Democratic politicians use S-marked yardsticks that give a distorted picture of reality. A little bit of that feeling you get here too. It is not a job-promoting or growth-promoting budget that is presented. There is a lot of focus on grants and not so much focus on exactly how the jobs and the number of hours worked will increase, so that municipalities' own tax revenues can contribute to the financing of municipalities' activities. Besides, I was a little confused. Niklas Karlsson says that 2018 will increase the money for welfare. This is partly the case, but of the 5.9 billion, 4.9 are compensations for different decisions taken. Thus, the increase does not even correspond to the erosion of state subsidies that municipalities and county councils are going through. It is about compensation for price and wage increases that you need. So you need about 2 - 3 billion. How does Niklas Karlsson imagine that the number of jobs and hours worked will increase in the future?
i-1989b103345f6cba-593	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that I am involved in the local government sector. I have, like Anette Åkesson, a background as Municipal Commissioner. I don't know this in detail, but I know it pretty well. I'm still engaged at home. I believe that in the work that Anette Åkesson and I do together in the Municipal Investigation we have good opportunities to talk about the long-term conditions for the local government sector to get better. I believe, as has already been said in the debate, that one important factor for this to succeed is the increase in the number of hours worked. Then we must ensure that those people who today do not have the ability or are excluded from the labour market can get into it. Today, we know that we have a business that is in need of labour. There are also a lot of unemployed people. Then one can of course apply the principle used by the bourgeois government between 2006 and 2014. It was simply said: If the unemployed do not take the jobs that do not exist, it is their own fault. It was an individual question. It was a moral question. It's your duty to support yourself. That's where we're in complete agreement. But then the social contract must also work. This means that those people who today cannot support themselves should be at the disposal of the labour market. They're gonna get the jobs that grow up. But when they cannot because they do not have the right skills or education, the social contract is based on us as politicians ensuring that we give them that opportunity. We Social Democrats do this through active labour market policies. We invest considerably more in strengthening people in the labour market than all bourgeois parties do. The Moderates want to cut by SEK 8 1⁄2 billion for next year in order to strengthen people in the labour market and give them the conditions for self-sufficiency. How can we in this way, Anette Åkesson, increase the number of hours worked?
i-1989b103345f6cba-597	Madam President, I would like You're supposed to help those who need help and support. There is total political agreement there. There is no party that does not want to help them. The security systems shall operate in this way. The problem will be that growth will not increase with this budget. This budget does not increase the number of jobs and the number of hours worked. However, more and more money is being spent on those who may be able to work. They shouldn't have to work. We think that is wrong. Another issue that I was going to raise is something that surprised me in the budget. It states that it is clear that we need to meet citizens' growing claims for freedom of choice. That is precisely the sentence that I supported, because I know that a proposal based on the Reepalus investigation has been announced. The government announces that it wants to introduce a profit cap into welfare. How does it go with being aware that citizens like to choose for themselves and that they have growing claims to choose? How does it go with making proposals for a profit cap in welfare?
i-1989b103345f6cba-599	Madam President, I would like Let me just briefly mention something about profits in welfare! This is an issue that will come back in the spring. The government's making a bill. There will be plenty of room to account for the consequences of this. Anyone who has read Ilmar Reepalus's investigation can conclude that one of the reasons for introducing a stop to the hunting of profits is to guarantee diversity. What happens in what has now become school markets and health and care markets is that large dragons subdue smaller schools, smaller health centres and smaller retirement homes. This actually means that citizens' freedom of choice is reduced when it comes, for example, to choosing which school to attend. We can come back to that question. But I understand, Madam President, that the Moderates and Anette Åkesson all of a sudden want to change their focus. For there was never an answer to the question. Instead, Anette says a little sweepingly: Yes, but there is total political agreement that we should help those who are far from the labour market. You say that, but the policy you deliver does not respond to what you say in the Parliament's pulpit. You turn on those who are farthest from the labour market. You are removing all the resources that are available to enable them to strengthen their own livelihoods. There is no total political consensus, Anette Åkesson, no matter how many times you say it. The classic social contract that we have built up on the political side means that it is people's duty to support themselves and that there should be a policy that ensures that people can take the jobs that are emerging. This you have demolished. That's what you tore up when you ruled the country in the last period. You still haven't restored it. If you want to do that, it is up to evidence when you present the next budget.
i-1989b103345f6cba-603	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Karlsson, for your speech. I have a few questions and perhaps also some statements. Sweden is doing well in an international boom. I can agree with that. I don't think anyone's questioning that. Niklas Karlsson mentioned the low unemployment rate among young people. That's it. The unemployment rate among us who are born in Sweden and who have some form of education is very low. I wonder whether Niklas Karlsson is aware of the duality that exists among the unemployed. What is the situation for those outside? Does unemployment among them increase or decrease? What is the idea of taking care of people who find it difficult to enter the labour market? I would also like to raise the issue of tax cuts, because this is an issue on which the Social Democrats and also the Left Party constantly came back. I would like to ask Niklas Karlsson : Is Niklas Karlsson aware of how much more money in real terms came into the well-being of the municipal sector during the period of the alliance government, 2006–2014? Reduced or increased resources for pupils, residents and inpatients – to welfare at all? Increased or reduced resources? I've been trying to look through this. I have also examined some interviews that have been done with the Prime Minister and with Magdalena Andersson and also with your party secretary. The Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish Parliament's investigation service have shown that the resources for health care, education and care increased steadily, by 33 per cent, during the time of the alliance government. I would like Niklas Karlsson to comment on that.
i-1989b103345f6cba-607	Madam President, I would like It is worth pointing out that this is not Parliament's Question Time but a debate and that one should represent one's own proposals. But I'm going to give the Center Party's Peter Helander a chance to discuss what he says. This is the case: those who are far from the labour market must be given the opportunity to enter the labour market. They must have the ability to provide for themselves. Unlike many of the bourgeois parties, I do not believe that this is solved by telling the unemployed that it is their own moral responsibility to get jobs. Instead, as politicians, we should ensure that we face up to this so that the unemployed can take the jobs that exist. That is why we represent a line in which we say that we should have an active labour market policy. We spend quite a lot more on these measures than the bourgeois parties do in their draft budgets. We say that, now that we have surpluses in state finances, this should be used for reform. It should be used to strengthen people and to reduce inequality, and it should be used throughout the country. Against this stands the bourgeoisie and says that it will work out if we can only lower the tax. I think it's wrong. I would also venture to say that experience says – and history has shown – that that policy does not work. I also think that we have to start quite early. Targeting those currently excluded from the labour market is not enough. We must give children the opportunity to take advantage of basic education already in school, and we must also strengthen them in their ability to take the step further and educate themselves in higher education institutions and universities. I think this is good for Sweden and for these children. Then we must also ensure that resources are invested, especially in municipalities, including in the field of education. There we see the same thing: instead of doing this, the Center Party cuts 4.8 billion on education in municipalities and county councils and instead invests in tax cuts. I think that's the wrong way to go.
i-SZVCaLpRvW5XrigsDgrnPB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Karlsson, for your answer. There is probably no doubt that all parties want people to come into their own livelihoods and gain power over their own lives or that all parties want to reduce the social unrest and divisiveness of the country. I think we all agree on this. The only question is how to achieve this. Is it achieved by providing subsidies so that people find themselves in a new form of dependence on the public? This is the difference between the Social Democratic and environmental party government, supported by the Left Party, and the Alliance. We believe that it is real jobs and entrepreneurship that create a cohesive Sweden. There is a policy, which may have existed since the early 70s, which believes that subsidies can create jobs. But that's not how it works. It is by reducing the cost of jobs and entrepreneurship that we build a sustainable and stable country. This is what separates us. We invest our money in improving the conditions for jobs and entrepreneurship. That is the difference. Job tax deductions, as well as tax cuts for pensioners, gave more money to welfare – 100 billion in fixed prices. Even if inflation and more inhabitants were excluded, this gave more money. But the Social Democrats keep coming back to the fact that tax cuts do not solve any problems. The tax cuts in themselves do not solve the problems, but they make people prone to work more and to education. Above all, it is about people being inclined to work more hours, as Niklas Karlsson himself mentioned in his speech. More hours worked are the basis for building Swedish welfare. That is why we need to have more people paying taxes. We need to get more jobs, and we need to reduce the costs of entrepreneurship.
i-1989b103345f6cba-621	Madam President, I would like I was particularly attracted to a passus in Peter Helander's speech. He said we should watch out for people to become addicted to the public. That is a very strange reasoning. We want to invest in education for people to be strengthened and for their freedom to be increased, for inequality to be reduced and for people, hopefully, to be able to live a good and happy life. Against it is a bourgeois policy which says that we should cut back on this, with some strange reasoning that it puts people in a position of dependence. I certainly do not share that view. Peter Helander asked a question about what it looked like with the real tax base in municipalities and county councils during the bourgeois government period, which I did not have time to answer in my previous reply, so I would like to mention something about it. I have taken this opportunity to take a moment to look at this. I have not only been assisted by SKL but also by other institutions working with the local government sector, including Kommuninvest, which is perhaps the association or organisation that has the best knowledge of Sweden's economy. Since 2014, the real tax base in Sweden's municipalities and county councils has grown every year. So Peter Helander's right. But the question arises as to whether this is enough. No, I don't think so. The growth of the real tax base is a good prerequisite. We can make this happen in several ways, including by ensuring that the number of hours worked increases. It's important. At the same time, we will do it so that the whole country can live. We are seeing a trend towards the growth of metropolitan regions, with the rate of urbanisation we have, while demographic change in other parts of the country. When the professionals move away from there, there are those to be supported, either in school or in the care of the elderly. We are faced with a great need for skills in the future, and this problem is not only solved by reducing taxes. We need to come back to that discussion.
i-1989b103345f6cba-630	Madam President, I would like There is often talk of tax pressure in this House. Last week I participated in a seminar with the idea that the seven northernmost counties in Sweden would get more back from the values they produce – from the forest, from hydroelectric power and from the mines. At the same time, those who held the seminar highlighted an interesting aspect of tax policy that is rarely highlighted in the national media: the difference in municipal tax and county tax between different municipalities in Sweden. Today, the average tax difference between the seven northernmost counties and the rest of Sweden is SEK 2 per hundred. This leads to an increase in taxation of a total of 7 billion. If you take extremes, there is a difference of SEK 6 in tax between rich municipalities such as Vellinge, Kävlinge and Solna compared to the sparsely populated municipality of Dorotea. Here in Parliament bourgeois parties shout in the sky over air taxes, reduced cut-off point for government taxes or 3:12 rules, to give some examples. Instead of debating excise duties and marginal taxes, I think that more of the debate should be about the unfair difference that exists with regard to the tax that most of us pay, namely the municipal tax. What municipal tax we have is, of course, linked to the tax equalisation system, which has the task of compensating for differences in, for example, sparseness. At the same time, we can see that the levelling-up of the system is deteriorating. It is good that there is now an investigator investigating the slightly smaller system of the two – the cost compensation system. It will be interesting to read the final report this summer. It is reasonable for the investigation to reverse a few stones, such as refugee reception and sparseness. But it is clear that the SEK 6 that exists in differences in municipal taxes are more than just differences in levels of ambition for welfare. This year, the Left Party has launched a motion on the municipal equalisation system in which we propose that the government set up a parliamentary preparation to continuously monitor and adapt the municipal equalisation system to changing demographic and structural conditions. This is a proposal supported by all parties in the Rural Committee. It would also be good if the income equalisation system had a review with a view to smoothing out today's huge differences. Around the corner are major welfare challenges, and if one is to believe, for example, the Long-term investigation, municipal tax may need to be significantly increased in the future. Jakob Forssmed, who has unfortunately gone off to an important meeting, previously raised the issue of a municipal tax brake, which is something I would strongly object to. He believes that more needs to be done and that politicians don't. I believe, however, that it is exactly the opposite and that the politicians who are elected in Sweden and rural and rural municipalities are on quite a large scale. The difference for them compared to the politicians who sit in Kävlinge, Vellinge or Solna is that in these municipalities they have to a very large extent land sales as the municipality's revenue base. There is also a rich, well-educated and, to a relatively small extent, sick population, which generates large tax revenues. Rather, we need to find ways of levelling out the differences that exist in Sweden rather than punishing those who grin on in the headwind. In the budget negotiated by the Left Party with the Government, there are several important investments in municipalities. Last year's investment in 10 welfare billions still has a major impact in municipalities, and the increase in state funding is an important explanation for the good economic development of the local government sector. This year, the Left Party has pushed through a fair emigrant for the failed Sweden. There is now a ten-year multi-billion-dollar investment that will affect many mills, sparsely populated municipalities, working-class parts and suburbs around Sweden. The money should be applied for by municipalities that have areas characterised by, for example, high unemployment, low levels of education and low voting turnout. The use of funds will vary in different areas, but efforts for jobs, education, service, leisure and social work will be central. It starts a little bit with half a billion next year and then increases to 21⁄2 billion a year. I think it will be important money to compensate and support the development of the failed Sweden. Municipalities also receive several well-targeted state grants. Support for activities for children and young people will be extended by an additional 250 million. In addition, there will be free swimming school, free public transport in the summer for young people and more money for social services for children and young people who are in trouble. The activities of libraries are also strengthened. The spring budget proposed the introduction of a new state grant for the introduction programme of upper secondary school. The new reform extends and reinforces this effort by 300 million. The aim of the initiative is to increase the quality and throughput of the upper secondary school's introduction programme. These could include employment of different categories of staff, efforts to increase the proportion of qualified teachers or interaction with civil society. A statutory habilitation allowance for people with intellectual disabilities who work is introduced. The purpose of the grant is to support the municipalities in their efforts to encourage the individual to participate in the activities, for example by introducing or increasing the daily allowance. I think that will make life better for many with functional variations. One of the most important political reforms is the abolition of the right to deduct private health care. It has been a scourge that has led us to move in the direction of an increasingly Americanised health care system where the one who can pay goes first, not the one with the greatest need. Now we get an equal health care where needs govern, while at the same time investing in strengthening psychiatry and increasing access to treatment of mental illness. This is an initiative that, in the light of the metoo, feels particularly important because women are more affected by ill health than men due, among other things, to greater responsibility for unpaid domestic work and worse conditions in the labour market. Children's health also receives an important investment. The outreach activity to catch children with poor health is strengthened. The Landstingen will be allocated more resources between 2018 and 2020 to increase accessibility. It involves efforts to increase the number of home visits during the infant period, including vaccination against rotavirus in the general vaccination programme, increased information on vaccinations to meet vaccination schepticism and information on dental health. Childbirth care has a major investment of 1 billion. We see how the distances have become longer and longer to BB in the north, while the space shortage is great in our larger cities. No woman should be required to refrain from cell sampling for screening cervical cancer for economic reasons. That's why we're investing in free cell sampling. General dental care allowance is provided as an annual allowance to the user of dental care, and the allowance varies according to how old you are. After the reform, those aged between 23 and 29 receive an increase of SEK 300. This also applies to all older people over 65. For adults between 30 and 65 years of age, the premium is increased by SEK 150. An effort is now being made to target healthcare staff of 2 billion over three years. The money will be used to improve the human resources situation and develop health care activities. The funds may be used to review working conditions, offer skills development, increase staffing and develop working methods in order for healthcare professionals to remain in the healthcare sector. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-1989b103345f6cba-652	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has an interesting role to play. The party is both opposition and budget manager. It's gonna be a little extra exciting. In his speech, Håkan Svenneling stated that the Left Party would like to review the equalisation system. Then you realize that we see different problems. The investigation now only looks at the cost compensation part, which Håkan Svenneling was involved in. However, it may not be known that the investigation concerns only 10% of the tax equalisation system, as well as a part that is totally financed by the municipalities. So no money comes from the state at all. The income equalisation component is significantly larger and considerably more extensive. I have great sympathy for the need to support some municipalities that are in a difficult situation. But most of the grants go to Gothenburg and Malmö, but it is perhaps not those municipalities that have such problems that they would need support. In Malmö, for example, 29 percent of revenue comes from the income compensation system. I'm a little curious about the issue of health care. The queues of health care have doubled since the end of the Alliance during the time that the Left Party has supported the budget. I don't really get the picture of what Håkan Svenneling describes together with what the budget does. How can you increase the size of the cake? It is about jobs, entrepreneurship and getting the cake to grow, not just distributing the cake. It's usually Mats Persson's picture, but I'm borrowing it for this occasion.
i-1989b103345f6cba-657	Madam President, I would like I agree very much with Anette Åkesson's description. The budget takes important steps to strengthen county councils and the financing of health care. I mentioned a whole bunch of different targeted bets. In addition, there are important initiatives that have been added, such as the welfare billions. They came last year, and it has been announced that they will arrive in the coming years by 2020. It will strengthen and ensure good healthcare throughout the country. It is important that we sometimes use targeted state subsidies to identify areas where we see that developments are not moving in the right direction. For me, there are two areas that affect women to a large extent, partly maternity care, which we have seen does not work in a good way throughout Sweden, and partly care related to mental illness. It is therefore entirely reasonable for the Riksdag to point with the whole hand and say that there is money here, there should be increased efforts here and these are areas where health care needs to be improved. Anette Åkesson wondered how the size of the cake would be bigger. That is what we are basically seeing right now. The boom helps and contributes. At the same time, we see positive signals that we have not seen for a long time. I am thinking above all of the increase in employment in society. Sweden has Europe's highest levels of employment. This shows how important gender equality work is in getting women into the labour market. It is because there are more women in the labour market that there will be higher tax revenues and increased productivity. That is why gender equality is so important in the labour market. I am concerned about the conditions prevailing in the labour market in Sweden. We know that women are more often part-time unemployed and work part-time, which means that their opportunities are deteriorating and that they have increased ill-health as a consequence of what it looks like in the labour market.
i-1989b103345f6cba-661	Madam President, I would like I think we are all seeing the problem of the dualisation of the labour market. However, it is under the current government, where the Left supports the budget, that there are in absolute terms more unemployed among foreign born than among natives. The population is then not so large. It is a dramatic deterioration and a dramatic challenge that we need to tackle with various integration measures. A year ago, we were here too. I then raised the issue of the challenges of targeted state subsidies as opposed to general state subsidies. Håkan Svenneling then expressed that he thought it was an interesting thought, and he agreed with the description of the problem. When I have looked at how the government has behaved in terms of state subsidies, there has been some increase in absolute numbers, but it is above all an increase in targeted state subsidies, which are now at levels above 50%. In the coming years, they will fall to 42% by 2020. During the alliance period, the share of targeted state grants was 37 – 38 per cent. That proportion has grown. When you say that you give more money to the welfare, it is also so that 2018 is 4.9 of the 5.9 billion a clean compensation for new decisions, just as I was in the debate with Niklas Karlsson. According to SKL, it is necessary not to undermine the finances of municipalities and county councils 2-3 billion to compensate for price and wage increases. In the future, it is true that there will be 5 billion in general government grants in 2018 and 2019, but more – 6 billion and 8 billion respectively – will be deducted from targeted state grants, i.e. net reductions in government grants. Thus, municipalities and county councils will have more difficulties in the future. How does Håkan Svenneling feel about that?
i-1989b103345f6cba-666	Madam President, I would like Unemployment among foreign-born people is something that we should definitely take seriously. There was also positive news today that this is moving in the right direction. We see that the lack of skilled labour that exists in the companies and that they need to hire more meet by educating more people, just as Niklas Karlsson was on, and making sure to match the efforts we make with targeted efforts on the people who are outside – not on the whole group as in the time of the bourgeois government, when, for example, I received state grants even though I had jobs. I also think it is important to see the long-term unemployed, whom I think has disappeared from the Swedish debate. People who have work capacity but require certain special conditions to enter the labour market have been knocked out by the fierce competition in the Swedish labour market. Now that we're in a state of prosperity, those people need to come in. We clearly saw under the bourgeois government that those who were long-term unemployed got caught up in long-term unemployment for a very long time. It is a group that I think politics should care more about and worry more about. In order to get to the point of general and targeted state subsidies, which I think Mrs Anette is addressing in an interesting way, I must say that I still think we have taken steps in the right direction. I see that we are highlighting and raising general state subsidies in a good way. This year there will be a number of targeted state subsidies, as in previous years, but there will also be a review of existing state subsidies. It is particularly in the field of education that we need to take a good deal of action – there are a huge number of state subsidies of various kinds. I think that we need to find a model for the future where we have targeted state subsidies over a period of time, but we need to ensure that after a period almost automatically they become general so that we do not roll them forward year after year. I think it is good for politics to govern, but good models should also be found to support and help the municipalities.
i-1989b103345f6cba-671	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation in this report to be approved. The report, Additional measures for macroprudential supervision, which we are now going to discuss, is about the conditions for parts of Finansinspektionen's work with financial stability. This is an important area that is of great importance to the Swedish economy as a whole, where the overall responsibility is shared with the Riksbank and the Swedish National Debt Office. Let me first state that the conditions for work on financial stability in Sweden leave a great deal to be desired. A recurring problem is the question of the division of responsibilities between the three authorities and the respective powers of the respective authorities in their part of the mission. It is crucial for the work on financial stability that the authorities dealing with the issue have a clear mandate and that cooperation between the authorities functions well. The shortcomings in how we handle our work with financial stability in Sweden are well documented. These are shortcomings in the division of responsibilities and powers and, not least, how the work of the operational authorities can be better synchronised. The present report deals with a small part of a small part of this problem complex. The report's proposal instructs Finansinspektionen to draw up regulations for some parts of the credit market for creditors working under the Mortgage Act. It has been noted in several contexts that there are major shortcomings in Finansinspektionen's mandate. The question was asked at its head in 2015, when a provision on amortisation requirements was declared illegal and the measure was delayed in anticipation of new legislation with worse results as a result. It is absolutely crucial to create with balanced measures a sufficiently broad and deep mandate, together with the related policy tools for each area, so that the agency can fulfil its mission and thereby contribute to good stability on the Swedish financial market. The proposal has three main proposals: firstly, to require credit institutions operating under the Mortgage Act not to contribute to financial imbalances in the credit market; secondly, to apply the amortisation requirement also to creditors operating under the Mortgage Act; and thirdly, to allow regulations in other EEA countries to apply to Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like It is good that the government is trying to address these important issues. The mortgage market can be considered as a powder keg with high potential risks to the Swedish economy. There is therefore a need for better regulation of how Finansinspektionen should deal with issues in this sector as well as in other parts of the financial sector that can lead to financial imbalances and crises. It is good that Finansinspektionen is tasked with building a set of regulations that can be activated if necessary when financial imbalances are at risk. We believe that more work should be done on prevention and, in this way, on preparedness for action. It helps to increase the Authority's ability to deal with problems properly and increases the speed of action when they need to be deployed, which in turn helps to increase confidence in the Authority's actions. It's a very important piece. We have advocated such a development in our proposal for a new way of organising the work on financial stability, which we have been exercising over the last two years. We had thus expected a significantly better bill that reflects an understanding by the government that what the authorities need is clearer rules and a well-balanced mandate. We would have needed a significantly more thorough proposal for a toolbox for Finansinspektionen's entire work on macroprudential policy. We would have needed proposals for clearer boundaries and better interaction between the three authorities. Madam President, I would like The mortgage market is important, absolutely. I think we all agree on that. However, it is not enough to manage a small part of this market to create stability. Today, we have to keep to what is being offered, but we have two main objections to the formulation of the proposals put forward by the government in the bill with the aim to clarify responsibilities, powers and tools in macroprudential policy. Firstly, we believe that there is a risk that the Government's proposal will not lead to the objective it has set itself. We believe that regulations that can be activated in different predetermined situations and scenarios are good, but to give the desired effect it is necessary that the catalogue of regulations is sufficiently comprehensive. The proposals now before us are only a little bit along the way. There is a need for a broad focus on balanced regulations for different scenarios in all the areas in which macroprudential policy is to be exercised. The snutification proposals in the report risk leading to new uncertainty about Finansinspektionen's ability to manage risks in the financial system as a whole. Secondly, we believe that the government needs to clarify what is meant in this particular context by countering measures and companies that are or contribute to financial imbalances in the financial market, linked to the proposed measures. It becomes unclear what is meant by such a broad approach when the delimitation of the regulations is set to deal only with restrictions that can be linked to new mortgages or the activities involved. The delimitation of the area of action means that several of the financial imbalances that the Government points to risks for will not be managed by means of the narrow regulations that Finansinspektionen is commissioned to develop. Herein lies a danger of uncertainty as to what the Government's intentions for Finansinspektionen's mandate actually look like or what future possible imbalances might be addressed with the measures in question. That is why clarification is needed. One important issue in the report is the management of the amortisation requirement. A special type of credit, capital release credit, is aimed at people with low income and a low-borrowed dwelling that you want to stay in. The idea is that you borrow part of the value of your home but postpone both interest and amortisation until you finally dispose of the dwelling in the final stage of life. The very point of these credits is that you should be able to use the value of your home to, for example, consume and live a better life even though you do not have sufficient income. A common denominator for loans of this kind is that borrowers are not granted regular bank loans due to under-income. If such credits were to be amortised under these conditions, they would not exist at all. We therefore believe that such credits should not be subject to the amortisation requirement. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to call on the government to build on the intentions of this proposal and return to Parliament with more and more thought-out proposals so that we finally have a balanced regulatory framework for the work on macroprudential supervision and the whole field of financial stability measures. We also believe that, in this context, the government should make a proper assessment of, for example, the amortisation requirement and the mortgage ceiling, as a guide to future proposals. It is becoming quite urgent to achieve a comprehensive regulatory framework of this kind. Today's decision, compared to the need for action, can be likened to a portion of appetizing garlic bread starting with a balanced five-course menu, so there is still a lot to be done.
i-1989b103345f6cba-690	Madam President, I would like We are therefore now debating the report which deals with proposals to give Finansinspektionen additional tools for macroprudential supervision. I would like to start by pointing out that I find it incredibly reassuring that we in committee have a very broad consensus on the proposals, and I call for the committee's proposal and rejection of the motion to be approved. I also note that the responsible minister intends to take part in the debate, which I think is very good. Madam President, I would like In recent years, several measures have been taken to reduce macro-financial and financial stability risks with increasing household indebtedness and to strengthen consumer protection in this context. Finansinspektionen introduced in 2010 a general advice that a mortgage loan should not exceed 85 per cent of the market value of the dwelling, the so-called mortgage ceiling. Finansinspektionen also introduced a risk weight floor for mortgages in 2013, which means that banks must hold a flat-rate minimum capital amount for a certain value of outstanding mortgages. The requirement was tightened from 15 per cent in 2013 to 25 per cent in 2014. The new EU solvency rules for credit institutions and investment firms were introduced in 2014. In addition, the government has presented billions of investments in the housing sector in recent years to stimulate increased housing construction, and we now see that new production is taking off properly. During the spring of 2015, there was some uncertainty as to what legal support Finansinspektionen had to take measures regarding amortisation requirements. At that time an agreement was reached between the government, the bourgeois parties and the Left Party, which led us to a new legislation that makes this clear. It entered into force in May 2016. The Government has also recently said yes to Finansinspektionen's request to introduce a certain tightening of the amortisation requirement from 1 March 2018. It is gratifying that the same parties that supported this agreement now also agree to give Finansinspektionen the broader mandate to take measures in the future that go beyond the amortisation requirement. Madam President, I would like The proposals in the report introduce a new requirement for credit institutions and creditors operating under the Mortgage Act. They shall operate in such a way that they do not contribute to financial imbalances in the credit market. This focuses in particular on different types of limitations on how large loans and interest expenses the borrower can be considered to be clear in relation to his financial conditions. This may be the case for individual loans or the total lending by the creditor over a certain period. It shall apply only to new credits. Furthermore, the proposal provides that the amortisation requirement, which currently applies only to credit institutions, should also be applied by those operating under the Mortgage Act. It is reasonable to regulate so that these creditors cannot contribute to unhealthy competition by offering loan conditions that can cause financial instability from a macro perspective. Finally, it is proposed to introduce in Sweden the possibility of recognising requirements imposed in another country within the ESS that correspond to the amortisation requirement or the requirement not to contribute to financial imbalances. The proposal concerns the activities of a Swedish credit institution in the country in question. Finansinspektionen – this is important – will continue to obtain the government's consent before introducing additional tools for macroprudential policy. Madam President, I would like The background to the gradual strengthening of macroprudential policy both internationally and in Sweden is, of course, the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, BCBS, develops international standards for banking supervision, and the latest reform package – Basel III – implemented within the EU in the so-called capital adequacy framework in 2014 includes, among other things, increased demands on institutions' liquidity, capital and macroprudential tools. In Sweden, Finansinspektionen is responsible for macroprudential policy, and its mandate was extended on 1 January 2014 to include the responsibility to take measures to counteract financial imbalances in order to stabilise the credit market – but taking into account the impact of the measures on economic development. The question then arose whether Finansinspektionen's mandate is sufficient to take care of this extended responsibility, which resulted in the new legislation on Finansinspektionen's right to issue regulations on amortisation requirements. It entered into force in May 2016. Nevertheless, views have been expressed from this House as well as from the Financial Supervisory Authority, the IMF and the European Commission on the need to further clarify responsibilities, powers, tools, and the process of macroprudential supervision. Madam President, I would like Against this background, as I said at the outset, it is gratifying that we have a broad agreement on the proposals we are dealing with here today. It is important for stability that we agree on the macroprudential framework. It is also good that the government is clear that it is reasonable to make exceptions in the case of, for example, older people who have their security in a home they already own and do not pay amortization or interest on an ongoing basis during the credit period, so-called senior loans. The Government considers that there is reason to evaluate and follow up that the tools that may be envisaged fulfil their purpose but that this should be done when the tools have been applied for a period of time, so that a realistic assessment can be made. The committee shares the assessment made by the government. Some consultation bodies believe that the requirement should be clarified more precisely, while the Government considers that the draft law is in line with the other provisions of the Banking and Finance Act and the Mortgage Act. The proposal means that Finansinspektionen can issue regulations whose consequences must be investigated so that the effects are described. In addition, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority will obtain the government's consent before introducing additional tools, which of course strengthens the possibility of democratic accountability. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to conclude by calling on all interested parties to follow the annual hearing on financial stability and the distribution of responsibilities for macro-prudential policy that the committee will conduct next time on 23 January next year.
i-1989b103345f6cba-705	Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the Alliance are also in favour of the committee's proposal, perhaps with a slightly more nuanced picture than we have just heard from the speaker. It is also important to inculcate what was certainly emphasised at the end of the previous speech but which was unclear at the beginning: you can delegate tasks, but you can never delegate responsibilities. The responsibility for financial stability and the consequences of the proposals lies with the responsible minister and therefore with the entire government. Finansinspektionen is a tool to achieve the policy objectives. It is not independent in the sense that the Riksbank, for example, is. On 9 September 2008, the Lehman share will decline by 45 per cent. Standard and Poors 500-index drops the same day by 3.4 percent. The day after, 10 September 2008, the Riksbank raises the repo rate by 0.25 percentage points up to 4.75 per cent. This happens in the autumn when both the ECB and Fed lower interest rates. So we have a trend in Swedish interest rate policy that runs counter to the rest of the world. On 23 April 2010, Greece requested emergency loans of EUR 45 billion – a sum so large that it is difficult to relate to – including from the IMF. On 27 July, i.e. shortly thereafter, the Riksbank will begin a long series of interest rate increases for the Swedish economy. Then inflation expectations in the economy are broken. We are entering a situation where the economy is turning upwards but where the Riksbank feels obliged to lower interest rates instead in order to reach its inflation target. We are then in what is often described as an abnormal state of economic policy. Of course, this can be discussed on a cross-sectional and back-to-back basis. But there is a broad consensus that boom, combined with low interest rates, will of course fuel debt. Everything else is unthinkable. This has also been controversial within the Riksbank with open conflicts in a way that is neither desirable nor, for that matter, particularly expected from an authority such as the Riksbank, where this abnormal interest rate policy has been widely debated. This, of course, has also led to a sharp increase in household indebtedness. Madam President, I would like Household indebtedness was levelled against income from 2006 onwards. But the abnormal interest rate policy has broken this trend and of course further exposed Swedish households to risk. It naturally exposes the entire Swedish society and the entire Swedish economy, jobs, welfare and security to risks. We are happy to praise ourselves in Sweden for having a low public debt, and that is certainly true. However, if you weigh up public debt and household indebtedness, we are hardly better than other countries. Then we're possibly average. We've only divided the risk in a different way. This is partly due to factors on which there is broad consensus. It's good that you own your own accommodation. It is generally better to own the dwelling than to rent it, especially if you belong to the economically weaker groups in the community, as the rented accommodation becomes more expensive over time. It will, of course, shift some of the debt from state to household. There is a broad consensus on this. However, it is not only the Riksbank and interest rate policy that affect financial stability or the emergence of financial imbalances. These are more fundamental problems in society. The most fundamental problem, Madam President, is the Swedish dysfunctional housing situation, where we have a very passive government that has not been able to take a single measure for a full term of office, which, according to some credible assessor, improves the functioning of the housing market. Here there is a double lock between an environmental party that does not want to make any changes on the side that limits supply and a social democracy that in no way wants to bump into the Tenants' Association, even if in the long term it would be better for the next generation of tenants. This has also been pushed on by a very irresponsible social democracy, which through government agencies has set fire to or even started the major financial imbalances in Sweden. The problems were limited until the beginning of the 21st century, when a very activist policy was initiated by the state-owned company SBAB. Before that, you could borrow up to 70 or 80 per cent, depending on whether it was a villa or whether it was a right-of-occupancy apartment. Then it was decided from the state side, with a very activistic attitude, that this would be removed. People would borrow for the capital investment. That was the motto at the beginning of the 21st century. We can think about what that means. But it was an aggressive campaign from a Social Democratically led Sweden through SBAB that debt would be up to 100 per cent or even over 100 per cent when it came to buying housing. This naturally led to a very explosive development of household indebtedness. It was a very irresponsible move by a state-owned company that has now put Sweden in a very difficult situation. What we are discussing here today, about additional tools in macro-prudential policy, we should jointly be aware of is a relief but not a cure for the problems we have. Madam President, I would like Today, we choose to prescribe ourselves a little more Magnecyl, when it may actually be a proper medical examination, wellness or perhaps even proper medicine that the country needs to deal with the basic problems. That doesn't mean we don't need the Magnecyl. Madam President, I would like It is worrying, however, that there is no improvement in the basic problem areas, and in particular in the housing market. For the long-term economic development, for the stability of the financial system and to counter the financial imbalances, i.e. two out of three of Finansinspektionen's mandates, it would be better to adopt structural reform-oriented policies that solve the fundamental problems rather than simply allay the symptoms. Madam President, I would like It is also understandable that these proposals to shift responsibility or at least tasks to an authority come from the government. We do not have a strong history in Sweden, and especially in the Social Democrats, of managing this within the framework of the political system. That is why this type of data is transferred to authorities. In this regard, there has been an insight in the alliance government, which started this and makes Finansinspektionen more potent. It is even more urgent in these times when we see how the second part of economic policy, fiscal policy, is totally rejected by all the expert authorities – the Council of Finance Policy, the National Audit Office, the Institute of Economic Affairs and so on – who clearly say that fiscal policy is contrary to the fiscal framework. It is therefore necessary to weigh up the second leg of financial stability. Madam President, I would like However, it is important that we also see and note that there is an awareness of the drawbacks that may exist around this – negative impact on growth and negative impact on unemployment. A great deal of regulation can also lead to imbalances in the economy that we do not know beforehand. Often this is exactly how it works. A benevolent and well-meaning policy that tries to solve the problems we have today succeeds in a way that cannot be predicted to create problems that arise tomorrow. There is therefore reason both to be humble in taking the necessary measures of the kind that we are now proposing and, of course, to be a little forward-looking and to be careful not to settle for the painkillers but to tackle the basic problem. Here, of course, we are calling for more and proper action by the government. Madam President, I would like Finally, a small and open economy such as the Swedish one, with a large currency without any international monetary cooperation that in different ways can guarantee our stability in different times of crisis, although there are of course also advantages in standing outside, must of course safeguard stability and robustness in the Swedish system. Today, we are giving more opportunity to the relevant authority to do so with the approval of the government. This is necessary in the situation that has arisen, but we must also ask ourselves whether it is the most desirable thing. We are familiar with the downsides of a highly regulated credit market, which we have tried before in Sweden. It also has a price. It is therefore a wish of us Moderates that instead of just turning to the pill jar, the current government should also take hold of the health care of the economic system, where the housing market is a fundamental problem and drives household indebtedness. There is also reason for the Social Democrats to self-critically reflect on how this system came about and how it was fired on by a state bank, and to tackle tax systems and housing market regulations so that the financial system itself becomes more robust and resilient. But in anticipation of this, it goes without saying that we in the Moderates support in the most weighty way possible a direction that makes Sweden more robust and resilient by the fact that the authority concerned is potent to carry out the necessary measures.
i-1989b103345f6cba-724	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Wykman, for your speech. That's interesting to hear. I heard Niklas Wykman say several times that this is a proposal and a report on which we very much agree. At least two or three times you said that. But given what you said otherwise, it didn't feel like there was any credibility in what you stressed. I would therefore like to ask: do you, on the part of the Moderates, agree with the government on the meaning of this? For example, you have been very clearly critical of the last thing the government did when it accepted Finansinspektionen's proposal to strengthen the amortisation requirement. The question must therefore be asked in this context. You are now clearly signaling that you are not prepared to support what the government has done, namely to say yes to the increased amortisation requirement. Do you thereby, if you have the opportunity, weaken the cohesion of macroprudential supervision by tearing up an amortisation requirement if it comes about?
i-1989b103345f6cba-726	Madam President, I would like I don't think I can do much about Ingela Nylund Watz's inner emotional life. On the other hand, I can remedy some of her ignorance. There was an agreement based on the possibility for Finansinspektionen to have the necessary tools. There was a political agreement that it was the government that would approve them. So it is the government that is going to do so, Madam President and Mrs Ingela Nylund. It is a very strange situation when an agreement has been made that is based on the agency to design measures and the government to approve them. Then it is not to the Riksdag that you can then turn to. So Ingela Nylund Watz's question is completely irrelevant. It is not the Riksdag that should approve the agreements; it is the government that should do so.
i-1989b103345f6cba-728	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman doesn't have to worry about my inner emotional life. On the other hand, I think there is reason to reflect on the signals that the Moderates have contributed greatly. It is a matter of openly critically saying: we do not support the proposal from the Financial Supervisory Authority; we think it is bad and the timing is bad. I don't know all the words that have been used. It is just as Niklas Wykman himself says: We have an agreement to give the Financial Supervisory Authority this tool. We have agreed that the government should take a position on this and say yes or no. Since the Moderates and at least their party leadership are largely carriers of this agreement, it is important not least for this House to find out how the Moderates intend to act in the future. If there is any doubt that there is agreement on the tools we provide to Finansinspektionen, there is a risk that we will destroy confidence in stability through our own actions. Therefore, I actually think it is relevant to ask the question: What do the Moderates intend to do, given that there is a change of government and one has the opportunity to influence this? If so, will the Moderates push forward the policy of phasing out the enhanced amortisation requirement?
i-1989b103345f6cba-731	Madam President, I would like First of all, two things have to be said. The first is that it is the Social Democracy that has always failed in financial stability in Sweden. You can read yourself to that knowledge. Another thing that Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz can note about uncertainty is that we have a Minister for Finance, a Minister for Housing and a Minister for Finance who has been in open conflict in the media before this decision and has argued various things. So I think Ingela Nylund Watz would do well to be a little humble in her description. However, Madam President, I am nevertheless concerned, because an agreement has been made which clearly states that it is the government that is to authorise the Authority's decision, Ingela Nylund Watz cannot then come to Parliament and say that that is where the decision is to be made. There is a reason why we placed the decision with the government in the first place. If Ingela Nylund Watz seriously thinks it should be anchored in the Riksdag, she must contact her government as soon as possible and say that this should be renegotiated and that the decision should be moved to the Riksdag. What Ingela Nylund Watz is now doing is violating the agreement we have, namely that it is the government that is going to make the decision. In such a serious matter, it is extremely irresponsible to circumvent the agreement we have, in which the government is to take decisions. If Ingela Nylund Watz wants this decision to be made in the Swedish parliament, the agreement will be demolished. There is probably reason for the Government to be present here to comment on the excursion from the agreement that Mrs Ingela Nylund has just made.
i-1989b103345f6cba-736	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating an issue that sounds very difficult; not least when you hear Niklas Wykman, this sounds very complicated. It also sounds like it has nothing to do with people's finances, but it's actually exactly the opposite. Macroeconomics is, very simplistic, all Swedes' economics gathered at a national level. Since the financial crisis, the debate and discussion on macro-prudential policy have increased sharply, and that is basically very good. The market has no interest in taking responsibility – it has an interest in making money. That's why you should get to grips with these issues when the big banks, brokers or the Banking Association say that new regulations are bad. Bad for who? For the banks, for the state or for the individual? The question is whether there is any regulation that the banks have basically been in favour of, or whether it is just about different degrees of resistance. The large banks have now shown very good profitability at historically high levels, and they have also increased their margins on mortgages, which means that the increased indebtedness of households has been a good deal for the big banks. By receiving this assignment, Finansinspektionen increases macroprudential supervision. At the same time, the model strikes a reasonable balance between efficiency and democracy. If you need to implement measures quickly, for example in connection with a crisis, Finansinspektionen is now given a mandate to quickly come up with proposals for action. At the same time, the government has the power to decide, which ensures democracy. Responsibility can still be demanded by a government, whether it is social-democratic or bourgeois-led. The government must therefore constantly make an overall assessment when new measures are introduced. The macrorisk that is most relevant for Finansinspektionen to monitor is the increased indebtedness of households in Sweden. In Sweden we have a low public debt. Instead, a large part of the debts lie with households, mainly in the form of loans to own a dwelling. Progress has been fast. For the whole household sector, indebtedness is currently 180 per cent of disposable income. However, households with mortgages had an average debt ratio of 338 per cent in September 2017, which is an increase of 47 percentage points compared to 2010, according to the Riksbank. The same data also show that 640.000 households have a debt-to-GDP ratio above 400%, while 260 000 households have a debt-to-GDP ratio above 600%. It is households with the highest indebtedness that pose the greatest risk in the event of a crisis or disturbance of the economy as they may lose large amounts of money, and may tighten their economy so strongly and so quickly that it has an impact on their consumption, thereby affecting the national economy. That is why one can calmly say that a society without heavily borrowed households is a better functioning society. In the debate, there have been several proposals on what to do. What would have the greatest effect would be to reduce the incentive for debt on the entire stock of borrowers, for example by reducing interest rebates. The Left Party was out early demanding such a de-escalation, and today six out of eight parties believe that this would be a good measure. Regrettably, there is an axis in Swedish politics between Social Democrats and Moderates who refuse to do anything about the problem, especially when they think it may harm their opinion figures. It may prove to be an expensive lesson in the future. Instead, various proposals have been put forward for new borrowers. This has a significantly lower impact on household indebtedness, and any measures will have a greater impact on young households entering the housing market or often changing their homes as they form a family. In the past, the mortgage ceiling, i.e. a house's own contribution, has been raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. An amortisation requirement has been introduced in order to get all households to amortise their debt and not just to pay their interest costs. The present proposal, on which the government has already taken a position, is an additional amortisation requirement for the highest-borrowed households – those who take a loan over four and a half times their income. The proposal aims at the 15 per cent of households that are most leveraged and imposes a higher amortisation rate. This reduces their incentive to borrow a lot. The Left Party has come to the conclusion that this is a good measure. These are households that are at risk of creating imbalances in the economy, and therefore it is reasonable to apply macro-measures to their high loan-to-value ratio. At the same time, Finansinspektionen's analyses indicate that these are healthy households with relatively good income. Not many are very young. This means that this measure is said to have a cooling effect on the previously unhealthy housing market. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-1989b103345f6cba-753	Madam President, I would like The last ten years have been marked by the financial crisis and its consequences. This, in my view, shows in a tangible way the importance of building a robust financial system that contains rules that will enable it to manage that it is starting to blow on the financial markets. The proposal that is now before Parliament is a proposal that the government has negotiated with the opposition. I'm glad we across the block have been able to find a common understanding of what this should look like. It is a work that began under the Alliance Government, and it has taken a very long time, but now the Red-Green Government has finally come up with a proposal for Parliament's table. Madam President, I would like In what we agree on across party boundaries, it is very clear that we give Finansinspektionen a broad and clear mandate, but ultimately it is the political system that takes responsibility for financial stability. This is most evident in the Government's approval of several of the proposals that Finansinspektionen may make to the Government. Why? Firstly, because it is important that the Swedish people, those affected by this type of decision, should be able to make a political accountability of the government. It is important to be able to demand politicians responsible for the decisions that are actually taken. Secondly, because it is important that someone has a holistic perspective. After all, there is always a risk when one is eager to deal with household indebtedness, for example, with measures that have a number of other consequences and effects in society. The overall assessment needs someone to do, and it is reasonable not Finansinspektionen, but the political system and the government. Madam President, I would like We now see, and have seen for too long, how household indebtedness has become a growing problem in Swedish society and is in danger of becoming a bigger problem in the future for the Swedish economy. The last term of office has been marked by tangible inaction and unwillingness to deal with the housing market, as well as a huge reluctance and inability to take political courage to do anything about household indebtedness. This means that we have seen in recent years how debt has increased very much, which is in stark contrast to what I think should shape the debate, namely how people can be stimulated to save. The government has now put forward a proposal to increase the tax on savings at a time when households have a lot of debts. Who understands the logic? No one! In a situation where this passivity has been so clear, Finansinspektionen chooses to come forward with a proposal to strengthen the amortisation requirement. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority says very clearly that this proposal is not at all what we really want to do, but rather that this proposal is being presented because the government has been dragging its feet and has been doing nothing for very many years. It is also said that the proposal is being tabled because there is a lack of other measures. In that situation, I had hoped and expected that the Red-Green Government would do what is stated in what we are discussing in this House today, namely to make an overall assessment of what it means if the amortisation requirement is further tightened. What does that mean for young people? What does it mean for the 28-year-old civil engineer from Linköping who gets the dream job in Stockholm and wants to move there, to a housing market characterized by queues and which means that 28-year-olds in very many cases have to pay expensive thousands to live in second place? To these people the government now says: We want to make it even harder to take the dream job and move to a larger city! It was not the intention of the legislation that is on our table and the regulatory framework that we have taken in hand that the government should so flagrantly ignore taking this overall responsibility. It is also very clear, Madam President, when you ask the government what own assessments, analyses and investigations the government has done to take a holistic approach. The answer is zero – nada. This is not taking political responsibility. It is not taking responsibility for the Swedish housing market. It is not taking responsibility for the young people who want to enter the housing market. It's making the housing market more complicated. It is making it even more difficult for young people to enter the housing market. Madam President, I would like This is happening in a situation where we see price decreases on the Swedish housing market. In Stockholm and Gothenburg there is a real risk that the increased amortisation requirement will drive and deepen the price depression further. This uncertainty is the last thing the Swedish people need. This uncertainty is the last thing young people who have a home or young people who want to move to a new home need. What people need now is security. What people need now is stability. What people need now is a government that takes responsibility for the policy pursued and does not duck and leaves it to a state authority. With this, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of the proposal.
i-1989b103345f6cba-768	Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the bill. Sweden's economy is strong. We are riding on a wave of high global growth, exceptionally low interest rates, high population growth and good reforms historically that benefit Sweden even now. But there are also some problems. Growth per capita is lower. The labour market has major structural problems, which keep newcomers in particular and some young people with low levels of education out there. In the housing market, we have asset prices, high indebtedness in the household sector and major mobility and such problems. In the wake of the latter, there has been a sharp increase in the stockpiling, which represents a vulnerability to the economy. Past crises have taught us the need to strengthen the financial skeleton as the economy grows. It is therefore a good thing that we can broadly agree on a diet that has the potential to counteract fragility. The proposal on macroprudential policy clarifies the framework for financial stability and who is responsible for meeting imbalances in the economy. For us Christian Democrats, it has been important in this process and when we have had talks with the government that there should be a democratic anchoring of the kind of proposals that the authorities have to put forward on the basis of the bill and that it is the government that should finally take responsibility for the proposals. It is not an authority but the government that can make an overall assessment of how these proposals are doing with other developments and policies. This bill is particularly important because it potentially affects millions of households. In the talks with the government, we have been keen to emphasise that the agency should not only look at the macro level when they make their proposals but also how it affects the individual's finances and the conditions for home purchase and that the need and the outcome of reforms should be continuously evaluated. It is good that these perspectives are included in this proposal. That is another reason why it is good that the Government is responsible and has to take a position on the proposals that come from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Has this been done in the present case with stricter amortisation requirements, or debt-to-GDP brake? In this respect, both the democratic assessment of the government's decision and the finding that the wrong decision has been taken on this issue. In my view, the government has also made a flawed analysis of its own. Having first taken note of Finansinspektionen's proposal and then the government's position and yes to the proposal, it is clear to me that it is a question of one and the same analysis. It has not been broadened or deepened by the government, but has chosen to go entirely on the inspection's analysis. Of course, this can be done, but it would have been beneficial to get more from a government's own analysis of how this affects the conditions, not least for mobility in the housing market and for young households who already find it difficult to enter the housing market. How does it affect the mortgage market and price developments in the housing sector, which is currently in a fragile situation? Nor do we think there have been sufficient evaluations of how the previous amortisation requirement has changed the rules of the market. We are now seeing a very strong growth in blanco loans, i.e. consumer loans without collateral. According to the Riksbank, they have increased from 3 per cent to 8 per cent. The Riksbank explicitly states that this is a consequence of the amortisation requirement. Households are taking more insecure loans to circumvent the amortisation requirement. Since the logic is obviously the same for the enhanced amortisation requirement, we are likely to see the growth of this type of loan increase further. We also see great risks that this may affect mobility. Finansinspektionen acknowledges that mobility will be affected by this proposal on stricter amortisation requirements. We believe that the government should have taken greater account of this type of problem. We can expect the government to do this when you make the overall assessment that you should do when you have a position on a proposal. For an elderly person with a relatively low pension, living each month may be significantly more expensive, and you may face a much higher amortisation requirement just because you are moving. This will not benefit mobility in the Swedish housing market. As Mats Persson pointed out, it also makes it more difficult for young households with lower but stable incomes to enter the owned housing market. We should be careful that we do not create a situation where people with slightly lower but stable incomes cannot enter the owned housing market and are referred to expensive rental apartments. The risk is that we create a poverty trap where you are in a housing that is not adapted for you to live there for a long time and be able to take care of your own housing. You can find yourself in a full service home even though you would really like to own your own home. We need to take a wide range of measures in this regard. We need housing savings for young people on the ground, and we need to ensure that there are starting loans in order to overcome some of these problems. At the same time, at this point, we do not need the kind of stricter amortisation requirements advocated by the government. I also note that the government has had a little difficulty getting around this decision. In Minister Bolund's party there have been different views on this. These different views were not represented in the analysis, which would have been interesting. The government managed to get around a position in this proposal. It would be good if the government were also to concentrate on a position on interest rebates. The Government of Bolund advocates that we reduce interest rebates, but the government partner Social Democrats has no such proposal. I think it is unfortunate that such a discrepancy exists between government parties for such a long time. It creates uncertainty. I personally believe that if you read between the lines, Finansinspektionen does not want a stricter amortisation requirement but a reduced interest rate deduction. But now they are proposing what they can propose, namely this amortisation requirement. Let us sit down and try to reach a broad agreement in which we switch reduced interest rates towards reduced income taxes and at the same time take steps to enable young households without large capital assets but with stable incomes to enter the owned housing market. That would be a far better way to go than to move forward with the stricter amortisation requirement that will now become a reality – and which the government is, of course, fully entitled to decide on because it is in line with the proposal that exists.
i-1989b103345f6cba-790	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the other speakers. It is good that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament for this proposal. It guarantees stability ahead, and it ensures that there will be a capacity to manage financial risks in the Swedish system. It is an important decision that the Riksdag will take in a moment. We are now remedying shortcomings that have existed in the system to manage financial stability and provide a clear legal space for the responsible authority, Finansinspektionen, to be able to develop proposals for measures, investigate them, refer them to the authorities to get their views and then put them on the government's table. It is clear that successful macroprudential supervision is about taking action in good times that reduce the risk of financial and macro-economic instability in the future. You can see it as a form of insurance, and as all policyholders know, you have to pay an insurance premium. However, experience shows that there is often opposition within the political system to making a decision that is a small cost today in return for a reduced risk of a very bad outcome in the future. Such an unwillingness to take responsibility for tomorrow today is a problem. But it is a problem that can be reduced by having a good framework for decision-making and accountability. It is therefore very valuable that we have a broad political consensus that gives a clear mandate to Finansinspektionen to act while ensuring that there is a democratic accountability. The trip there has taken a few years. In January 2014, as part of a broad political agreement and through decisions made by the previous government, Finansinspektionen was appointed responsible authority for macroprudential policy. It can be observed afterwards that the legislation presented at the time was not quite up to date. The legal space that we in the opposition assumed to be there has not proved to be there during the subsequent process, and that is regrettable. If there had been a clear legal margin through the decision put forward by the previous government, the current government would have been able to devote its energies to many other measures. Now we have had to ensure that there is a clear team space for the Financial Supervisory Authority, and I am pleased that we can now make such a proposal. The discussion about the legal space for Finansinspektionen and the mandate that they have to work for occurred primarily in the spring of 2015, when Finansinspektionen was to issue regulations on amortisation requirements. As the discussion came up and there was a doubt, legislation was developed that came into force on 1 May 2016 to make it clear that it would be possible to proceed with the proposal. Even then, there was a broad political agreement behind it, which I value. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has subsequently passed further regulations on amortisation requirements, which entered into force on 1 June 2016. In addition to the amortisation requirement, Finansinspektionen has not had a mandate to use certain additional macroprudential policy tools. Therefore, many assessors, including the Financial Supervisory Authority, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, have stressed that more needs to be done. It needs to be made clear which tools can be used. In connection with the latest evaluation of the Riksbank's monetary policy, the Riksdag assessed that the powers, tools and processes surrounding the macroprudential decision need to be clarified. With regard to the bill, additional tools for macroprudential supervision, which the government, together with the bourgeois parties and with the support of the Left Party, has developed, are a solution to this and further strengthen Finansinspektionen's ability to act preventively. The proposal means that Finansinspektionen's ability to decide on measures that counteract imbalances in credit granting is now being strengthened. The measures should focus on new credits and not affect existing loans. It is in all cases a question of preventive measures, i.e. measures that reduce over time the risks of financial imbalances in the Swedish economic system. The fact that the Financial Supervisory Authority in the framework that we are now discussing first needs the approval of the Government is important in order for there to be an opportunity for democratic accountability. Macroprudential supervision measures can be intervention in the general economy of both households and society. Burden of accountability also allows for an effective interaction between macro-prudential policy and fiscal policy. In the course of the debate, there have been hints of criticism of the government's policy. In this context, it is important to recall the developments that have led to some of the problems that we see in the housing market, such as a sharp rise in house prices. You can't forget the history. The previous government made many decisions that fueled the housing market actively and also led to increased indebtedness, according to our expert authorities' assessments. It is therefore a good thing that we are now going to act and giving a clear mandate. The proposal makes the process of implementing new requirements clearer and more rapid. Sometimes there may be a need for quick policy decisions to address emerging risks and financial imbalances. This does not mean that further action will be taken in the near future, especially in view of the imminent entry into force of the enhanced amortisation requirement, but it is important that there is preparedness in case of need. It is also important to note that this is not, of course, the only measure taken by the government. It is not the only policy available to deal with risks in the economy, but we have a rather broad repertoire. In view of the discussion that has been held in this House, it is perhaps important to point out that this year, according to forecasts, 76 000 new homes will be built in the Swedish housing market and that these are levels that we have not seen in decades and that really did not appear during the previous government's time in power. This is something that I am pleased about, and it is also something that over time will lead to a better balance in the housing market between supply and demand. As there has been a discussion in the debate about the individual tools proposed by Finansinspektionen and to which the Government has given its consent, I think it might be worth mentioning a few words about them as well. We note that household indebtedness has increased rapidly over the last decade and is the most serious risk to the Swedish economy. This says a coherent corps of both Swedish and international assessors. The increase is, of course, closely linked to developments in the housing market in general. There, right-of-occupancy prices in Sweden have tripled since 2005, i.e. over a decade. Villa prices have more than doubled during the same period. Thus, in the last decade, the prices of flats have risen by about 10 per cent per year. We know well from international experience that highly indebted households are particularly vulnerable and vulnerable to macroeconomic disturbances, such as housing price falls or increased unemployment. Households can then find themselves in a situation where they very quickly need to reduce their consumption sharply in order to repay interest and repayments on their loans. It is also well known from international experience that this can both deepen and prolong a recession and, at worst, create a long-term recession. It is worth noting that approximately 70 per cent of households on the Swedish market have variable loans, which means that households are sensitive to interest rate increases in the future. Experience shows that economic crises linked to high or rapidly increasing indebtedness tend to be both long and deep. It is therefore important to come up with concrete, robust measures to deal with these risks. Finansinspektionen, the Swedish National Debt Office and the Riksbank have all highlighted the increasing indebtedness of households as a threat that needs to be addressed. International bodies such as the International Monetary Fund and the OECD have repeatedly come to the same conclusion. The stricter amortisation requirement means that some new mortgage holders who have high mortgages in relation to their income will need to amortise more than they would otherwise have done. Increased amortisation reduces households' debt and interest costs over time and thus strengthens their resilience to economic disruptions. We note that as a result of the high rate of price growth and increased supply on the housing market, the price increase has slowed down somewhat. It is difficult to draw any long-term conclusions from the developments we have seen, but we must follow market developments forward. One reason why there is a slowdown is that the supply has increased much under this government. These were very high levels in 2017, which was partly an effect of the government's active policy where over 10,000 new apartments with reasonable rents have received investment aid. Although price developments have slowed down somewhat, it is important to point out that the stricter amortisation requirement is a structural measure implemented at a time when the Swedish economy is strong. Growth in the Swedish economy is good. D public debt is very low, as we have seen in the past – the lowest since the 1970s. The labour market is doing very well: over 200 000 more people go to work today than when the government took office. It is clear that this is driving demand, not least in the housing market. It is also important to bear in mind that the proposal that we are discussing and that is being criticised is a considerably smaller measure than the already introduced amortisation requirement. This requirement, on which there was a broad consensus, covered a majority of the new mortgages. The stricter amortisation requirement concerns 15 per cent of new mortgage holders. To inflate this to be a risk to the Swedish economy in that situation, I do not think that the bourgeois parties have any basis for. A more sustainable price development in the housing market is beneficial for households, especially for young people who are going to buy their first home and thus save up for a cash deposit. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the enhanced amortisation requirement and macroprudential supervision must be seen as an insurance policy that will be useful in the next financial instability. Such insurance is not free. We can see that this proposal also has short-term effects, but these are extremely limited. Tackling the problems now and making long-term decisions in good economic time is significantly cheaper than closing your eyes, keeping your fingers crossed and waiting to see what a long and prolonged economic crisis could cost in the future. It is responsible to take measures that reduce risks in the Swedish economy.
i-1989b103345f6cba-825	Madam President, I would like When the proposal for a reinforced amortisation requirement was presented, a wide range of assessors went out in the debate and raised criticisms of three kinds. Firstly, it is a complicated proposal, which is difficult for the consumer to understand. Secondly, it is slow to move. At the very least, it contributes to the sluggish movement of the housing market as it concerns new loans and not old ones. This means that a person who bought a villa in the 60's, 70's or 80's has even less reason to sell it and move to a smaller apartment. Thirdly, it is an unfair proposal, because it clearly has a generational aspect in itself. The problem we have in the Swedish housing market with increased indebtedness the government now wants to send the bill for almost only the young generation. This is how the criticism sounded, and I think there is a lot in it. This is also the view of Minister for Housing Peter Eriksson. He has been very clear that this reduces the housing market, increases uncertainties, leads to lock-in effects and reduces mobility. He has raised a finger of caution in the debate. This, by the way, is very similar to what we have raised in the opposition. I understand Peter Eriksson, because he is responsible for the housing market and wants it to work as well as possible. Of course he listens very much to the criticism that has been put forward. What do you see, Per Bolund, that Peter Eriksson doesn't see? Why are you waving away his warning finger in such a clear way by voting in favour of the proposal? Why don't you take seriously the criticism he and many others have made?
i-1989b103345f6cba-832	Madam President, I would like The government makes collective decisions. We have taken a decision that the government as a whole supports. It also includes the Minister of Housing. There is therefore a broad consensus in the government that we must take decisions on measures now that reduce the risks for the Swedish economy in the long term. I do not think it is responsible towards the future to try to close our eyes and hope that some other proposal will come at some point later to deal with these risks. If one is particularly concerned about new entrants to the housing market, it is worth recalling the effects of a financial crisis on the housing market in particular. It has a dramatic effect on the desire to build new ones. It has a major impact on households' finances and thus their capacity to buy something. To be able to take measures that reduce risks and provide stability over time is also useful, not least for households with smaller wallets. I think that the criticism that has come should be taken seriously. Finansinspektionen has also done so in its analysis of the criticism that has emerged in the consultation rounds. If we start with the fact that it would be complicated, it can be said that banks already take into account both the value of the home and the income of the household. The assessment is therefore already available on the Swedish housing market. To claim that the requirement would be a hassle is a little difficult to understand in this context. With regard to inertia, experience can now be drawn from the previous amortisation requirement. This criticism was also brought forward at the time. We can now conclude that there is a very strong supply in the Swedish housing market. Clearly, we have not had such effects. Nor do I share the view that this would be unfair. I believe that many other measures that have been proposed would have had a much greater impact. This is a very mild proposal in this context, which is why I think the criticism is somewhat exaggerated. I would like to ask Mats Persson myself: what responsibility do you have in the opposition for a framework that we have developed jointly? You say no to the first proposal that comes out within this framework. What stability does this provide?
i-1989b103345f6cba-840	Madam President, I would like We live up to the framework and believe that politics should ultimately take responsibility. It is one of those responsibilities that you do not take when you do not make your own analysis of what the proposal would mean. You'll have to make the decision you've made. It is the voters' verdict that decides on election day if they think this was the right choice to make. I don't think so. In the current situation, when we need to take action on debt, it is important that these measures strike right and not just hit young people or future generations, as this proposal is currently doing. This is not something that only I have made up, but everyone agrees on this. Finansinspektionen itself says that this is not really what it wants to do, but is putting forward the proposal because the government is passive. I think you need to stop for a while and think about what the proposal means. This means that anyone who is going to move to Stockholm or who lives in Stockholm or Gothenburg and just goes out of school and is going to get a home today – if you have not queued since childhood – is forced to go to the secondary market, buy a black contract or still have an opportunity to buy a home. What you are doing now is very clearly closing the door, and it becomes clearer for those who want to move to Stockholm and get into the housing market by getting an apartment that you want to own yourself. I don't think this is taking responsibility for future generations. I do not think that this makes the labour market work better. And I don't think that makes the housing market work better. When the chambers of commerce in both Stockholm and Gothenburg clearly go out and say The government should consider whether anything can be done other than to make the housing market function worse.
i-1989b103345f6cba-846	Madam President, I would like I think that opposition should of course have the opportunity to vote according to its own head. On the other hand, one has a responsibility to be a responsible opposition. We should not paint horrors and not try to exaggerate the effects of political decisions taken. And they also have a great responsibility to actually listen to those whom we have jointly appointed as experts to handle risks in the Swedish economy. You take on a great responsibility when you do not listen to the expert authority – Finansinspektionen – that we have appointed. It has built up a competence with an analytical ability that can analyse risks in the Swedish economy. This expertise is then used to formulate proposals that are considered appropriate and appropriate for implementation. The Authority also notes that this has very limited effects on, for example, mobility and equity aspects between households. I am chairman of the Financial Policy Stability Council, where all three economic authorities – the Riksbank, the National Debt Office and the Financial Supervisory Authority – sit. Our three expert authorities give total support to the proposal, which they believe needs to be implemented. In this situation, abdicating from our responsibilities and saying that we should do something else some other time, somewhere else and in some other form is not taking into account the risks that actually coherent debaters and analysts say exist in the Swedish economy. Of course, I do not share Mats Persson's analysis that this closes the doors for the housing market. I would argue that what closes doors, especially for households that do not have the largest wallets, is to have continued rising housing price development by 10% per year, which means that households with small economic margins will have huge difficulties in the future to enter the housing market. Furthermore, we know that what creates the biggest problems is if we end up in financial instability and financial unrest. I therefore think it is responsible to take action, not to wait at this stage.
i-1989b103345f6cba-852	Madam President, I would like The Minister says that in the opposition we abdicate and are irresponsible for not saying yes to the proposal. It is quite far-reaching to claim that responsibility is being abdicated. We Christian Democrats have proposed that the amortisation requirements should instead be targeted at the banks' entire mortgage stock, as has been tried in some other countries. We think it is reasonable to review the system of interest differentials so that we can get more mortgages. Sweden stands out by having very banking preferential rules when it comes to bonded mortgages. Do something about this! This is a call that could be addressed to the government. Make sure to get rid of the amount discount that banks still offer to their customers! They say, "Debt more! If you borrow higher, you get lower interest. This drives lending very strongly. You could say that we should have an amortisation requirement. But if the banks' pricing constantly screams out, it will not hit the way we want it to. I would like to ask Minister Bolund a few questions. He says that coherent analyses provide support to say yes to the amortisation requirement. Wasn't the government at their own press meeting? There were a wide range of issues that were also based on analysis of the shortcomings of the proposal. Is it a wise policy to introduce a requirement that is only aimed at those who move or buy a home for the first time? Only those who are responsible for mobility in the housing market are affected by the proposal. Is it not better to use general tools aimed at the entire housing market so that these problems of labour market mobility and the housing market are not met? We need to improve, not impair, them.
i-1989b103345f6cba-858	Madam President, I would like There is some point in leaning on the best expertise available in our country in terms of the risks on the financial market and in economic policy. We have an authority, which a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament has designated as responsible for carrying out analyses and producing proposals. This has been done in this case, and it has been designed in a way that you think works well. The very high tone of the debate on the risks of the proposal should be put in an international perspective. We can look at many other countries in Europe. There are much stricter requirements for household debt in relation to their income. Many countries have different forms of debt-to-GDP ceilings, which put a total stop to a certain limit. That is not what we are proposing here. Rather, this is a debt-to-GDP brake, which means having to amortise a little more if you get over a certain debt. Housing seems to continue to be sold and purchased in those countries as well. So I do not think that there is any justification to paint it as that it should have a huge impact on the housing market in an international perspective. Analyses have been made to target the demands on the banks, as proposed by the Christian Democrats. The risk of that is that you're missing out on efficiency. This amortisation requirement is directed at the very households with the highest debts, which are taking the greatest risks. However, a general demand for banks is likely to be directed at completely other households or to have a much more unclear effect, as it goes through the banks that make their own assessment and that can influence the effects of it. The proposal for measures to bind mortgages is something that Finansinspektionen has the opportunity to bring forward through the mandate that we will take decisions on and that the government can then support or not. I do not agree that it would have as much effect on those who move, as Jakob Forssmed paints. In this way, I do not think it is such a big problem that Jakob Forssmed is trying to highlight.
i-1989b103345f6cba-863	Madam President, I would like I try to make an effort to discuss the proposal on the substance and do not think that I have a very high voice. I haven't talked about the government being irresponsible or abdicating its responsibilities. I have just said that this proposal is being made wrong. It is Minister Bolund who has used statements about irresponsibility and all sorts of things in the press. So I'd be happy to go back to the government. Unlike Per Bolund, I believe that this will have a negative impact on mobility. The Financial Supervisory Authority itself admits that. However, Finansinspektionen also notes that it uses the proposals that it has in its toolbox to address the increase in household indebtedness. It is incredibly clear to everyone, but possibly with the exception of the Government, that they would rather have other measures, namely a reduction in interest rates. It's hard for the government to gather around. This proposal has now been grouped together and it is said that there is broad consensus, because a joint decision has been taken. Perhaps Peter Eriksson has another vision. Maybe he had some objections. However, the major issue here is the reduction of interest. We need to get together around a stance. The government would have to do that. It would be beneficial for this situation. It would certainly be a more general instrument, which the Government itself rejects. He wants targeted action against the very people who move. However, I think it would be appropriate to try for a long time to scale down and switch towards income taxes, so that households are not affected as a collective, and to ensure that measures are put in place so that more young people can enter the housing market. What does the Government say about such a solution?
i-1989b103345f6cba-867	Madam President, I would like It is important to remember history, what we have done and what process we have had to come up with these proposals. We have jointly supported the assignment of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to be a macro supervisory authority. It was prepared under the previous government. We have also given Finansinspektionen tools to proceed with an amortisation requirement. And now we are discussing additional tools to carry out the macroprudential supervision that has been commissioned. In addition, the government has also invited broad housing policy discussions to discuss, for example, the issues that Jakob Forssmed is now raising, i.e. taxation issues, interest rebates and the like. It was the bourgeois parties who left those talks. They didn't want to move on. They were simply not prepared to shake hands with the government and come up with a common view of this. It would have been good if we could have continued the talks and come up with joint actions. But it is rather the one who leaves the talks, who does not want to go further with them, who is responsible for explaining why they were not prepared to work further towards that kind of common goal. Criticism that has come up and as this debate breathes a little bit is the criticism of timing. We make a proposal when there is a balancing of the housing market and when prices do not rise in the same way as in previous years. In such a situation, a change in the interest rebates, which would affect all mortgage holders, would have a greater impact on the housing market than if the very cautious measures proposed by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority were taken, to which the Government has given its consent. If you are worried about the timing, then interest reductions may not be the right thing to do. Two parties, especially the large opposition party, are not prepared to go further in discussing changes in interest rebates. That is why I do not think that there is enough evidence to carry out such a far-reaching reform as it is. This requires stability for Swedish households.
i-1989b103345f6cba-872	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Minister Bolund said in his speech and in some of what he has said in his lines. I feel quite proud of what the Left Party has done together with the government in relation to the housing market. As the Government considered, we see increased construction and the construction of rental apartments, largely thanks to the investment aid that we have agreed together. I find it somewhat difficult to understand the bourgeois criticism of the government's and to the large Left Party's housing policy when one can see the positive effects of it. I hope we will see construction throughout the country. I get a little worried when I hear Mats Persson's discussion about Stockholm and the big cities. He turns the housing market into a big city issue, when it is a matter for the whole country. We see this clearly with the housing policy being pursued, because in many places it is being built for the first time since the 80s and 90s. However, I would like to put a somewhat critical and sharp question to the Minister and pick up the question on which Mr Jakob was concerned. If I have understood correctly, the Green Party is in favour of a reduction in the interest rate deduction and the introduction of a cap instead of a cut-off point for the interest deduction. You're welcome to clarify what you think. I wonder what you, as a minister, are doing to convince the Social Democrats to review the interest rebate and to scale it down. It is clear that Jakob holds out a hand, along with his colleagues in the Liberals and the Center Party, and says that one could do something together. The Left Party is absolutely in favour of degressing interest rates. Another issue concerns young people. If we make it more difficult for young people to get housing, it is problematic, regardless of which part of the country it is. I wonder whether the Minister for the Financial Market intends to review the mortgage ceiling in order to provide better opportunities for young people to enter the housing market. Politician Birgit Friggebo got a house type named after him. Maybe you can get a roof named after you – Bolundhakt?
i-1989b103345f6cba-877	Madam President, I would like I, who is quite tall, need quite high ceilings. Perhaps that would be a reason to do something about it. Let us begin with that question. The mortgage ceiling is a measure that has been implemented by public authorities, through the measures that are under Finansinspektionen's responsibility. Finansinspektionen is responsible for monitoring developments. If you come up with proposals for changes there, the government will of course listen carefully to them. We have not heard such proposals for reforms so far, but the Authority is free to come up with such proposals. Otherwise, we generally believe that what is needed are measures to reduce household indebtedness in the long term. There, the mortgage ceiling has been an important measure to prevent households from going into excessive debt, with risks both for the economy and, not least, for individual households. It is also more difficult to cope with financial disruptions if you are heavily leveraged. As far as interest rebates are concerned, it is true that the Green Party, the party that I represent, has decided that we want to reduce interest rebates over time. We believe that there are opportunities to use the resources then released to carry out other reforms, which could strengthen households. We had the ambition to hold broad political talks on these issues. We invited the opposition and also the Left Party. Unfortunately, we note that there was no willingness to reach a joint decision on these issues. If you are going to implement a decision that has a great impact on many households, I think that there is good reason for Swedish voters to be able to expect that there should be such a broad consensus behind the proposal that you can trust that it will last over time. So we are not going to implement reforms now that will involve a proposal that will operate over several mandates with the risk that, depending on the next election result, it will be torn up and changed. It does not create the stable conditions that households need. But I am happy to return to that kind of conversation when there are conditions for it in the future.
i-1989b103345f6cba-885	Madam President, I would like If I understand the Minister for Financial Markets correctly, he says that it is Finansinspektionen's responsibility to look at any changes. But I wonder whether the Minister is not in a position to initiate this type of change. The Minister himself mentioned that he is President of the Stability Council. I think that as Minister of Finance in that role he can raise the issue of how the mortgage ceiling is since we introduced the 15% increase in it. Has it made things more difficult for young people? What analyses have you as authorities done to check how young people in the housing market have turned out? Is there anything we should still look at and check the effects of? I think it would be reasonable for a finance market minister in the situation we are in. Turning to the interest rebate, I understood that the Minister wanted to see a broad consensus and felt that this was necessary. The question then is: Does it require both Social Democrats and Moderates? Or would it suffice for you to succeed in convincing your own government partner, the Social Democrats, that it would be right to do something about the interest deduction? Sometimes it sounds like it's totally insurmountable to do something, and I mean it's not. Today there is a breakpoint at 100,000. This means that we still have people who have huge loan costs with the low interest rate we are at. The Swedish Rad io has discovered that there are 15 people who have deductions from the state of over SEK 1 million. We have to put an end to this somewhere. In its forecast, the Institute of Economics has said that the cost of the interest rebates for the state will double and thus increase from 30 billion today, which in principle corresponds to the expenditure on defence, to at least double. If we are going to do something in good times, as we were, and have insurance for the future, is it not now that we are going to do something about the interest rebates? The situation is excellent. The hand of Jakobs is stretched out, and there are also other parties on the bourgeois side who want to do this. I do not understand why the government does not take its hand and say: Let's do something. We can start with the roof, and then we can take the de-escalation in the next step.
i-1989b103345f6cba-889	Madam President, I would like We have come quite far away from the basic issue that we are discussing here, that is, decisions on the framework that Finansinspektionen should have and the legal tools that they should have to be able to proceed with proposals. If we try to return something to this perspective also in this debate, it is this system that we have agreed on very broadly in Swedish politics: It is the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority that is responsible for analysing developments in the Swedish economy, to focus on risks, to find the risks that exist and to come up with relevant measures to meet these risks. In doing so, you should also make an assessment of the effects on Swedish politics and also on, for example, the housing market. I think that Finansinspektionen has done this in its work, and I am full of confidence that it will continue to do so. This also applies, for example, to measures that have been introduced, such as the mortgage ceiling. I therefore think it is better in this situation to wait and hear the Authority's analysis than to run ahead and make short-term political assessments that may not always be as well anchored as they would have to be. We don't have all the facts on the table. As far as the interest rebates are concerned, we can see that since the Green Party began to push the issue and raised it on the political stage, several parties have joined the table gradually. I think this is a positive development, because it means that there is now an opportunity to hold this kind of discussion in the long term. However, we note that the two major parties are not ready to come up with concrete proposals at this stage. It tells me that we must continue to pursue public opinion on this issue and continue to discuss the importance of taking further action. However, I also think it is important to take one step at a time. Now we make an important decision with the approval of the Government to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to move forward with a stricter amortisation requirement. Let us now wait and see what effects it will have in dealing with household indebtedness before further action is taken. It also provides the peace and quiet that households need in order to plan long-term.
i-1989b103345f6cba-894	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is very difficult to conduct some form of rational tax talks with a government that has pushed up the highest marginal taxes of 62 – 63%, against all the expertise and all the international assessors. There is no substance in a conversation with such a government, as has been shown. It may well be, Madam President, that the person who runs the negotiations is also the one who drives people out of them. There is a great deal of concern in Sweden, among Swedish households and among Swedish companies, that we have a government that, according to no expert authority, can handle public financial savings in accordance with the fiscal framework. There is a concern that we have negative interest rates in the boom and the long-term consequences. The increased imbalances that have been built up in the economy during this government do not bode well for the future. A sharp rush on the housing market, for example, has turned to something that seems to be a very near and severe decline. Madam President, I would like When we take this decision today, it is relevant to do understand what it is all about. Per Bolund himself was into it earlier, but without any kind of concreteness. What measures does the Minister for the Financial Market see that this mandate could lead to, and how does the Minister for the Financial Market value such measures?
i-1989b103345f6cba-897	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it is difficult to have conversations with Niklas Wykman because he likes to use upper words and portrays the opponent as irresponsible and similar. I do not think there is any justification for any of the assessments that Niklas Wykman makes use of. I am also somewhat surprised that Niklas Wykman says that there is no possibility or substance to hold talks on housing policy, for example. Then maybe Niklas Wykman should have a conversation with her own economic- political spokesperson Elisabeth Svantesson, who seems to have a different view on the matter and seems to think that there is a point in also continuing to talk. Perhaps the Moderates should try to coordinate a little internally before going out with this kind of judgment. I think it is important that we give a broad mandate to Finansinspektionen, that is to say that it is Finansinspektionen that has the expertise and has ensured that it has a well-functioning analytical ability. Finansinspektionen has the tentacles out in the economic system and the ability to analyse whether there are imbalances and risks that need to be managed. It is also clear in the framework that we have jointly agreed that it is the inspection that will produce proposals for action and then put them on the government table for the government to give its consent to or not. That's how the system is designed. At this point, I choose not to raise individual proposals that may or may not come up in the future. I think it is better for our expert authority to carry out the analysis and to come up with concrete proposals – out of respect for the framework that we have come up with jointly. I would like to conclude by saying that I think there are two parties in the debate that stand out. It is both the Swedish Democrats, who say no to the whole proposal, which I think is irresponsible, and the Moderates, who say no to the increased amortisation requirement without coming up with any alternatives. You don't suggest anything at the other end. I think this is a policy that is about just closing our eyes and keeping our ears open and not wanting to see the risks in the Swedish economy. I would like to have Niklas Wykman's comment on that.
i-1989b103345f6cba-902	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Financial Market speaks of uppers, but immediately turns to cheap attacks to close your eyes and hold to your ears and other things that are only qualified nonsense. Bad factual knowledge can sometimes be replaced by sharp rhetoric, but not always, especially when you are a responsible minister. This doesn't make any sense. We have the greatest respect for the joint decision that has been taken, namely that it is the government that should take this decision. If the Minister for Financial Markets wants a different order, in which the Riksdag makes the decision, the Minister for Financial Markets may return with such a proposal. Minister of Finance Per Bolund accused me of taking the lead. But the rejection of how public finances are managed has not been done by me but by the National Audit Office, the Council for Fiscal Policy and the Institute for Economic Development. The use of such words by a responsible minister against our expert authorities is astounding. Marginal taxes have pushed up more than 60 percent in violation of all international and national expertise advice. It will be a party to discuss other tax increases when there is no room at all for wanting to make rational tax decisions. That concludes the discussion. It concerned a negotiation that has already taken place, not negotiations that could possibly take place. When one chooses to hear wrong consciously time and again in debate after debate, it is not one who wins, but democracy who loses. I have a question – not that Per Bolund usually answers them, but still: Is there no concern in the government about the long-term perspective of what is happening now? Nevertheless, this is worth reflecting on. These are very high marginal taxes on labour income. It is also very low interest rates, but on loans that very few can take. How does the government view the possible long-term distribution risks with this?
i-1989b103345f6cba-907	Madam President, I would like Let me start by answering the last question clearly. It is clear that in a low interest rate economy there are risks of building up different types of asset bubbles. These are risks that we need to deal with, and that is why it is so incredibly important that we give the authorities the tools they need. That is also what this decision is about. Then, of course, there are also distributional effects to be taken into account. There, the government that is now sitting has been very active and has ensured that we can reduce the economic gaps in the Swedish economy, unlike the previous government, which did more to increase the gaps. I can also say that we have the lowest public debt in over 40 years. We have very good control over the public economy. There have been surpluses in public finances each year during this term of office, unlike the previous term of office, when there were deficits each year. When it comes to what has led us to the situation we are in now, with a housing market that has almost shrunk with very high price increases, many assessors point to decisions taken under the previous government. These included reforms with lower taxation on housing and, at the same time, much higher taxation on migration, which many believe has fueled price developments in the housing market and thus also debt. I think there may be some reasons for Niklas Wykman to be somewhat self-critical even when he looks in the rear-view mirror. I think it is good that we are now taking steps together to increase stability in the Swedish economy. I am pleased that we have a broad consensus that this framework will now come into place. But I think we should also take responsibility and see that action may need to be taken in the short term. It has a responsibility to counter the gaps and economic risks that arise. There I still think that the Moderates stand out on the bourgeois side. You say no to the proposal that Finansinspektionen's experts have made but do not have any other proposals that could reduce risks in the Swedish economy. You're in a special position. You do not think that anything really should be done to deal with the risks. I don't think that's responsible.
i-1989b103345f6cba-912	Madam President, I would like In a few places in the world, one can really match the medical results that we have the opportunity to get part of a welfare system that is also jointly funded and that can be shared by everyone according to our needs. However, while it is worth always reminding ourselves of this, there are many areas where health care, social care and disability and substance abuse policies are tackled with great challenges and shortcomings, areas where we should actually be able to take much better account of the conditions we have. As the Christian Democratic budgetary option has already fallen, we are not taking part in the decision on the allocation of funds to the area of responsibility. If, however, the Christian Democrats' budget had been heard, we would have had 8.7 billion more in Category 9. It would have meant more resources to the core of welfare, what actually plays the greatest role in the public commitment. There is a considerable difference, Madam President. Nevertheless, we believe that it is not only more resources that are the big difference between what the government has put forward in its budget and what the Christian Democrats are proposing. There are no fewer than 53 different forms of motion. There are a large number of proposals each aimed at restoring the promise of welfare. We must break the trend that is making care queues grow again. We must increase the security of those who, after a long life, become dependent on the support of others. We must be there for those who find it difficult to find joy in living. And we must ensure the possibility of living a life like any other for everyone, regardless of our functional variations. For those who long to learn of visions and concrete proposals on how to reform health care in order to meet both the needs we have today and, not least, the needs we face tomorrow, I warmly recommend reading the entire section of the Christian Democrats' budget motion on Category 9. However, I would like to highlight some of our priorities in the debate. In order to continue the development of good medical progress, which can improve the quality of life and make us cure more diseases and add more healthy years to our lives, and in order to make better use of citizens' resources, the whole functioning of care needs to be changed. More care needs to be available close to the patient through more support for self-care and a primary care that enjoys confidence that it can meet large parts of the care needs. It can free up resources for the advanced and specialized care that some need – it is quite rarely needed, but then it is absolutely crucial. But such a change is not just about giving more resources to primary care. Economic investment in primary care must be accompanied by reforms that increase accessibility and ensure that more active preventive work is carried out. A key to this is a working environment that makes employees able to and want to stay, so that we reach the continuity needed to maintain confidence in primary care. The removal, as the government does, of incentives that have worked and, instead, without demands for results, make investments that we actually know do not work, leads to a loss of confidence in health care. We can also see that this leads to a reduction in gaps. Who you are matters. It plays an increasingly important role in the provision of care. It's even the chance to survive depends on where you live. The length of your education will affect your chances of getting the best treatment. If we are to overcome this and ensure that the gaps are reduced instead of increasing, it is not good enough to make bets that sound good or bets that have the right motives, but we have to make bets that work. Madam President, I would like Let me take an example. Survival of breast cancer depends on your educational background, your socio-economic status and, above all, how early your breast cancer is detected. That's why we have screening programs and mammography. We know that women with low levels of education and socio-economic status follow the screening programme to a lesser extent. In the government budget, we have now once again seen efforts in the 100 million class to remove the fee for screening with mammography and the news here with cell sampling. It's a bet that sounds good. It goes without saying that, for economic reasons, no one should have to refrain from screening in order to detect a cancer. But we know it doesn't work. The latest example is from Sörmland. For two years there has been free screening for mammography and it is clear that there is no difference. This does not cause more people in those groups who are at increased risk of dying because cancer is not detected in time for screening. The hundreds of millions invested are right. We want to bet them, too. But it's not right when you bet them wrong. Then it's a waste. Madam President, I would like We have a political responsibility to protect the conditions necessary for more businesses to be even better regardless of the type of provider that provides care. Therefore, the Christian Democrats want to invest in improving the conditions for non-profit actors as well. We protect all actors in healthcare. That is why it is important that there is another announcement, supported by the majority of the committee, that the government should make the same demands on public and private operators. Madam President, I would like We also want to spend 3 billion more than the government on the elderly. I can list some of our efforts: a guarantee of dignity, a guarantee of retirement homes, a care lift, a meal lift, a national dementia plan, a repatriation team, a training lift for managers in the care of the elderly, a dementia centre and a guarantee of staff to ensure that those who depend on home care do not have to meet so many different people. One of the most important areas for us as responsible politicians is about young people. I would say that is an area in which the betrayal of society is perhaps the greatest. I think that all of us in this House would like us to be able to make a clear promise that never again will a young person in the care of society have to take his own life. Never again will a young child, a child who has not even become a teenager, be placed in a form of care that is not even capable of providing the support that the child needs. Never again will a child in community care be placed in a place where it is subjected to the same type of abuse that we were supposed to protect the child from. I'm afraid to make that promise here today. I wish I could. But our shortcomings in this area are too great today for me to dare make that promise today. We have many efforts in our budget to remedy the shortcomings we are seeing today. We want to make a substantial effort on child and youth psychiatry, on the transition to adult psychiatry, on strengthening children's and young people's health and on a national crisis social emergency services to support municipalities where the task is too difficult for some municipalities. We want to provide better conditions for the social services not to make placements that lead to break-up and to ensure sufficient competence of the processing assistants on the SIS. Not least, we want to make efforts to strengthen parents. Being a parent is a tough task, and it is an incredibly important task. What we can promise is that we Christian Democrats will never stop fighting for every child to grow up in safety. Madam President, I would like I have exceeded my speaking time, I realise. I will not be able to tell you about all the Christian Democrats' proposals. Nevertheless, I would like to conclude by reminding the government parties in particular that it is here in Parliament that we have the responsibility and the opportunity to change laws. It's needed to restore the LSS.
i-1989b103345f6cba-933	Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, it is important that Sweden should stick together and that we should future-proof the common construction of society. That is how we will create hope, security and faith in the future. For three years the Social Democratic Government has managed to turn a deficit into surplus. We are on a strong economic basis. We are amortising the public debt, and we are investing in our community-building community. We know that equality and economic development belong together. Sweden therefore needs a society that is fair, with reforms that reduce the gaps and create more opportunities for everyone to contribute. That's how we build society. We want to develop the Swedish model, not phase it out. This is evident not least in the initiatives proposed by the government regarding our Category 9, Health, Health and Social Care. It is characterized by very great ambitions to strong well-being. In the healthcare sector alone, a record and unique investment is being made that has never been made before, of SEK 5 1⁄2 billion in 2018. A large and important part of this is invested in overcoming the queues in healthcare. We know that access to healthcare is very important not least for those who are waiting to get to the healthcare system and get their treatment, but also for us to maintain trust and confidence in the healthcare system. In the government budget, 1 billion is invested in what we call a patient billion that will help us get faster care for patients. It is about shortening queues to primary care and being able to coordinate the different interventions in care. We are talking about a patient billion that will create better accessibility in primary care. It should also be possible to invest in patient contracts between healthcare and patients in order to strengthen the position of patients, and better co-ordination between different care interventions. The Government also invests SEK 2 billion in health care personnel in addition to what has already been invested. These funds will be used to improve the human resources situation and develop health care activities. It is about improving employment conditions, skills development, increased staffing and changing working methods. In maternity care, the Government is investing 1 billion with the aim of strengthening staff density and improving the working environment in maternity care and neonatal care. The money can also be used for child health care to reinforce it. Cancer care is an important area of health care. There, the government attaches great importance to achieving an equal and accessible care of high quality. SEK 2 billion will be invested here in 2015 – 2018. Added to this are the agreements made between the state and Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. The agreements are based on the agreed cancer strategy, which has a clear focus on shortening waiting times and improving the quality of cancer care. Like the previous speaker, we and the government believe that healthcare also needs to be changed in the long term in its structures. These government initiatives and structural changes include the introduction of a new decision-making process for the implementation of national highly specialised care – creating the conditions for the development and change that healthcare needs in order to meet future demands for a high-quality, equal health care. At the same time, a transfer from the hospitals to the more patient-related care needs to take place. The Government will therefore propose a new provision in the Health Act for county councils to organise health care as close to the population as possible. Furthermore, in the same proposal, the government proposes to strengthen the guarantee of primary care. The new proposal tightens the period for a medical assessment from seven days to three days. This assessment can also be made of other professions in primary care. That is how resources are released, of course, and patients are given a faster assessment. Psychiatry needs more bets. Mental ill health is, as you know, one of the great scourges of our time. There is extensive reinforcement in psychiatric care for children. It is part of the multi-annual initiative. Children's and young people's psychiatry is strengthened by SEK 100 million. Social care for children and young people is also being strengthened. The situation in social services is still strained– it has been for a long time. The Government proposes that SEK 250 million be allocated to this area. The National Board of Institutional Affairs also needs a new grant. They will receive an appropriation of SEK 40 million, as proposed. Investments in dental care are made through a double dental allowance. It is an important basic support and incentive for regular visits to dental care. The free dental care for young adults is gradually being expanded. With regard to disability policy, the Government proposes that the flat-rate amount for assistance compensation be listed by 11⁄2 percent. It is in order to be able to sign good collective agreements and create good conditions for the personal assistants and therefore also a better quality for the users. The Government has also announced a package of measures to ensure, among other things, that assistance is provided for waiting and preparedness and that the provision on two-year review is temporarily removed. The purpose of the government's measures is to safeguard the fundamental objectives of the assistance reform. From 2018, the Government will introduce a grant of SEK 350 million to support the municipalities in their efforts to stimulate day-to-day operations. It's the so-called habilitation allowance. It may be added that the ongoing LSS investigation has received an additional directive to investigate whether a greater uniformity can be created in the design of the habilitation compensation within the municipalities. With regard to social services, it is proposed that SEK 250 million be allocated annually to enable municipalities to offer free activities during school holidays for children and young people. It is an important initiative for children in vulnerable areas to have meaningful and good leisure time. This comes in addition to the already existing summer holiday initiative of SEK 200 million per year. The Government also intends to provide support of SEK 300 million to enable municipalities to organise free swimming school annually. As far as care for the elderly is concerned, the Government's earlier efforts to increase staffing and thus the safety and quality of elderly care continue in 2018. It is also important to point out that the government will present a proposal for a simplified decision-making in the home service, a so-called simplified assistance procedure. It is simply a matter of making it easier for older people to get help at home and get it sooner. It may therefore be possible to postpone heavier efforts. Against our policy of future-proofing welfare are the opposition's proposals on tax cuts, with major cuts in our common welfare as a result. That policy is clearly reflected in the priorities of the bourgeois parties in our area of expenditure. They say no to urgent efforts of 5 1⁄2 billion to restore a cue billion. We know it worked at first. But at the end we could see that it had really played its part. We've seen this. We want to get to the bottom of the problems that we see in health care, which are about staff shortages and skills provision. This is why the government is investing billions in providing health care. In fact, we see a divided bourgeois opposition. The Christian Democrats want to scrap most of the general subsidies and only make special-destined efforts, while the Center Party, for example, opposes the most specialised state subsidies in order to partially compensate municipalities and county councils with general grants. One might ask: How is this going to work out? I think there will be difficulties with that. Madam President, I would like Last Saturday Anna Dahlberg asked in a leading chronicle in Expressen if the Alliance is going to take a run bill after the election. The question is justified. One cannot seriously criticise all the shortcomings that exist in welfare, propose some petty needle money as financing and also make tax cuts in the multi-billionaire class, and at the same time claim that one can deal with all the problems that exist in health care, LSS and care for the elderly. Madam President, I would like I have exceeded my speaking time by a few minutes. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report on paragraph 1 and to endorse our reservation on paragraph 2 on the obligation to permit.
i-1989b103345f6cba-957	Madam President, I would like There are many well-balanced descriptions of the needs of healthcare in the government budget. There are also a lot of investments in the form of various billions here and there. However, it is not enough to speak well and to have good ambitions, because the effect of government policy is actually that confidence in health care is falling and queues are growing. We can look at the queues for a first visit. We can look at the lines of operations and measures. I can give you a very concrete example. We hear about the investments in children's and young people's psychiatry. But this is the effect of a few years with the current government: before it was 13, 14 or 15 county councils – it depends on the year you look at – who managed to offer a first visit within a month to the children and young people who felt so bad that they were deemed to have a need to come to child and youth psychiatry. Now it has fallen – only one county council can pass that level. My question to Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, who represents the government because the Minister for Health is not here, is: In what way has your way of allocating resources actually had the effects that you have wanted?
i-1989b103345f6cba-960	Madam President, I would like I agree with Emma Henriksson that long waiting times in healthcare are troubling. As I said in my speech, this is not least a loss of confidence in health care. I do not think, as the Alliance seems to think, that one million dollars is enough and that the county councils that actually have the best conditions get more resources. This is an ongoing crisis. It has been going on for many decades, I would say. It is about the structures of health care. Instead, we need to ensure that we have a proper supply of skills, that we are changing the structures so that we can face this early and that we are working on preventive measures so that our young people and children do not grow up with these mental problems. It's at school and in primary care we're going to face this. That's where we need to bet money, and that's what the government does. We are putting forward long-term proposals to change the structures of health care. We're taking the first steps now. We invest 2 billion in human resources, which can be used under trust and trust on our part to change ways of working and to change the structures. We'll bet a patient billion. It should be used to shorten waiting times for primary care, where one should be able to face a large part of these problems and many of these young people. It should also be possible to sign patient contracts with patients, so that patients themselves have influence over this. That's how we're going to change care, and that's how we're going to face the flaws in healthcare.
i-1989b103345f6cba-967	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, and as it says in the Christian Democrats' budget, we are fully aware that it is not just about money. It is mainly about how the resources we invest are used. There we have a major fundamental problem in Swedish healthcare – it is not at all adapted to meet the needs we have today and the needs we face tomorrow. We need a healthcare structure where we put patients in focus in a completely different way and where we strengthen patients and give them more power to participate in their care. We also need to reorganise Swedish healthcare in an appropriate way. Where in the country you live should not play any role in what care you have access to or what chance you have to survive at all. But this was not my question to Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson. My question was: in what way has what you are doing produced results? Now you have had a number of years. You are responsible for the development that we see in Swedish healthcare today. What is happening now is that the queues are growing– they have not only stopped decreasing, but they are growing. So the effect is the opposite of what you say you want to achieve. Give a single example where your bets have paid off! I have given examples where they have not produced results. The effort to remove the fee for gynecological cell sampling amounts to 140 million, I think. It is of the same magnitude as our effort to remove the fee for mammography. The effort did not produce results. We knew that it would not produce results, for it had already been tried. It is not enough to bet money, because if you bet them wrong it is waste of resources. Give an example where your bet has actually led to better results!
i-1989b103345f6cba-975	Madam President, I would like These are big words to come from a person whose representative was in charge of this area in the previous government. Eight years they had to try to turn this ship around. As I said earlier, this is a long-term structural problem in healthcare. Are we gonna fix this in three and a half years? We have taken the first steps, and we will continue. We are looking, as I said, at the basic problems of health care. It's not about whips or carrots. It is not something you can fix with a queue billion, it is about more deep structures. We've taken the first steps. There will now be proposals – there will be one on Parliament's table, and there will be more. We also fund the whole thing. I have to put a counter-question to Emma Henriksson. She talks about how to overcome the shortcomings, problems and challenges in healthcare. I would like to know what she herself proposes, except for a cue billion, who had played out her role when it existed. We are talking about a state permit granting which, in the long run, is about wanting more private alternatives in healthcare. Tax cuts of 33.6 billion are proposed. What is the role model for alliance-led healthcare – Stockholm County Council? I don't think I have to say any more.
i-1989b103345f6cba-980	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that, because our budget option has fallen, we will not be taking part in that decision. However, I would like to express my support for the announcement that we want to make the same requirement for the authorisation of all social services operators and expect the government to come back with proposals on this as a matter of urgency. Madam President, I would like It is tremendously gratifying that we are in a country where we have one of the world's healthiest populations and, in addition, health care in the top international medical class. That is something we should be happy about and continue to develop. At the same time, there are challenges, problems and opportunities that are both large and extensive in healthcare and care. Some of the challenges I would like to mention here today, starting with the one I personally am absolutely most concerned about, namely: The growing care queues, which have doubled in the last three years a flight of personnel from care, which means that the provision of skills and personnel is under threat in health care and care for the elderly and in social services; 中 lack of specialist nurses, general practitioners, psychiatrists and pathologists, among other things
i-1989b103345f6cba-987	中 that patient safety is threatened at times
i-1989b103345f6cba-989	中 that highly specialised care is not sufficiently concentrated, resulting in lower quality and lower patient safety The fact that our children and young people are deteriorating while psychiatry is on their knees – not least children – and youth psychiatry, BUP The challenges of digitalisation but also great opportunities 中 care companies that live under the threat of a profit cap and a profit ban. And this was just the short list of challenges. There are infinitely more. Madam President, I would like The patient and patient safety should always be given priority. Always. This will guide our priorities and the reforms to be implemented. But one problem stands out in front of everyone else and must be resolved now. It grows week by week, month by month, year by year. It's the care queues. Care queues have doubled in just three years. Even in low numbers, more than 100 000 people are currently in healthcare queues. Sweden, together with Poland and Ireland, has Europe's longest waiting time in healthcare. In addition, we have major regional differences, and they are growing. According to the latest follow-up I have seen of the waiting times, 94% of patients in Moderate-led Halland have their surgery performed within promised time. In red Västerbotten and Västernorrland, only more than half of the patients have their surgery completed under this care guarantee. In total, almost one in three patients will not have their surgery performed within a reasonable time. That is totally unacceptable. However, we Moderates are hopeful that this can be reversed. We in the Alliance have shown before that we can do it, and we will do it again. Madam President, I would like The situation and development of child and youth psychiatry, BUP, is, if possible, even worse. Queues and waiting times are growing. A single county council, the one in Kalmar, lives up to the promised health guarantee of a first assessment within 30 days regarding BUP. In another county council, Uppsala, only 14 percent of children and young people receive the support promised, i.e. one out of seven children. That is totally unacceptable. Gotland and Stockholm manage to ensure that more than nine out of ten children receive the support they need within promised time. But in Västerbotten and Dalarna, it is again low counting, fewer than every third child who receives support from BUP in time. This isn't good enough. It must be reversed, and it must be reversed now. The patients shouldn't be in the waiting room. They should receive treatment at the right time, in the right place and of high quality, whether it is a matter of surgery or help through BUP. Madam President, I would like The challenges and opportunities are great. It is therefore sad to note that this term of office is largely four years lost for Swedish health care. We heard here before the vote that the queue billion has played its part. These are rather big and frantic words from a government that in just three and a half years has managed to double the queue times, which in 2006 were extremely long but which we managed to halve in our years. So the embodiment was effective in many ways, and in the proposal we are now presenting we have analysed it and improved it further to meet the needs that we saw it not fully met. The slowness of the government during this term of office is remarkable. The government has not put forward a proposal to shorten patients' waiting times. Instead, with its policy in three years, it has doubled the care queues, including the conscious decision to abolish the working queue billions. Nor has the government put forward any proposal to increase the availability and quality of the near care. The government has simply not been able to come up with any important, crucial, long-term structural reforms regarding health care. Instead, the government has chosen to seek to abolish the law on free choice of care in primary care and failed. The government has tried to create large regions and failed. The government has tried to limit the possibility of alternative forms of operation of university hospitals and failed. The government has tried to make the use of private health insurance more difficult and failed. Now the government intends to try to impose profit caps on healthcare and care. With this, too, we shall ensure that it fails. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have a clear national health agenda. Our main goal is to rapidly halve the care queues and then reduce them to a minimum. All patients who so desire should have a permanent care contact, starting with the close care – a care that needs to be expanded and made more accessible. Elderly multisickness and all others with chronic diseases, such as those with chronic cancer, should have access to a more comprehensive and close care. Future healthcare policies focus on quality and results. The patient and patient safety – I repeat – should always be put first. Madam President, I would like We intend to do the following. Firstly, we intend to shorten the waiting time of patients by re-establishing a developed queue billion. We invest SEK 3 billion per year in a more comprehensive, performance-linked and reinforced queue billion. Unlike previous designs, it should include, for example, X-rays, psychiatry and laboratory tests. This triple queue billion will help to rapidly halve the care queues. Secondly, we want to develop close care with fixed care contact – a primary care reform. We invest 1 billion a year in order to expand the close care, with primary care as a base. This also means, in the short term, that resources need to be moved from hospitals to close care. The aim of strengthening the overall close care and its quality is to make it the natural first choice for the vast majority of patients. Thirdly, we want to strengthen and secure safe delivery. Being a parent and starting a family should be a happy and positive part of life. No one should have to feel insecure before the meeting in maternity care or maternity care. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. Childbirth care has become worse – more new births have to be re-inscribed urgently, and the proportion of birth injuries is increasing. Therefore, we invest SEK 1 billion in order to strengthen the overall care chain of maternal care, maternity care and aftercare. In addition, we – I repeat just some of our proposals – want to strengthen patient safety, concentrate highly specialised care and increase freedom of choice in inpatient care. We want to prioritise the care chain for the most ill elderly. We want to stimulate and coordinate digitalisation in healthcare and implement initiatives with a focus on quality and results. We are therefore investing EUR 100 million per year in order to strengthen the quality of care by introducing national requirements and quality contracts. In addition, we add SEK 80 million per year to strengthen supervision and follow-up at IVO. We need freedom of choice in healthcare and care, but this requires that we have structured follow-up and high quality requirements – all in order to strengthen the patient and patient safety. Therefore, we Moderates are particularly pleased that in today's report we have an announcement that demands for permits in all the activities of social services should apply to all operators. Madam President, I would like Finally, Sweden needs a new government. We need a government that takes the challenges of healthcare seriously and has thought-out reforms that can solve, among other things, the growing care queues. We need a government that sees the needs of the most ill elderly people for more coordinated care with permanent care contact. We need a government that does not accept that more than one in four children does not receive the support they need in time from child and youth psychiatry. It is time to put patients first in the care. They're not supposed to be in the waiting room. Let's take care of ourselves. We want to have the opportunity to do something about them – preferably right now, but we promise to deal with them at the latest after the elections next year.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1021	Madam President, I would like Camilla Waltersson Grönvall devotes a large part of her speech to the care queues and the lack of accessibility. We agree there – it's a big worry and a big challenge that we need to face in every way possible. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall also lists a number of county councils where you have problems with growing care queues, but we could all note that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's own county council did not include in that description. It is therefore the large Västra Götaland region, which does not take a particularly honourable place when it comes to tackling healthcare queues and improving accessibility. What was positive, however, in Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's post was that she linked the growing care queues with brain drain and inadequate structures in health care. That is precisely the analysis that the government and we are doing. I think it is interesting; perhaps we could move forward with constructive, joint efforts to meet the challenges of health care. My thinking, however, is about how this should be done, because I didn't really hear how the Moderates think this should be turned around, but just that it should be turned immediately. In particular, I wonder, given that the draft budget contains EUR 11⁄2 billion less in appropriations for expenditure. In addition, tax cuts of 32.5 billion are proposed. In addition, if we are to govern with other alliance parties, the proposal for tax reductions will be far more than 32.5 billion. So how are you supposed to handle that equation?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1025	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the Social Democrats and AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson are studying the moderate budget option. In fact, they should do that more often. But it becomes so stupid when you don't read correctly – or have obscure, short-term political purposes, like discrediting your political opponents. The truth is that, as you can see if you read before: The Moderates invest more resources in their budget option on health care than the Social Democrats do. We spend 595 million more than the government in investing in health care. In addition, we add 75 million more to the National Board of Health and Welfare for the expansion of highly specialised care and 80 million more than the Government to the Inspection of Health and Social Care in order to strengthen supervision and monitoring of healthcare. What concerns me is that the number of people in care queues has increased so drastically during the Red-Green Government. It also continues to increase. It is four lost years for Swedish health care when we look at how many people are suffering in the care queues today. Then I find it remarkable that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is not able to respond to a greater extent to what has actually been done to meet this. It has been paralysed in the face of a situation that has only escalated. People are suffering, and they are getting worse. There's a lot of insecurity. Why is nothing happening, and why is the situation getting worse? Wasn't it a big mistake to abolish the alliance government's cue billions? I would like to follow my colleague Emma Henriksson and ask: Can we get a single concrete example of how the government has managed to meet the problems surrounding our healthcare queues?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1029	Madam President, I would like If Camilla Waltersson Grönvall studied the effects of the queue billions a little closer, she would see exactly what we have seen, namely that the effect of it waned out at the end of the last parliamentary term. The impact of the initial incentive contribution was gradually waning. It was the same in the 90s when we had a health guarantee. It depends, as we all understand if we think for a moment, on the fact that it is the structures of care that we need to do. It is a fundamental problem that leads to growing care queues despite the incentives we are trying to take. This government is therefore doing what the previous government avoided doing, namely taking a crack at this and looking at what the basic problem is. One problem, of course, is the supply of skills – exactly what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall began her speech by saying. That's why the government is allocating a billion dollars. It has turned the queue billion into a professional billion that can actually be used to change ways of working, streamline, hire and prevent the brain drain. This year's proposal, i.e. in the 2018 budget, also proposes an additional SEK 2 billion precisely in order to be able to start changing health care structures – hiring, developing working methods and so on. That's taking the problems seriously. It's trying to turn the ship around. Furthermore, proposals are being put forward; it must surely have been brought to the attention of Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. Now there is a proposal with the first step to change the basic structures of care – what is based on Anna Nergårdh's investigation of good and close care.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1033	Madam President, I would like These are the facts: When the alliance government took over in 2006, Sweden had difficult, and I stress difficult, problems with growing care queues. These care queues were halved during our reign with the help of queue billions. The Red-Green Government abolished this reform. The consequences of this are now clear: Queues are still growing, and it is sick people who are paying the price for this. Our patients shouldn't have to sit in the waiting room. They're going to get medical attention, and they're going to get it in time. They should not be passed around waiting for both assessment and surgery. It certainly does not have equal care in Sweden of the Social Democrats, but there are large differences between the county councils and the regions of the country. What is clear, however, is that it is in the moderate-led county councils and regions that much more work is done on these issues. It works more successfully to put patients at the centre and to shorten their waiting. The statistics in the red, social-democratically controlled county councils and regions are quite bleak. It speaks clearly. I have in my hand an account of what the waiting times look like. It is only to be noted that the moderate-led regions are at the top, while at the bottom we find a multitude of the red, social-democraticly-led, county councils. Besides, we don't know what it looks like-- are we gonna listen to Shekarabi or Strandhäll? I would like to highlight the private health care providers. I am well aware that Anna-Lena Sörenson is not in a position to answer this question today, but we will ask it again. For us, it is important that the care queues should be removed and that people should receive care on time. We have done it before, and we will do it again after September next year.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1038	Madam President, I would like In the 2014 election campaign, Stefan Löfven explained that something is breaking in Sweden. More than three years have passed since then, and the negative development in several welfare areas, including health care, continues. Health care is an area that the Swedish people have a high priority. You are willing to pay a fairly high tax as long as you know that you receive a high-quality healthcare available. Traditionally, Swedish healthcare has been an example to the outside world. Unfortunately, however, because of the government's inability to deal with the chronically long care queues, this is not the case anymore. We have Europe's longest healthcare queues, as we have heard here before. There are 50,000 patients who have waited longer than v ad allowed under the Health Care Act. It is therefore one in three patients in the surgical queue who have waited longer than the care guarantee allows. This, of course, means great human suffering for patients, but also for their relatives. It has even gone so far that cancer patients die in the care queues. And it is not just I who say it, it is both the profession and the patient organisations. I have brought here a debate article from Palema. It says: People with cancer die because they have to wait. Think yourself into the situation: You sit a summer's day with your doctor because you have had diffuse symptoms of discomfort for a long time. Some studies have been carried out, and the doctor says: "We have come to the conclusion that you have had cancer of the pancreas, and the only chance of cure is surgery. But unfortunately, we can't operate on you until the end of August. What would you think and feel? How will you and your loved ones feel this summer? This is the reality of many patients around our country. We are in a situation in Swedish health care today where the health care crisis is also hitting the youngest. At the country's two largest childhood cancer centers, there is a lack of time, staff and care places. This means that operations and treatments are cancelled. Last summer, 28 pediatricians went out warning of a breakdown in paediatric care. They even suggested setting up an accident commission. They say that surgery and examinations are cancelled because of a lack of care places, about children being cared for in study rooms, sometimes for several days, while waiting for a vacancy in the department. I can only agree with the conclusion of children's doctors: this is a total health accident. It is, of course, totally unacceptable and directly inhumane by a country that we should call a welfare country. Madam President, I would like A couple of weeks ago we had the Agency for Health and Care Analysis visiting us in the Social Affairs Committee. The agency has compared care in Sweden with care in ten comparable countries. The result is disappointing. Only one third of Swedes believe that healthcare is working well in Sweden today. That is a decrease of 13% compared to 2010. Thus, Sweden is second to last among comparable countries – second to last! The study also notes that patients in Sweden have, in many respects, less experience with healthcare than patients in other countries. This is not good enough, Madam President. It's really not good enough, but it wouldn't have to be like this. You can change that. All we have to do is look at our neighboring country, Denmark. That's where they've done it. But then we must also have a health policy that focuses strategically and purposefully on reducing waiting times. It is also important to develop a national plan for those patients who are currently stuck in the chronically long care queues. People are dying today in the care queues in Sweden. This must not continue. Although health care, as we all know, is a county council matter, we have a responsibility at national level; we cannot and should not turn a blind eye to that. This is why the Swedish Democrats in our budget are proposing a new health care reform, where we are largely inspired by our Nordic neighbours. We have visited them throughout the entire term of office and have seen what solutions can be found there. This applies mainly to Denmark. There were previously similar problems as we have today with long care queues, but they managed to reverse the trend. This means that Denmark today is able to meet the time requirement for a so-called monthly guarantee for almost all patients. Long waiting times are rarely discussed in Denmark these days. The patient rights guarantee that we propose in our budget is a real guarantee with both belt and braces. It ensures that patients receive the care to which they are entitled under the Health Care Act. For this we set aside 4.5 billion over a three-year period. We do this in order to reverse the negative spiral that Swedish healthcare is in. Madam President, I would like This is important, and here I want to be very clear: we can never accept the situation that prevailed this summer here in Stockholm, where 20 cancer patients were operated too late because the queues were too long. This has brought great human suffering to patients and their relatives. IVO is now investigating two deaths related to the long care queues. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats see the availability and lack of health care places as the most important issue to address. The lack of accessibility has several causes, but as a common thread it can be observed that the problem of closed care places is usually due to a lack of trained health professionals. Strong efforts and targeted measures need to be put in place here to maintain existing staff and to attract back staff who have, for some reason, stopped. Madam President, I would like That is why we are investing heavily in our budget, all of which aim to improve the work situation of health care staff, which will ultimately mean shorter care queues for patients. The lack of specialist nurses is a major problem, which greatly contributes to the long waiting periods. The number of specialist nurses has decreased over time despite the increasing need for care. Although several county councils have offered wages during full-time studies, the level was clearly not sufficiently high. Therefore, we earmark 250 million annually to give nurses the opportunity to become specialists on study wages. Another important group in health care is the nurses. We believe it is time to introduce common national training for nurses. This would ensure the quality of the profession and lead to identification. In most of the countries in Europe and all the Nordic neighbours, assistant nurse is a licence profession. It is about improving patient safety and improving the quality of healthcare. But it would also be more attractive to train as a nurse. Madam President, I would like In summary, the Swedish Democrats invest 11 billion more in health care than the government does over a three-year period. But most importantly, we have a clear strategy and vision for Swedish healthcare. We will have an international top-class healthcare system where patients will be able to feel confident about getting treatment at the right time and of the highest quality. And no patients should risk dying while waiting for medical attention.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1058	Madam President, I would like I was not going to ask for a reply on Per Ramhorn's post. But I heard far too many horror stories of Swedish health care. Of course, we should take the lack of accessibility and queues seriously. But I do not believe that the Swedish people, patients or health care services are valiant by such horror stories and exaggerated accounts as Per Ramhorn is engaged in. Everyone else usually, if we are to be fair, start their speeches by saying that Swedish healthcare is of very high quality. We have very good medical results. We also have relatively good equality and access to health care. Then there are shortcomings. Yes, we have queues for the care. But it is not the top priority patients who are there. We'll know. One should certainly not wait too long for care anyway. But the top priority patients get their care. Things have happened that should not happen. And it happened in the county council where Per Ramhorn's party supports bourgeois rule, namely in Stockholm. With other guidance, these patients could have been referred to other county councils that could have taken care of them. Furthermore, we know that the old queue billions led to crowding-out effects by those patients and citizens who have perhaps the absolute greatest need for medical care, namely the chronicles and the multisick elderly. One can only believe that the horror stories will lead people to vote for a party that stands for a right-wing, xenophobic and anti-employee policy. It also risks the Swedish security policy.
i-Wg1LCVcnPW6gbbPPTVG6G7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson! As for the fact that what I read out would be horror propaganda, I would like to inform you that these are statistics from the Health Analysis and the National Board of Health and Welfare. Two weeks ago we had a visit to the Health Analysis which included this report, which I show to the Members of this House. It is called Promise-Free Guarantee and is about the health guarantee, which you think is so good. Among other things, it says that a growing number of people are waiting longer and that the number that has been waiting for more than 90 days for surgery has increased by just over 100 percent. This year almost 4,000 patients have been waiting for surgery for more than a year. This is not a horror propaganda. Is it better to silence it and think you should forget it? It's about patients, and patients are dying today. We are the worst in Europe, and the government has no answer. I have to ask: what concrete measures is the government taking to ensure that these patients, who are in line today, receive faster treatment? Right now, as we stand in this Chamber, there are between 40 000 and 50 000 patients in line. Then it does not help to say that we are increasing resources for primary care and that we are putting forward proposals for a patient billion to increase accessibility. That's good. But it does not help those who are in line for specialist care. There you have no proposals whatsoever. You have good suggestions in terms of increasing the number of places in nursing education and in order to stimulate people to start working in health care. That's good. But that doesn't help the m standing in line today. And there are no challenges. It is not a challenge to stand in line; it is a pure crisis, preferably when it comes to cancer care.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1067	Madam President, I would like The government proposes a number of measures to address the lack of accessibility. There are proposals for structural changes on the government table. 5 1⁄2 billion will be provided with care. It's a unique bet. There's never been a lot of bets before. However, we are also trying to tackle the root causes of evil, that is, brain drain and structural changes. Besides, we're financing the whole thing. If you look closely at the Swedish Democrats' budget, you can see that there is a deficit to municipalities and county councils of more than 20 billion. You take one hand and you give with the other. It is completely unfunded. Again – who benefits from not balancing the description of the basically good healthcare available in Sweden today? It gives us the healthcare that most people need. It is given in an equal way and with high quality. We have a problem with queues. Yes. But that's the root of the evil we're about to attack. And the government has a number of well-described and well-funded proposals for it. The Swedish democrats have not financed the investments they make in their budget, but rather the very opposite. They have a deficit of SEK 20 000 986 000.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1072	Madam President, I would like As for the attack on our budget, I will not spend time explaining how to read a budget. Because I get to do that every time. Again – you have no proposal for the patients in the care line today, Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson. Imagine that you or your relatives had been in line! The fact that you are now trying to build something completely new from scratch is a good thing. But you have to keep two things in your head at the same time. Just because you are building it from scratch and restructuring it, you cannot leave the 50 000 who are in line today to the wolves. You must have a plan for them. What do you say to those in line? And it's not just in Stockholm. It looks the same all over the country. I know that Anna-Lena Sörenson has no more speaking time and therefore cannot reply. It makes me frustrated and worried that you don't have a plan for those patients but just let them go to the wolves. This means that people must instead take private health insurance in order to receive care. Is that the kind of society we want? No, it's not. The government should show leadership and keep two balls running at the same time: changing primary care – and that is needed – but also taking responsibility for our citizens, the 50 000 in line today. Unfortunately, you don't.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1077	Madam President, I would like Listeners, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working long-term and determinedly to develop and strengthen welfare policy. This ambition sets a clear mark on Category 9. Before I move on, I regret to inform you that I will not be able to stay within the time announced. As a number of previous speakers, I will be spending a great deal of time. Health, health and social care, together with parental insurance, health and unemployment insurance, are at the heart of Swedish welfare policy. It is also very clear in the Government's budget in all these policy areas. But I think it's most obvious in Category 9. The single largest investment in the budget area that we are now discussing is made by the government in the area of health. This appropriation will be increased from EUR 37.7 billion last year to EUR 44.1 billion in the budget now to be adopted. So this is an increase of 6.4 billion. This means an increased government investment of 19 percent. So most of this year's investment in Category 9 goes to health care. We have repeatedly heard representatives of the alliance parties from this pulpit point out that during their years in power, they increased efforts in health care by historically high figures. That is not the image the citizens have had of the eight years of the Alliance in power. It is also not the picture that everyone who has got it much tougher at work in health care has got. There's another way of looking at it. What about the alliance parties' spending on Category 9 over their eight years? Looking at the budgets adopted, it is easy to calculate that the average increase in resources to Category 9 per year amounted to SEK 1,906,909,880. Compared to what the current government is doing, the increase in category 9 of the budget has instead been more than double, or SEK 3,883,810,750 per year on average. If, during its years in power, the alliance government made historically great efforts more than duplicates the red-green government's efforts in our years so far. There are those who are trying to break this picture of reality by claiming that in recent years the population has grown so strongly that that is why such a large increase in expenditure is necessary. True, under red - green rule, the population is growing faster than under dark - blue conservative rule. People choose for themselves whether they want to move to a country on their way to sustainable development or whether they want to move from a country on their way down into the colossus. But the differences in population growth are not as great as many people think. During the eight years in power of the Alliance, the country's population increased by an average of 83,536 persons annually. During the three years that we have so far steered the country towards sustainability, the increase has been on average 86 650 people per year. It is certainly an increase, but only with 3,114 people more per year than the average over the previous two terms of office. It can hardly be argued that it is because of the rather marginal rate of population growth in the country that the Red-Green Government chooses to double annually the so-called historic efforts during the alliance years. No, Madam President, we are doing it simply because we have ambitions for welfare. Many journalists tend to argue that voters want clear information: What are the alternatives in Swedish politics? As far as health, social and social care are concerned, the red-green option is clear. It is about efforts, to expand and strengthen, to improve both patients, users and staff. We have the ambition to improve quality and make healthcare professions more attractive. Looking at the so-called alliance parties, they are hardly a government-worthy alternative to issues relating to care and care. We have now heard two representatives from the alliance parties talk a lot about their efforts, but the budgets are running. I was going to use my speech to discuss the question: Is the Alliance available at all in this area? The Moderates lie very close to the red-green budget. The main deviations are the removal of 45% of state grants in the field of disability. You take away 350 out of 767 million, that's 45%. The contribution to psychiatry is reduced by 37 per cent or 650 million, which in brackets is very strange given that it is the kind of problem that is currently growing fastest. Similarly, the contribution to social work is reduced by 38 percent when 575 million of the government's investment of approximately 11⁄2 billion is cut. So, with the exception of the deviations I reported, the Oderatians are following the Red-Green Government quite well. On the other hand, there is a great deal of tension between the alliance parties' proposals. How will voters interpret a possible alternative to the Red-Green Government when the Moderates add another 595 million to the Government's public health and healthcare investment when the envisaged partners the Center Party and the Christian Democrats each want to cut off over 3 billion in the same post? In the end, the differences will be more than 50% between these parties that will cooperate. The Moderates spend twice as much as the Center Party and the Christian Democrats on public health and healthcare. Liberals are a little more cautious and only spend 876 million less than the Moderates. But it's very sprawling. How do you get it together? There are many more examples in the budgets of the alliance parties to be considered. One might wonder, for example, how the alliance parties can agree on a package of measures for elderly care is the Center Party wants to remove 2 billion while the Christian Democrats want to add 2.8 billion. The Moderates are only making a slight adjustment to the Red-Green Government. They settle on almost the same amount, but add 152 million. One might wonder: What government option can one guess as a voter that leads to? Maybe the red-green government together with the Moderates? The other alliance parties are miles away. But, Madam President, perhaps we should not bury ourselves too much in the details but go down to the last line of our report. When there is a lot of tension between parties that claim to be able to cooperate, they usually defend themselves with the fact that they only put the money in different positions within the total. It could be true if you look at Moderates' opportunities to cooperate with the Red-Green Government. Although there are some points that differ significantly in the Moderate draft budget compared to the Red-Green Government, the total deviation is still not so great. The posts in addition are so small that it should be possible to adjust, I think. There is a prerequisite for cooperation. If you look at the differences between the alliance parties in total, it is difficult to understand how they can find each other at all. The Center lays down more than 6 1⁄2 billion under Moderates' bids and the Christian Democrats lay down more than 10 billion higher than the Moderates. The difference between the highest and lowest bids between the alliance parties is therefore as much as 16 1⁄2 billion. Then some of you who listen may think that it may still not be so much money in relation to the total amounts, that it is miscalculation money. In fact, however, there is a difference of over 20% of the total amount for Category 9. It is rarely that one hears or sees something like that in the political debate, except, of course, the Swedish Democrats who tend to have major deviations, but in other policy areas. One might ask: how are voters to know what kind of politics you get if you put your vote on the alliance parties when it sprawles so strongly? Madam President, I would like I have not mentioned the Liberals so much, because it is the party that is closest to the government on the whole. But if you look at the sub-posts you can see that they also sprawl on several points. This applies mainly to the Moderates but also to the other two intended partners. Some of the Liberals' partial amounts differ greatly from those of the government. For example, the Liberals are removing 281 million from public health and healthcare. Instead, the Moderates add 595 million. There'll be a difference of 876 million between what they want there. On the other hand, the Liberals spend 700 million when the Moderates cut 152 million on measures in the care of the elderly. There's a difference of 852 million. You hear that there is a lot of tension between these two parties. Liberals are cutting back on psychiatry, where the Centers are increasing. And when the Christian Democrats increase the dental benefit, the Liberals cut back. The differences are, in themselves, just over 200 million in each area, but they are still an example of sprawling. The fact that there is so much difference between the draft budgets of the bourgeois parties can have a completely different explanation than that it is just a coincidence. I have said before that journalists tend to say that voters want clear information about what the alternatives are in Swedish politics. But perhaps it is not so obvious that the voters want clear answers. The Alliance's spin doctors may have chosen a different approach: Many different messages attract different electoral groups, and it may not be so important if the proposals they present can be reconciled to a government option at all. Here, the government's proposal for total expenditure is either up to just over 11 per cent or just over 10 per cent. There is a difference of 16.5 billion. At some of the sub-posts, it distinguishes more than 50 per cent between what the bourgeois parties offer voters to vote for. Some of the options should be suitable for almost all voters. Maybe that's what you've been thinking. But how are voters to know what kind of government alternatives this results from? What is the message to voters with a sprawling mess like this? It simply becomes that no one knows what such a government option means. But this is true of lotteries – most draw a rivet. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report. With regard to the issue of general authorisation, I would like to endorse that reservation. I think that the proposal to subject municipalities' statutory obligation to provide welfare services to a permit requirement, which is at issue, is reversed. I think the proposal is only supported by unemployed lawyers who see constant processes as a way of creating more jobs for their corps. However, this is not the kind of job we need, but we need more well-educated people in healthcare, school and care. This is what the government is investing in. Bad laws and rules create unnecessary work. Good legislation directs resources to where citizens' needs lie. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by wishing the President and my colleagues in Parliament a Merry Christmas and hopefully a very substantive election year 2018.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1118	Madam President, I would like I can reassure the Member of the Green Party and all citizens, which is perhaps even more important, that we in the four alliance parties know that we are four different parties. We know that we have different priorities and slightly different views and focus on some things. We also know, however, that we have the capacity for a solid cooperation that makes us all very sure that, despite the differences in our draft budgets, we will be able to rule Sweden. What was included in the speeches from the alliance parties that have so far been made – from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates – and what I am sure will be included in the representatives of the Center and Liberals are our visions of how to get even more out of taxpayers' money. We will get even better care, even more security in care for the elderly and even better care at all stages of life when we need it. This was missing from the speech by the Green Party. There was very little about the Green Party's visions. I would like to hear what priorities the Green Party has made. When you have been involved in supporting a budget that says that we have 40 billion to invest, but we choose not to prioritise the most vulnerable in society, those in need of support and service in case of a disability. Instead, you are prepared to accept cutbacks after cutbacks, which in fact now exists because the government does not assume its responsibilities. Why has the Green Party made such a priority?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1123	Madam President, I would like I wanted to show with my speech that when you tell us what you want to offer the voters and take the same money, they are not enough. For one party wants to do one thing, the other party wants to do another thing, the third party wants to do a third thing and the fourth party wants to do a fourth thing. When one describes the intended vision in this way, with four different variants to dispose of the funds, the money is not enough. You may not have to have four times as much money, but you may have to have twice as much money to implement all of your proposals. I am sure you will be able to negotiate and agree on just about anything. But what's it gonna be? That is what the voters are interested in. However, the voters will not receive any information from you, as they will see three different visions. No one knows what the result is. There may be nothing of what the Moderates want or what the Christian Democrats want. If you weigh these posts together, you will end up in almost every line of business approximately where the government is. But some want a lot more, and some want a lot less. Perhaps there will be a red-green policy of your post-election compromise. It's possible. That is what I wanted to convey, because I think the debate is so distorted when we talk about things that are not connected at all, and your draft budgets do not. They're not connected in any way. There's a 16 1⁄2 billion difference between the bottom and the top bid. To vote for you is like a lottery, I think. This was the ambition of my speech. This is not, moreover, about 40 million, but about 44.1 million, which we have at our disposal in the health care sector. I just wanted to correct the number. We believe that we have made a powerful contribution to increasing resources for health care during our term of office. We believe that it matters how much resources are spent on health care. We have not, by the way, been involved in making any cuts, as the Christian Democrats claim.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1132	Madam President, I would like I called for the ambitions of the Green Party. What are the Environmental Party's ambitions to create improvements in Swedish health care, Swedish care and Swedish welfare in the parts that apply at the times of life when each of us can end up in a situation when we need the support of society? Specifically, I asked why the Green Party in its efforts has chosen not to do anything for the people in need of LSS. We see that it now costs billions less in this area, and the government accepts it. We have received an investigation from the responsible authorities that shows that these are some of the groups in society that are in greatest need of community support. Many of them do not receive this support at all. This is something the Green Party accepts. One could say that the government has not taken an active decision to change the law. No, and that's one of the big problems. There is a need for a change of law when the application of the law has been transferred. However, you accept this change, and you accept that there will be billions of savings on the most vulnerable. Last night another report came from the National Board of Health and Welfare. It shows that many of those who have been withdrawn from state aid are completely deprived of the support of society. It points to the risks of the possibility of participation in society and of living a life like others now being restricted. This applies to both children and adults. Why has the Green Party made this priority? Why can't we hear what the Green Party wants to do? Or does the Green Party, like the Social Democrats, have little ambition in this area?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1138	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to respond to arguments of this kind, which I do not think are real. There have been no reductions. The cost reductions that have taken place have been due to the application. Emma Henriksson belongs to a party that was in the government before the last election and did nothing about this, although we already knew that this legislation was hollow. We knew it was hollow when it was adopted in 1993. We knew it wouldn't work once it was tried in court. Then that's exactly what happened. We have started the process that is required. We are not interested in rushing forward solutions that do not stand up for judicial review. We want legislation for this group with regard to the LSS. We want legislation that holds for judicial review, so that we know that it actually works, and we have started work on this. But it takes time. Meanwhile, we are trying to repair the damage that occurs as best we can. We've started that work. I think it is a bit unfair to blame this government, because it is nothing new since it took office, but it is a problem that we have known since the LSS came into being. The process of developing new legislation that works and lasts would have had to start ten years ago. Then Emma Henriksson asks what the Green Party wants in this area. I started by telling you what we want in this area. We have very high ambitions. We believe that one of the reasons why we are having problems today is that we have had eight years of alliance government when we have not invested in the profession and have not invested in the education that we are now spending money on. The reason why we do not have staff is because staff have not been trained, and it takes a term of office. It takes four to five years to train staff. We will have better solutions after the next elections.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1143	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the central aspect of Swedish welfare, namely healthcare, care for the elderly, social services and how people with disabilities can live a life like others. However, what we in the Swedish Parliament have to decide on is a small part of this, namely how the state's budget affects the area. The large parts are about the cost of prescription medicines and the state assistance allowance. Most of the costs for this in Sweden are financed by municipalities, county councils and regions taxing citizens' income. There's the big investment from our country in this area. The most important thing the state can do to ensure that there is money for cancer care, home care and LSS housing is to conduct an economic policy that leads to increased growth and more people get into work. Here is the central conflict between the Center Party and the other alliance parties on the one hand and the three left parties on the other. The alliance government's economic and welfare policies resulted in the resources for school, health care and care with our nine budgets increasing by more than SEK 100 billion in fixed prices. Resources increased per inhabitant, and the number of doctors, midwives and nurses per inhabitant increased. For the left parties, the direction is the opposite. Raising taxes is the best way to get money for health care, school and care. If it had been right, Sweden would have been at an absolute peak, because we have one of the world's highest tax pressures. Moreover, as if it were not enough, the left-wing government has increased taxes by SEK 30 billion. Nevertheless, the fact that Sweden is still on the march is mainly due to the Alliance's reforms through nine state budgets until 2015. Essentially, these reforms remain firm, such as job tax deductions. There's talk of them being bad and all, but the red-green government has left everyone stuck. They remain, and that money goes out to the citizens and kick-starts Sweden in different ways. The second major conflict in the area of welfare concerns the view that private companies should offer home care, school, assistance and health care. For the Center Party, private companies are a very important part of making Swedish welfare work better. The idea that all well-being should be run in large public institutions fell short already in the 1980s and 1990s. Neither patients, caretakers nor welfare employees felt that the large systems were able to meet their expectations of quality, accessibility and own influence. The reforms that have been implemented since then have opened up choice and enhanced dynamism. The Swedish welfare model, which is based on joint funding and a clear opportunity to choose its own performer, has strong popular support. We in the Center Party want to defend that. It is therefore sad and sad to see how the left parties during this parliamentary term have pursued something that could be called witch-hunt on private entrepreneurs. During the entire term of office, the Centre Party and the Alliance have stood by an extended hand in order to reach a cross-block agreement on sharp quality requirements and strengthened welfare supervision, regardless of the principal. That offer remains. Unfortunately, however, it is clear that the government, together with the Left Party, is working in a different direction. The audit firm PWC last autumn reviewed what the Reepalu investigation proposal would mean in practice and was very clear in its conclusions: the opportunities for the welfare companies to operate will be significantly limited if the investigation's proposal becomes a reality. The fact that companies will have very little opportunity to build up economic buffers means that the activities will be very vulnerable to economic disruption. They're being strangled. I am disappointed and upset that the three left-wing parties are now prepared to close down fully functioning assistance companies, retirement homes and home help providers instead of tackling the real problems of welfare. In Sweden there are a large number of people with large disabilities who now get their assistance withdrawn. There are elderly people who don't fit in nursing homes. Queues to health care are increasing. Getting to grips with this should be much more important than now wanting to go forward with what is in practice a surplus ban on the private operators in the Swedish healthcare sector. In an international perspective, Swedish health care has good results. However, as we live longer and can treat more diseases, health requirements change. The Alliance government invested more resources than ever before in health care. Queues were shortened, the number of health centres increased and opening hours became more generous. The quality of healthcare was strengthened, and patients became more satisfied with the care. Unfortunately, as today's debate shows, developments have now turned around. There are growing queues and impaired accessibility. The growing queues in healthcare make care more unequal. The differences in accessibility are currently large between county councils. If queues are allowed to grow more, we will end up in a situation where the place of residence and the economy play a crucial role in what care you can get and when. In order to be able to shorten queues and increase accessibility for the patient, more actors need to be given the opportunity to help carry out the care. As I said: During the year of the Alliance, queues decreased, and the availability of care increased. This was achieved by allowing a variety of options, while at the same time rewarding shorter queues. Medical care should be available to all people throughout the country. Today, there are too many differences in access to healthcare, including the distance from healthcare. One example is how fewer and fewer people have a fixed doctor's contact in primary care. The biggest problem is in left-wing county councils and regions. Despite high medical density, in Sweden, it is not possible to give doctors at health centres. In some county councils, less than 30 percent of patients have a fixed medical contact. At the same time, about 1,000 staffet doctors work in Swedish health care, which costs the county councils SEK 1 billion per year. Madam President, I would like The problems in primary care can be solved. This shows, not least, the development in Norway, which has gone from the fact that only half of the population had a permanent medical contact in primary care to that of almost everyone today. That is a good example. One of the most important changes that gave Norway a strong primary care is that doctors have the opportunity to run their own businesses on a small scale and become entrepreneurs. It is time for the government to take the acute crisis in primary care seriously. This is the fourth and hopefully the last time in a long time that we are debating the draft budget of the left-wing government and a lack of reform. Swedish welfare faces major challenges. The solution is not a profit ban. Real changes are needed that reduce the gaps that we see in Swedish welfare. That is what the debate up to the elections will be about. Parliament's framework decision has been taken. The Center Party budget fell. That is why we do not take part in Parliament's decisions. I refer to our particular opinion.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1162	Madam President, I would like I note that even Staffan Danielsson was unable to hold his speaking time. We would need two rounds of our debates. We have a lot to debate. Many have spoken of differences between the Alliance's proposals. Staffan Danielsson himself was involved in general efforts to enable county councils and municipalities to make their own decisions and to be able to make democratic considerations locally. You can compare this with, for example, the Christian Democrats' very hard central control and very targeted proposals for initiatives. That's interesting. The Centre Party's position is that it knows trust and confidence that local politicians will be able to make the decisions that they are supposed to be able to make according to the Constitution. It is also about that we in Sweden have organized ourselves in municipalities and county councils because we believe that this is where the knowledge is about the local conditions and the local needs. It therefore seems incomprehensible to place so much trust in the requirement for a national authorisation. In our opinion, this means moving decisions from local politicians to officials in Stockholm. It's strange to me that the Center Party is running such a strong line for it. It would be interesting to hear a comment from Staffan Danielsson on that particular position.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1166	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson for her warm words about the importance of decentralisation and decision-making in county councils and municipalities by politicians who are rooted in reality. That's what we in the Center Party are really burning for. But we are also in favour of the need for framework laws and principles that lay the foundations for the operation. The simple answer to Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson's question is that the national permit granting provides a foundation that must be the starting point when municipalities work. Based on that foundation, they own themselves to lie down higher or in slightly different ways, but the foundation should be fixed. The alliance parties are four parties that have proved able to cooperate in more than nine budgets until barely two years ago, when the last one expired. That is what has been said here. We are different parties, and we currently have a slightly different emphasis in our proposals. It's democracy. I have set out the priorities of the Center Party. My good alliance colleagues have shown theirs. Anyone who wonders where we land can see how we landed the nine years that have been. We will land well even the four, eight or twelve years ahead. The left-wing parties are unbeatable at raising taxes and then distributing them into subsidies and trying to get the debate to be about it. We constantly want to broaden the debate and show that the foundation of Sweden's prosperity is our market economy, our business and tax revenues. Better at freeing up the powers of small businesses, it provides better resources for the public sector. Overall, we believe that this is much better than simply raising taxes and distributing revenue.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1172	Madam President, I would like The previous government ownership of the Alliance ended up with quite large deficits in the state budget and large holes in welfare. So much for the tax cuts and privatisations made during that period. Madam President, I would like That's really what it's all about for the Center. It is more important to privatise public activities than to protect local and municipal autonomy. That is why it is also possible to raise the issue of decision-making. That's what it's all about. In this case, it is not a question of central requirements for quality, but of authorisation. It lifts decisions from the local level up to officials in Stockholm. It should not even be democratic. It will not be in such a system. Staffan Danielsson then talks a lot about the fact that they have different priorities and will solve it in different ways. You can agree with that. You can look at the Center Party's proposal to finance welfare and close the holes and meet the challenges Staffan Danielsson described in his post. We see that it ends in a minus for the Center Party with a little more than SEK 315 million. It takes one hand and gives with the other and proposes tax cuts of a total of SEK 35.6 billion. Madam President, I would like With regard to the requirement to limit profits in welfare, the Swedish people feel that we in the Red-Green parties are the same. Ohemula gains and putting Swedish tax money into foreign tax havens is not okay. I have not seen any proposals from the Center Party on how to limit it and get tax money to work in Sweden in public welfare.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1176	Madam President, I would like The Center Party is in very much in favour of combating tax evasion, preventing tax havens and so on. On this issue, I see that we are very close. We are happy to join the debates in not just discussing exactly how we increase taxes and then distribute subsidies in various targeted subsidies, and I think that is a good thing. That's not the point anyway. The crucial thing is that Sweden goes as a train, that we get tax money and have resources for good health care, care for the elderly and so on that are essentially paid with municipal money, regional money and county council money. There, my picture is different from that of Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson with the fact that the alliance period with nine budgets was not a good thing. There was a deficit. We had a huge financial crisis to contend with. We reformed economic policy very strongly and got Sweden moving, and employment increased. We came through the great crisis and laid a foundation for the government to benefit greatly even today. You haven't changed much. You are a weak minority government that does not put forward many proposals. We do not go on high speed here in Parliament during this autumn and spring. It does not send out proposals and proposals from the government, which I am happy about. Of course you do damage. Of course, some of your suggestions will be negative. But most of what we did is solid. It's about getting businesses and businesses moving and getting resources to care. I hope that we can get started again from the Alliance when we hopefully come to power in 2018. We are united by the fact that we all want good health care. I am convinced that the Alliance's and the Center Party's concept of getting Sweden going is number one.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1182	Madam President, I would like The former Alliance, the right n, would like to say that health care immediately deteriorated when Löfven took office as Prime Minister and when the Left Party became a negotiating party to the government. But it is actually the county councils that are responsible for health care locally and not the government. The emergency departments at Södersjukhuset and Nya Karolinska were rejected by the Inspection for Care last week. I think you should beat a pling to your right-wing politicians in Stockholm County Council. They have shown what the Centers, the KD, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats want with healthcare in Sweden. A split fourth place was the result for Swedish healthcare when accessibility and efficiency were compared between 195 countries. Swedish healthcare is world class when it comes to saving the lives of patients with a wide range of diagnoses. We should not forget that when the whole health care system is blacked out. This is a record budget for health care. This year's government subsidy, with the Left Party negotiating party, for the entire area is 7 billion. And the health care package, which I will be talking about, is 4.7 billion a year. Then we should not forget the small sum of 10 billion annually to municipalities and county councils for the entire term of office. On the guide sides to the right, they're not very happy. They sigh. But we in the Left are proud that we have negotiated funds for equal care. On the right, you reward profits in welfare. On the left we reward equality. Women's health has in many ways been neglected and not as high a priority as men's. That is why it is fantastic that the government together with us has presented a series of initiatives on women and women's health. In fact, I am most proud of the fact that the Left Party, together with the government, has made efforts to strengthen delivery. It is an additional 1 billion that the Left has negotiated to employ more in maternity care. I say, hire. It is a prerequisite that the county councils do so. We're really talking about gender equality here. I am pleased that all parties are now in favour of this. You're making your thumb up for a left-wing reform. We didn't think so. Another reform that we in the Left have negotiated in the budget, which promotes equality and equality, is free screening of so-called cell sampling. Cell sampling allows early cell changes to be detected and treated even before they develop into cervical cancer. It is also documented that women who regularly participate in cell sampling lower their risk of cervical cancer by about 90 percent. Currently, 6 of Sweden's 21 county councils offer women free cell sampling. It will now be free throughout Sweden. I've had cell changes myself. They were discovered in time. I'm very glad it didn't go any further. I think that on the right you are saying no to this reform, just as with the reform on free mammography. Then I would actually recommend that you read the report that we produced together on cancer care and cancer. Various cancer doctors, professors and so on – I can give you examples of additional doctors – have clearly written that they think free screening is great, along with other parts you can work with. So this is nothing that we ourselves have been stirring up at the desk, so to speak. Mental ill health is increasing. It's been growing for years. The mental diagnoses account for about 45 percent of all ongoing sick leave. More women than men are on sick leave due to mental illness. I think you should look at that a little extra. Mental ill-health is increasing among people with short education and among young people. That is why we in the Left Party have been involved in pushing through mental health initiatives. It is about self-employment projects, mental health care for children and young people, the emphasis on youth clinics and so on. The new venture is about 1 billion. Much more is needed in the area of mental health and ill health. This is a major public health problem. Because of the metoo, it is also obvious that psychiatry must be able to accommodate all the girls and women who have been subjected in various ways to abuse that has been traumatic and harmed them for life. It's about today and tomorrow. That goes without saying. Children's health is reflected by the parents'. This is a class issue. Some children are cherished on the sun side, others on the shadow side. The inequality of care is serious in general, but it is especially serious when children are affected. Then it'll be very unequal. They'll have to start from a very unfavorable position. We want to bring in the children's perspective. We have negotiated EUR 142 million for socio-economically vulnerable areas. I have travelled around a lot in Sweden – so I have not only been to Stockholm, as some believe – and talked to the heroes who carry up health care. I mean, the whole health care system is built up by heroes. In the debate from the right, it seems that the crisis came suddenly, out of nowhere, as a spirit out of the bottle. The number of cancellations at emergency hospitals in Stockholm County increased dramatically in 2016, showing new figures. There were 4,633 operations cancelled. Why was that? Was it because people disappeared, did something else, went to the beach? No, to a large extent this was due to the lack of staff and care places. In your budgets, you point out the cue billions, but there is not much discussion about staff investments. It is the staff who carry the entire health care system. Only the staff can reduce queues and ensure that care places can be filled and that childhood cancer surgery can be carried out. It's just the staff. There is a need for real investment in staff. One of the negotiated reforms from us is 2 billion to improved working conditions for health workers. It would take a lot more, I would say. It is about improving working conditions, having power over your own work, better schedules, shorter working hours and better wages. Staff is the engine. I miss the commitment on your part, but perhaps you can see it if you dive deep into your budgets. Accessibility is extremely important – it is always good. However, it must be set against the needs of Swedish health care law. We rarely talk about the overall law that we have here in Sweden. In Stockholm we have a fantastic accessibility. It's almost extreme sometimes, I have to say. I can write my own referrals to dermatologists and ophthalmologists. No one asks for my needs. That's how it works. No one's checking if I need this or not. But what is striking in healthcare throughout Sweden is that those with the greatest need are farthest from care. This applies to those with addiction problems, those with mental health problems, those with multi-sickness and the elderly. Health care, as Care Analysis says in one of its reports, is best at capturing them with limited needs. The most obvious is this in Stockholm, where we have unlimited accessibility. This is your shop window. That's why I'm talking about Stockholm. It's really your shop window. Here you have bourgeois parties – I can call you the right – together with the Swedish Democrats ruled for twelve years. Then we can look at how it turned out in a place where you have been advised on the whole health policy for 12 years. It's always interesting. It is a clear example of what will happen throughout Sweden if you sit there for twelve years, I think. We have a lot of care choices. I think that's good. It's good to have care choices. We have 17 of them. It's very biased. It may be interesting to know where the doctors have established themselves in Stockholm. Norrmalm has a wonderful accessibility. 18% of private performers are there. 3% of the population lives there. Botkyrka has 1.94 per cent of private performers. Apparently it's not so popular to be in Botkyrka. But 4.11 percent of the population lives there. Then, of course, you say: Oh, it's so good that the care is where people work. But then I wonder: Does everyone work at Norrmalm or in the inner city? Of course, that is not the case. Is there any evidence that 13 health centres are needed at Östermalm? Does everyone work there? Does this reflect the needs? I think it's interesting. As I said, accessibility is enormous. Nevertheless, we call in Stockholm city centre more to the digital medical services than others. It's still a little exciting. We in the city centre call Dr Kry– there is a study about it too – more than those who live in the interior of Västernorrland. We are also super sick here in Stockholm, it seems. The consumption of medical care in Stockholm County is 40 per cent higher than in the rest of the country, calculated per capita. It's about supply and demand. Has this had a positive impact on public health? Have those who are farthest from care been embraced by the care choices? This really is your model. That's why I'm talking about it. It's the model of the right. That is what you are pointing out. It was a shop window for a long time. I don't really know how you're dealing with that right now. This is really your darling. It's your friends who've been running politics for 12 years. There have been so many choices, and it has become such a chaotic health care. New Karolinska is like a section of Pang in the building. Every day something new comes. They are misbuilt bathrooms and strange consultancy contracts that have cost a lot and led to nothing. There are a lot of angry doctors, nurses and health workers who have had enough. You can also read about this in the newspapers. In this way, I think that Stockholm County Council has become the cradle of inequality. The goal of health care is good health and care on equal terms for the whole population – not for private operators to make huge profits. Sometimes it's hardly a small business. It sometimes sounds like everyone's made up of six doctors running a health center, but here we are talking about big super companies. In Stockholm County Council there is this model, which is the Moderates, Centers, KD's Liberals and Sweden Democrats. This is how Sweden will develop if you regain power. That is why I raise the issue of Stockholm County Council. It's interesting to look at what's going on here. Not many people have spoken about care for the elderly in today's debate, but Mr Westerholm will do so in his speech. Getting older is not an illness or a state of emergency, but is a part of life. Class and age are reflected in economics and in ageing as such. As in the health care sector, staff are the engine of care for the elderly, Madam President. If you look at how the employees of elderly care are experiencing their work, you can see that there was a sharp shift from 2005 to 2015. Looking at what the privatisations of recent decades have led to, it can be seen that employees in private-run care consistently have worse conditions and lower wages than those working in municipal-run businesses. This is in a big report called So Much Better, which came in 2016 and which is made by Kommunal. It is on the staff that the private players pull in the profits – we have talked a little about profit issues here, so I do too. Today, 20% of those working in retirement homes lack the right upper secondary education, which is really crazy. In home care, the corresponding figure is 25 percent. Of course, it affects the elderly if the staff are not properly trained. It is therefore good that there are now proposals to have national training courses for nurses, for example. I guess it's about time. We went in with a reform of 2 billion, which was just about raising the staff of the elderly. It is also a reform that benefits the elderly in the long term. Social work has been neglected for a long time. The whole area needs to be strengthened with skills development and more administrative assistance. Social workers must be allowed to work as social workers again. With 250 million a year, we can strengthen social work and achieve stability. Those who seek out social services and those children whose reports of concern are to be read should have access to social workers who do not kneel. They should have access to social workers who listen and are there and who do the job that a social worker should do. The whole area needs to be lifted. We have seen catastrophic developments in personal assistance. It must be one of the biggest failures of the government, which I find boring. I think that the government, by still standing and watching after they have eroded one of the greatest freedom reforms of our time, has contributed to thousands of people not having their rights met. On this, the government, through regulatory letters and one-sidedly cost-focused investigations, has questioned the great reform of freedom that this is all about. This isn't just about surviving-- you should also be able to live your life. However, the government has not made any cuts in the budget. It was good that we were able to push ahead there and that we were able to raise the standard and ensure that the municipalities could introduce habilitation compensation. Equality is the hallmark of the Left. I am in favour of the reservation that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have left. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal. Madam President, I am sorry that I too have gone over time.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1221	Madam President, I would like I would sometimes wish that we could find ourselves in the debate in such a position that we actually have a bit of humility in our tone. For us Christian Democrats, it is incredibly important that we work preventively. We have high ambitions when it comes to reducing the gaps in healthcare – gaps that we see are increasing. We have as much money as the government, and the budget that the Left Party supports, to invest in getting more people to follow the screening programmes. Our criticism is about the way in which the money is spent – and it is about a lot of money. Many say that you should do this, that it should be good and that it should work. We share this will, and it would be great if it were that it actually had an effect to remove the fee. Sörmland County Council started six months before the government's decision took effect and has now done so for two years. It is two years that are needed to complete it, since the summons takes place at two-year intervals. After two years without fees, the manager of the business notes that there is no noticeable increase. We could have foreseen this on the basis of past experience. We can see from the government's efforts that it will not be what we might wish it to be. This money needs to be used to target those groups that do not visit the mammography. Despite the fact that Sörmland is doing quite well in this respect, it is one in five women who do not follow the screening programme. There will be a large number. I would like to hear from the Left Party: if it turns out that this is not working, are you prepared to reconsider it? Can we jointly find ways to use the money so that they actually reach it and those who are the target, or do you stick to the fact that the money is to be spent precisely in connection with the fee?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1226	Madam President, I would like Imagine if we could follow every reform you presented during your eight years, Emma Henriksson! Together, we could ask ourselves if the profits were so good or with the queue billions, but we do not. We are following these reforms. In addition, one or two years ago, we have presented another reform, which I believe covered 130 million a year. It would be aimed at health centres, which would work outreach to reach women with a worse health profile. There is an extreme inequality in healthcare that is both human and geographical. It must be combined with other things. We are following this, but we must also trust the regional cancer centres and what they say about, for example, free mammography, free cell sampling and mobile mammography units. You can build on a lot – I am absolutely convinced of that. When it comes to screening for cell sampling, Joakim Dillner, professor at Karolinska Institutet, said that in Europe only four countries had fees even in parts of the country, of which Sweden was one. A lot of specialists say that this is a prerequisite for more people going to screening. However, I believe that this must be combined with outreach. Of course it is, Emma Henriksson, that if this goes on and we get reports and see that this was not a good thing we have to think about something else. I would like all parties to look at their reforms in the same way – it would be interesting.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1232	Madam President, I would like I hope that the Left Party actually dares to see the results of what has been achieved in the budget and of the priorities it has made. You could have chosen to prioritise other things, such as LSS. It could have been a priority to put reality behind the words. What I hear from the representatives of the Left Party is as strong a commitment as there is in the hands of Christian Democrats to protect the people in need of support. At the same time, however, the Left Party supports a budget which states that in the last two years – because this is about the last two years, which we now have reports from state authorities confirming – something has happened radically in this area, leading to billions of savings. Legal developments that were not hindered, since they did not change the law, lead to that. The Left Party accepts this by supporting the budget presented by the government. It does not support our budget, which actually has more resources to improve the situation. Finally, I would like to say something about the situation in Stockholm. Surgery queues were mentioned in Stockholm, but Stockholm still belongs to top five. Most of the left-wing county councils, on the other hand, are at the bottom of the list. There are several red county councils that are located in, around or even below and where only half of the patients receive care in the time that the health guarantee has promised.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1237	Madam President, I would like Emma Henriksson knows that when it comes to LSS, we have really fought. These include the interpretation of judgments by Försäkringskassan. We're moving forward. Emma Henriksson knows that. In this budget, however, we have obtained the lump sums. Nevertheless, we have agreed on other fees relating to municipalities, such as money for those who work in their businesses. That's very good, I think. We've done what we could. The Left Party is not in the government, we are negotiating parties. Then we have to look at the whole thing. I agree that it would have been better if the government had put its foot down with us. Let's not do that. Let's wait for the investigation. We await what happens to the judges, and we await what happens to the Social Insurance Agency. So we are waiting for developments. You have different budgets in the Alliance. It also feels insanely shaky. As far as the situation in Stockholm is concerned, it is not just about accessibility. Stockholm is like living in a comic book world. You don't think that's true. It is not just about accessibility, it is about the disaster of the New Karolinska Hospital. There's a deal going on current account. The staff in Stockholm are so unhappy. I receive reports all the time via my left colleagues in Stockholm County Council. I am now receiving reports that the New Karolinska Hospital will not be able to accept the amount of births the hospital has counted on. So it's going to be an even worse birth crisis. Christmas will be terrible in Stockholm, because your friends in Stockholm County Council are not working enough with the staff. It's symptomatic. Accessibility means a lot, but it can also be extreme. Should you write your own referrals?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1244	Madam President, I would like With one exception, all of them have exceeded their registered speaking time by 50%. I therefore agree with Anna-Lena Sörenson's proposal to divide the debate into at least two blocks in the future. That's what we did in the '90s. Then we even had three blocks to get a proper time for the important debate. The Committee on Social Affairs is the committee that has the most matters on its table. We are now discussing Category 9. As the Liberals' budget has fallen, we will abstain from voting on the expenditure area. It has been said that 2006, 2010 and 2014 all parties in the Alliance started with various proposals, which we then baked together into one that we could go to elections on. We are used to this, and it is no wonder that it looks different. As regards how much we have invested in money on one and the other, I refer all the participants to read our specific opinion. It's all accounted for. It's hard to see in an auditorium like this what 200 million here and 1 billion there means. The basic view of liberals is that people are different and have different needs. We will try to meet those needs in the best possible way, and there will be freedom of choice for people to choose the option they feel is best for them and feel the most secure with. Another basic approach for us is not to use chronological age limits to assess needs. That is why we have not put up with free medicines for children. We are also critical of age limits for free dental care and so on. It is the needs that should govern, and we should not risk spending money on people who can actually pay for themselves. Some 140 000 people in Sweden can be described as fragile. These are the ones mentioned earlier who need good care for the elderly. The area is very little dealt with in the report. I want to highlight them. They are behind the primary care effort that we in the Liberals are doing in our alternative budget. We really want to implement Göran Stiernstedt's investigation Effective care by investing in support for county councils that want to follow his plan for change. One consequence of this investigation is Anna Nergårdh's investigation Good and close care. We want to invest in the training of specialists in general medicine. We also want to invest in a career reform for district nurses, and we want to reinstate carers to relieve nurses, doctors and others from tasks for which they are not actually trained. Healthcare providers can be a very important resource, also for the working environment that today does not meet a certain standard on all sides. Liberals are committed to mental health. These are large and small groups, and we invest in some forgotten groups. See, for example, dental care. There we pay attention to children who have been subjected to violence and injured their teeth. It must be notified and corrected. Another group is children and young people who have left institutions. There must be coordination between the school, student care and so on. Liberals are also investing heavily in assistance. This issue has been discussed in depth on many occasions in this House, so I am not addressing it here. Quality of life in care for the elderly is an important issue. There, the Liberals have highlighted a legal-food guarantee. It is important for quality of life and nutritional conditions. It moves on to having teeth to chew with. Dental care is costly for many people. Many find it strange that changing the knee and hip joints costs a few thousand pieces and even less to change an eye lens. But then it flies off to 10,000 – 12,000 if you are to change a tooth. There we liberals lower the limit of what you have to pay yourself to 2,500, and the maximum limit to pay 50% to 14,500. Madam President, I would like That concludes my speech in order to earn some time from the time that other committees are anxious about. They would like to be able to have a debate today.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1256	Madam President, I would like I will not prolong the debate, but we have all exceeded our time. I've been checking – others have been doing it all day, so not all the guilt should fall on the Social Affairs Committee. I have a question for you, Barbro, about training assistants. As you know, the government and the Left Party have invested in training nurses as specialist nurses with their wages. It was a problem before that one as a nurse was allowed to take student loans to educate themselves. Maybe it wasn't so hip. But what kind of training do you think the assistants need, and do you not think that greater efforts need to be made in health care? What else is needed? Even if 100 000 assistants rush in – now I'm pulling on a little – it won't open up care places, for example the 704 care places that are not in Stockholm because they are closed. So I wonder what kind of training you think the assistants need and what else you need to do, because I don't think that's enough. Assistants may be great, but you have to do so much more in health care when it comes to staff and investments. That's my one question. My second question to you is about accessibility. I think there should be availability specifically for the elderly and, as you said, fragile. But do you really think it is reasonable that as an individual I can write my own referral to private health care providers here in Stockholm and be called two days later? It's very fast, very fast, very fast, because there's no need assessment of whether I need this or not. If you go through a health centre, there's some kind of pejl. It has also cost because the care elections in Stockholm have run away so incredibly. Those are my questions to you.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1264	Madam President, I would like We'll bet on the specialist nurses. This is absolutely necessary in order to be able to open up care places. When it comes to caregivers, it is clear that they cannot come in directly from school, where they may not have received any hum about what it's like to work in health care. There is a need for training on how to meet patients – an empathic meeting is important – but also on the tasks they are going to take on. It may be to serve food or other things that the local hospital or health care centre decides to do. I can imagine that this training is done locally on the basis of the tasks that are seen to be carried out by these very people – as a rule, they are young or come from other countries –. When it comes to accessibility, we are in the Liberals for an ÄVC, the elderly health centre, at the health centres. This is the way in that we see that year-long, fragile people should go. If you first get an hour with a nurse and then an hour with a general practitioner with a little specialist knowledge of geriatrics, you have got to know each other, and then it is also easy to assess emergency care needs. That's the way we see it's the best way to go. It has been shown in Skåne, where it has been very successful.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1267	Madam President, I would like Now I'm a little worried again. If you imagine that all the 21 county councils will decide locally what training the assistants should have, it can be 21 different courses. I don't think it's a success story. I think you should have a common floor to stand on. I think it's important. It's great that you're now in favour of training nurses to be specialist nurses while maintaining your salary. It wasn't really like that during your eight years. It is quite different in the county councils today when it comes to who can and cannot get it. As far as accessibility is concerned, I absolutely agree that we should have it as an elderly person. It is included in Göran Stiernstedt's report that care choices for the elderly should be removed and specific care centres built up. I think that sounds excellent. But in Stockholm there will also be displacement effects. It is people who are certainly not sick who have access to health care; that is something that can be seen easily. To write your own referrals, is it really something that you as a liberal health care officer stands for – that it becomes such an availability that I, who am quite healthy, write the referral to let's say an ophthalmologist somewhere and get there the next day? There is no need to test it at all. This makes it easy for people in the inner city of Stockholm to have the greatest availability, who call Doctor Kry instead of going to the health centre and who can wait 24 hours even if they are not really sick.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1272	Madam President, I would like Now we have municipal self-determination. This is something you decide for yourself in Stockholm County Council. In our health care programme we have this with elderly health care centres. We also see from the system in Norrtälje, where you have coherent care and care with geriatric skills both at the hospital and at the health centre, that you should not cut up the efforts for the very fragile year-long people. They need to be held together. That is what we are putting forward, and this is where the senior health care centre alongside the MVC and the BVC has proved to be so successful. I am now pleased that more and more county councils or regions are adopting this approach. Västra Götaland has coherent care and care, and Norrtälje has permanent operations – and it costs no more. It costs less. It is better quality of the interventions, and it lowers the costs for municipalities and also for county councils through the working method of coherent care and care.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1275	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that we, on the part of the Moderates, have a special opinion on this decision, as our draft budget has fallen and we therefore abstain from voting on the proposal. The budget debate we are about to have now is about student aid. I would like to begin by going into what is in our particular opinion and what we on the part of the Moderates think is important to prioritise. We are putting forward proposals in this area, first and foremost, to make it easier for people to study in the middle of life as well. That is where we see that today, and perhaps even more so in the future, we will have major challenges. Our labour market is changing. New technologies and innovations make it easier. It prolongs our lives, but it also places new demands. In politics, we need to adapt to and meet these demands, and we need to face the problems that may arise as a result of the major social changes that are now taking place. It should also be pointed out that many people both want to and need to be able to change their profession someone in life. Old jobs disappear, and many new ones come into existence. If we do not meet it from a political point of view, people will fall between the chairs. Then people who today have jobs, who today make a huge contribution and have been involved in building our society, will not have their jobs in the future. There education is a crucial key. This applies to higher education, at university level, in polytechnics, in adult education – many different educational establishments around Sweden. Sometimes it is perhaps partly about places, but I also think it is extremely important to realize that for most people in the middle of life it matters less if there is a place to study if you can't afford to take it. We need to take that to heart. Here comes the question of student aid. When we live longer, many also need a longer working life. A changing labour market and longer working life mean that you not only need to study when you are young, but you will have to study in the middle of your life – when you have children, loans and many more than just yourself to take care of. As I said, the government is happy to increase the number of places in educations, which we in the Alliance have also done before and of course still do in some educations. But it does not help, as I said, to have the right to education if you cannot afford to read it. We therefore want to adapt the study aid system to this. It is not only important for society at large, for our continued growth and for our continued competitiveness in the world, but also for individuals. I think it is important that we remember, think about and highlight this kind of debate. What we are doing in the moderate budget option to meet this is to increase the amount of the release. We give adults more opportunity to keep a foot in the labour market while studying. We also increase the number of weeks of study, i.e. weeks of receiving study funding even if you are older than 40 years of age. We also remove obstacles that currently exist for older students to take student loans at all. We also raise the additional loans you as a student may take if you have children. All these proposals lower the thresholds and allow more people to study in the middle of life. This enables people to stay employable and to be prepared to change their profession. In view of the fact that two weeks ago we received a report from the Swedish National Audit Office on precisely the number of places expanded, I very much hope that today I can get answers from representatives of the government on how to use the funds that are better in the future, so that they go to something that has an effect. We can certainly have different opinions about what gives effect and what is good in itself – I have respect for that – but for two weeks all of us in here know that 40% of the funds that have gone to college and universities do not benefit anyone. So it is over 12 billion that is lying and does not provide any training. It also affects this budget. For each place of study we provide, of course, we also provide funding for studies. If no one can take that place, the money is also not used for study funds. So, in this budget too, we are blowing it up to a much larger size than we really need, and we have no effect on that money. I think that is worth remembering, and I very much hope that I will get an answer to the question of how to look forward in this regard.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1286	Madam President, I would like We support our specific opinion but otherwise do not take part in the decision. Before I begin to talk about what I had planned, I would like to say that this afternoon I noted that a knife attack had been carried out at a secondary school in southern Stockholm. It was with sadness that I read the article, and I hope that we can reverse this very sad development. Sweden has one of the world's most generous study funding systems, and our view is that we should retain a very generous system. The means of study enable all social classes to study at the university, where even people from the working class can obtain any education they want. It is only your own commitment and ability that sets limits. That's the way it should be, we think. That is how we want it, and we will never advocate any other system. The study system not only serves the individual, but also serves society as a whole. Our community building requires trained and competent labour to enable companies and institutions in the service of society to have access to the right skills. Without educated people who are offered the opportunity for doctoral studies and research, both inventions and innovations would shine with their absence. Without enough trained teachers, we would not be able to fill vacancies in primary schools, and without trained doctors – who today come from all walks of life – care would collapse. In fact, it is to a large extent a well-developed education system, of course, and the associated financing system for students, which separates an advanced industrial country from a developing country. Here, however, I would like to stress the importance of maintaining – or preferably increasing – the quality of our training programmes. It is not enough for the students to present a diploma to get a nice figure to compare with in the statistics, but the diploma must also be a proof of actual knowledge of the individual and society will develop according to what I said earlier. If we have the highest proportion of graduates per capita in the EU, but the quality of education is below the average, we are in any case losers. All citizens become losers in the long term. Not everyone needs and should not attend theoretical higher education. There is a great lack of skilled people in certain areas, and it is equally important that we provide the labour market with skills in more practical vocational training. The Swedish Democrats want to abolish the start-up aid. The reasons for this are partly principled, we can say – we do not want to allow a group to have different conditions than other students have. It's unfair, and we think it's causing problems in the long term. In addition, we are extremely doubtful as to whether this reform will increase the motivation of the intended group. To cope with demanding higher education requires a completely different motivation from the one that would be aroused for a couple of years to receive a grant instead of a loan. On the other hand, we want the highest number of years of loans to be extended precisely for the intended group, which would then have the same conditions as the other groups. Finally, Madam President, we want to introduce an additional contribution for those who choose to study in training courses where there is an explicit shortage of labour. The grant is not intended to benefit individuals who attend the training courses, but to meet society's needs for skilled labour in certain shortages. If we do not take advantage of the need for labour in areas where there is a shortage, society will suffer damage. That is why we want to introduce this contribution, which may also be seen as unfair by someone.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1294	Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party do not take part in the decision but instead have a specific opinion to which we refer. We're going to discuss student grants. No matter who you are, where you come from or what parents you have, you should have good opportunities in Sweden. Jobs are the most important prerequisite for breaking the alienation that we see emerging throughout the country and making people stronger in society. Therefore, the possibility of studying and training is an important issue for the Center Party, regardless of the background. The education premium needs to be strengthened, and jobs and education need to pay better. A generous study aid system, which we will be discussing today, is part of it. Unfortunately, it seems to be the only solution the government points to. Today, four out of ten higher education programmes do not pay off. In addition, the government has reduced the education premium by increasing taxes on labour and marginal taxes. On behalf of the Center Party, we want it to be exactly the opposite. We want it to pay more to train, to work and to further train. That is why we have put forward proposals to reduce the tax burden on low incomes and average incomes. But we also want to reduce marginal taxes so that the education premium is strengthened and it pays better to learn. Madam President, I would like In addition, we think it is important that we have an increased throughput in higher education and that we have a more flexible study funding system that is adapted to the challenges facing us in the future. There will be a need for further education later in life, and needs to be met and the training needed most. For various reasons, some people need to be able to study at a lower rate of study, for example if they have attended a secondary school or are on part-time sick leave. These are important factors to have with you; it must be more flexible in meeting them and in creating a longer working life, which is so important. I would like to highlight the proposal we have in the report for young people with disabilities. Young people who, due to a disability, have not completed upper secondary school in the summer of their 19th birthday are automatically paid an activity allowance today. In practice, it acts as an early retirement. We can see that labour market participation is very low for people with disabilities and that the automatic phasing-in of a benefit system contributes to the high thresholds entering the labour market for this group. We in the Center Party believe that young people who receive extended schooling should be offered student support with increased amounts instead of being placed directly in benefit dependency. Together with access to relevant study assistance and the possibility of post-secondary education, the incentive to move on to work increases, creating more equal opportunities with other students. That is why the directive presented by the government today is welcome with regard to the possibility of post-secondary studies for those who have attended secondary school, among other things. It is a disservice to place young people in benefit dependency and with activity compensation. Madam President, I would like Incentives are an important part of the study aid system. From the Center Party we point to two incentives which we want to highlight and which we have included in our draft budget. One is about our proposal that participants in Teach for Sweden should be given the opportunity to write off student loans in order for more people to seek out this way and get this opportunity for the teaching profession. The second thing that I would like to highlight in terms of incentives for studies is our proposal, which is also included in the Rural Committee's report on enabling student debt cancellation for people who study in higher education and then move to a sparsely populated area. Basically, there are few systems that are as urbanised as the study aid system. It drives people to colleges that are densely populated, and this is how we can create opportunities to cope with skills supply even in sparsely populated areas. Madam President, I would like Finally, the flexibility of the study aid system really needs to be reviewed, especially at a time when people need to work longer and at a time when we are facing new challenges of digitalisation and automation. This places new demands on education systems but also on student funding systems. Therefore, the Center Party has presented a proposal to enable student loans higher up in the ages. It is an important principle to enable people both to be able to further train themselves and to retrain themselves higher up to the age in order to meet the demand on the labour market for the training they need. Unfortunately, what we can see from the government so far and from what we are debating today is a focus on increasing the study grant. It's the only solution to the government. We see a need for several reforms in this area. It is a question of changing the study funding system and creating flexibility in it. But it is also, and above all, a question of strengthening the education premium. It must pay better to work and train in Sweden. But then we must also be prepared to reduce taxes, which the government unfortunately does not. With this, I would like to thank the President and the committee for the floor and wish them a Merry Christmas.
i-QMvbekmfXWAkYJWSmtvwCf	Madam President, I would like Hjalmar Oskar Ahlberg, his name was so – he was the very first in Sweden to receive state funding for studies. The year was 1919. He lived in Stenbrohult in Småland. He studied as a folk school teacher and later became a folk school inspector. To facilitate and make this possible, he received student funds from the state totalling SEK 2,200. That says quite a lot about Swedish history and about the importance of having a functioning study funding system to strengthen the country but also to ensure that we can use the resources available in the country and the resources available in all people to develop, grow and take responsibility. Hjalmar Oskar Ahlberg might not have had the opportunity to become a folk school teacher and inspector if he had not had this chance. This is how student funds should work; they should give more people the chance to learn in higher education, and they should give more opportunities to see opportunities for social mobility and not stay where they were born. Study funds should give more people the chance to surprise themselves and others and become something other than what is expected of one in one's immediate surroundings. Madam President, I would like The means of study are one of the biggest investments made in life, at least at an early age. Then this is the first major investment you make in the form of a loan. An investment is also made in spending quite a lot of time studying for a few years. It is therefore crucial that you feel that you are being disposed of for the efforts you are making. It can happen in different ways, but it is vital that you get the feeling that what you do is beneficial for yourself and for others. It's a big investment in both time and resources. It is important to broaden recruitment, and you can do it in so many different ways. But there are basically three key ingredients. One is that you have to feel that knowledge is important. There must be a culture in society that says that knowledge is important and that it is essential that you study and take advantage of your opportunities. There must also be a feeling in the individual who says: I can do this. I can really manage to train as a folk school teacher, as Hjalmar Oskar Ahlberg did. In addition to the importance of knowledge and the fact that you feel that you can handle it, you must also think that you get something important for yourself when you make this big investment. That's the third. It can be purely technical – that we have a tax system that allows you to keep a little more of what you earn. But it can also be in some other way, as part of society's assessment of making this investment. Otherwise, fewer will do it, and fewer will do the social journey that it means to study at college and university. Of course, as Ida Drougge used to be, we will see a development where more and more people will have to change in the middle of life. Then the entire study funding system must also be adapted to the needs that will exist. The funny thing is that we really have no idea what needs will exist, and therefore a certain flexibility is required in the system so that the individual can make the assessment himself but also in order for society to be able to evaluate what will be needed in the coming years. The Liberals have presented a draft budget in areas which are partly different from those of the government. One big difference is that we do not expand as strongly in all these systems as the government does – for two reasons, one might say. This is partly because we are at the peak of a boom at the moment, and it is when we are in recession that the systems are to be expanded. Rather, when it is booming, try to ensure that as many people as possible are close to the labour market to get into it. They're not supposed to hide in training. It is even worse if education is of low quality. If an individual who finds it difficult to enter the labour market when the labour market is at its hottest is locked into an education that is also of low quality, that individual misses the chance to enter. Then you come out of education when the labour market is cooler. And then the establishment has been further shifted. It is therefore important to adapt the transition possibilities to the economic situation. The most important thing is to ensure that education is of high quality. A country has limited resources. If systems are to be further expanded when resources are already strained, it will of course be difficult to maintain quality. We also see that training programmes are also being developed in such a way that they are unable to meet the quality requirements. They are being expanded, and yet the places are not being occupied. The training of teachers is being expanded and the requirements for knowledge and thus the quality of education are being reduced. It is central for a government to strike that balance in this policy area. In one area, we make an exception and propose more university of applied sciences. Because it is a form of education that is close to the labour market, and we know that those who go there get jobs quite soon after they have completed the training. We propose to introduce a new vocational school. We propose premiums for special teachers and special educators and some subject teachers where there is a particular shortage. An important difference between us and the government is that, as Fredrik Christensson said earlier, we are thinking about how young people with disabilities can get further into the labour market and support themselves but also move forward in the education system. Then it is quite important that you go from activity compensation to study grants. Madam President, I would like We're not taking part in the decision. Our draft budget has fallen. However, I refer to our particular opinion.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1323	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats also have a special opinion in the report, and we are not taking part in the decision. Education and training are crucial for a good society and for people's personal development. Education and training must also meet the labour market's needs for a well-trained workforce. In Sweden, everyone should be able to realize their dreams as far as possible. We want everyone to have access to an education, and in Sweden we have a unique system in that it is free of charge to study. But study time is associated with living expenses. Sweden also has a unique system to protect and be proud of. By reducing economic barriers, all citizens must have access to education regardless of the family situation they come from. Both the grant part and the loan part of the student grant are important elements for us to be able to conduct an effective education policy. All parts of the study grant, i.e. study grants during upper secondary school studies, grants for pupils with disabilities, apprenticeships and student funding with grant and loan part, will help to equalise the financial conditions of individuals and between groups in society. Madam President, I would like Today, study funding is available for a maximum of six years, 240 weeks, and there is a limit to how old you get to get study funding. The grant part can be obtained until the age of 56, but the right to borrow is limited from the age of 47. Many have felt that the need for further education and training is increasing at a time when we are getting older and are expected to work higher and older. It should therefore be reasonable to also raise the age in order to be able to take out student loans. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the possibility of taking student loans be raised, by a further three years, to the age of 50. To this we have set aside funds in our budget. Limiting studies to a period of six years may, in some individual cases, be counterproductive if it results in students having to interrupt important courses at advanced level because the funding is impossible. The Christian Democrats believe that the deadlines for post-secondary studies should be better adapted to the length of education. We believe that some should be able to obtain study funding for longer than today in order to increase the momentum for well-planned and effective studies. We also want to make changes at the other end. The number of months of study funding to which there should be a general right should be fewer than today. In concrete terms, this means that university and university students must have a general right to study funding for four years. Thereafter, a person wishing to obtain more means of study must be able to present either a degree from a minimum of three years of education, or at least three years of completed studies in an education aimed at a degree of at least three and a half years of full-time education. With this proposal, it will not be as much possible today to study only single-minded courses at a lower level, sometimes a little negatively called hobby courses, or to switch between different courses. But it still leaves room for error choices and other delays up to a year. Madam President, I would like To safeguard a generous system, the goal must be for as many people as possible to repay their student loans. It is important for our economy, and it is important that the state is the norm in this area. You can look at the particular reasons for exceptions, but the principle must be that you pay back your loans. More and more older people are well placed for a longer working life. In order for welfare to be financed in the long term, more people also need to work longer. Then it is reasonable that those who start studying in the future will have to pay off their student loans higher than their age. Madam President, I would like Today, driving licences are often required in order to take on the jobs offered. By offering young CSN loans for driving licences, the risk of young people giving up driving licences is reduced due to their economy. The Christian Democrats, like the government, therefore want to enable CSN loans for driving licence studies at a competent traffic school. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the amount of the allowance, that is to say the amount you can earn at the same time as you get student funding. The free amount limits students to getting the work experience that future employers are looking for. It's very unfortunate. A abolished free amount would also enable students to borrow less, and thus get lower debts after graduation. The main problem for many young people when it comes to entering the labour market today is that they have no work experience. A combination of work and studies strengthens the link with the labour market. In addition, the free amount limits the student's own decision on how much time and capacity he has to work alongside the studies. The amount of the exemption should therefore be completely abolished. Madam President, I would like Some improvements have been made to the student social situation, such as the child allowance. But there is much more to be done in this area. The condition for applying for an additional supplement is that the taxable income of the family does not exceed 125 000 in a full year. This level has remained still for a long time. That is why we Christian Democrats want to review the way in which the additional supplement can be given and how the support relates to other support in improving support for financially vulnerable children and families.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1336	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating student aid. Student aid in the form of grants and loans is a major part of education policy. The support will act as a recruitment for both women and men, thereby contributing to a high level of participation in education and training. It will smooth out differences between individuals and groups in the population and contribute to greater social justice. Through equal opportunities, the study support system contributes to strengthening our community building with more knowledge, more competence and more education. Education is crucial for creating active citizens in society, for individual development and labour market prospects and for the functioning of the labour market and for contributing to society's skills supply and Swedish welfare. The aid should of course have a good effect on the national economy. And there are now a number of positive proposals. The situation of students is at the heart of several of the proposals dealt with in this report. The student grant part will be increased by about SEK 300 from 1 July 2018 to the joy of the country's students. But the Center Party says no to the increase, and the Liberals and Christian Democrats want to put the increase on the loan part and thus make the students become even more indebted. Security in the economy is important for students and now the government is taking measures to increase that security. The government introduces an opportunity for students to be on part-time sick leave. That possibility does not exist today. You get a full-time allowance even if you are on sick leave on a part-time basis. Then you have a certain degree of security. You have the confidence that you can study in half time despite illness. It also promotes more effective studies and increased throughput. This security for students doesn't want the Center to give. You say no to the proposal. Next year it will be possible to take student loans to finance a B driver's license. The loan is intended to finance driving licence training at approved transport schools and is directed in a first step to people between 18 and 47 years of age. In 2019, the Government intends to extend the possibility also to young people aged 19 to 20 who have completed upper secondary education. This is what the Center Party and the Liberals say no to. Madam President, I would like The knowledge transfer that is now being carried out includes places in adult education, regional vocational studies, university of applied sciences, folkhögskolan and university. Up to 2021, it is proposed to extend the knowledge lift to approximately 93 000 places. Study places and student support reflect the view of what is important for raising a society. In order to lift a society, the business community must have access to well-educated people with special skills and skills. Policies must meet the needs of the business community for properly trained workers. But it is not only the needs of the business community that are met by many educational places of different kinds, but also society's need for well-educated people who, through well-paid jobs, generate higher tax revenues, which in turn contribute to the renovation and development of Swedish welfare. It is all connected: training places, business needs, tax revenues for the individual and the needs and development of society. So it is not simple jobs that we need. It becomes very clear in politics how one chooses to prioritise. The grant for student support shows very clearly what ambitions, or lack of ambition, the parties have for social development. In the presentation memorandum we can read that the Liberals in their proposal invest SEK 3.9 billion less in student funding. The Christian Democrats have reduced the funding by 3.8 billion. The Center Party has reduced the funding by 11⁄2 billion. The Moderates have reduced the funding by 1.4 billion. So the Alliance parties do not want to invest in education and study places in the way that the Social Democrats do. With a labour market that today cannot provide services because companies do not find anyone with the right education and skills, it becomes very clear to the Social Democrats what needs to be done. You have to invest in studies. The Social Democrats are responsible for a social system in which more people are given the opportunity to study in order to match the jobs available in the labour market. In this way, everyone will be the winners – the individual, the business community and society. I therefore support the proposal made by the Committee on Education and Training in the report.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1353	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that, as far as the moderate budget is concerned, we fully agree with the government on the number of seats. We match them exactly. Vocational studies and universities of applied sciences are expanded with places that are needed and become available. The money goes to what is intended and where it gives effect. People come out to work. It helps to increase our competitiveness and growth. It's good in every way. There's a deal. We do not match your proposal to expand places at colleges and universities. In fact, I think that we in this House, which have been working together on these issues on a daily basis for three years, can keep us at a serious level. We all know the facts ahead. Then we should be honest about saying that 40% of the places the government wants to expand will not happen. For two weeks we had a draw in the Education Committee of the Swedish National Audit Office when they presented this. Then I wonder how Lena Emilsson can stand in the speaker's chair and say that this extension shows the Government's ambition in the area of higher education and university. I would like an answer to the question: how does that show your ambition?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1356	Mr President, I would like to You set up training places that were not permanent but limited in time. Of course we have to fill the void that you left behind. That is also what has taken time. But we have a plan for how to develop the education system in the future. It is not just about universities and colleges, it is also about many other educations. It is interesting that Ida Drougge says that you want to make things easier for those in the middle of life. If you can't afford to study, you should be able to do it. But the Moderates say no to the start-up support that is aimed at that particular group. One should over 25 years, and there is no loan part in that support; it is only bidr ag that one can get for up to 50 weeks.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1358	Mr President, I would like to I find it sad that I did not get an answer to my question at all. Thus, 40 percent of the money, a total of SEK 12.3 billion, goes nowhere. They are high, and the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out that this is due to inadequate government governance. Thus, the money intended for places cannot be used for places. If something is empty, it is just that, and nothing else. On the contrary, it is normal to increase the number of study places during a recession. Hopefully, recessions are also temporary. As far as the start-up aid is concerned, we were moderates for carrying out that reform. We see that, unfortunately, it is needed in view of how badly the Public Employment Service operates today. Now that we are presenting our budget, we have other proposals as to where the labour market trainings under the Employment Service should be, how the funds should work and where they should be located. We would prefer to see them put on the job force and that they are municipalised while changing the entire work of the Employment Service. Then we do not need study start-up support in our budget. But with the employment agency you want, you need it. It is therefore not really part of this debate.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1363	Mr President, I would like to Is the EUR 12 billion referred to as the money that universities spend high and do not take advantage of?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1364	Universities and colleges are autonomous. It can be a little difficult for the government to point with the whole hand and say that the money should be used for one or the other. With regard to the start-up aid, I find it very strange that you first say yes when the report is being discussed in plenary and that one year later you are against it. At some point, you have to decide what you want. I think the proposal is very good, because it is really needed. It has turned out that there are many people who need some help getting into studies. With a little push and a little help with the funding during the first year, they get that opportunity. Investing in recession and not in boom also seems a little strange. An education system should be developed so that it has a steady flow over time. It should not be a twitchy system in which you do not know if you will get any seats in the next budget or during the next parliamentary term. It's got to be safe and steady. It is also important to train people for the jobs that are available but for which people do not have the skills.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1369	Mr President, I would like to It is good that clear differences are highlighted, including in this area. Sometimes when you debate student aid, education policy or politics in general, when you listen to the Social Democrats, you can easily believe that expensive politics is the same as good politics. I do not share this view. We must face the societal challenges that we see. In my speech, I pointed out some of these elements. A major challenge for higher education today is that four out of ten courses do not pay off. If you start studying in such an education, you risk losing your life's income. This is a major challenge for which I think we should point out and find opportunities. The second challenge that was highlighted in my speech, but which I have not heard from the government, is about opportunities to study higher up in the ages. Perhaps later in life you want to be able to further train yourself to either retain skills and be employable in the labour market or retrain yourself in order to have the opportunity to find a new job. In the report we are discussing today, the Center Party has put forward proposals to make this possible. People should be able to study higher up in their ages. Therefore, we want to change the age limits for when you can take student loans. My first question to Lena Emilsson is: Why do we not see the government presenting any such proposals? My second question is linked to the challenge that four out of ten courses do not pay off. We present major proposals for training to pay off, which means that taxes are reduced for low and middle wage earners. We also want to reduce marginal taxes. Then it pays better to educate yourself. Why do we not see such proposals from the Social Democrats?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1376	Mr President, I would like to The fact that four out of ten training courses do not pay is more of a matter for the social partners. Some jobs – often very women-dominated – have a too poor wage development. It is not the fault of education itself, but the fact that some professions are not valued higher. This is a very important issue. Fredrik Christensson also asked about the upper age limit for taking student loans. We think it is important to pay back your student loans. Then you should not study so high up in age that you do not have the opportunity to pay this back. There are parties that advocate the removal of an age-depreciation, but I or my party do not agree with that. It would put those who are already in a bad position at a disadvantage. Women in particular are affected by this. What possibility does Fredrik Christensson think there is to pay back the student loan on a lean pension if they have not been able to pay it back until the age of 67?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1380	Mr President, I would like to Lena Emilsson says that it is the parties who set salaries in Sweden, and I share that view. But in this House we can actually choose how we tax people. We have a very high tax burden in Sweden, which of course contributes to less profitable education here compared to other countries. At best, the government does not raise this issue. In the worst case, however, the government contributes to this development by increasing taxes on labour, as we have seen during the term of office. This makes the training premium worse. In order to make education more profitable, it is also important to focus on strengthening the quality of higher education so that it becomes more attractive to those who are going to employ. This is what we will be debating tomorrow, when it is precisely about higher education. However, this is an important part together with what Ida Drougge mentioned about us spending money on higher education institutions that are not then used. I see this as extremely problematic. Now that we are going to have a longer working life, the study aid system must accompany us. You should have the opportunity to further educate yourself. This is an important issue because people should be able to work longer, above all. They should be able to change careers by reading a little more or reshaping. I see this as an extremely important precondition. We basically have an individual responsibility for this. I personally would like to have the opportunity to retrain me later in life in order to work for a long time. This applies to people on a personal level, but also from a societal perspective, people need to have the opportunity to work longer. Unfortunately, we do not see any proposals from the Social Democrats in this area.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1385	Mr President, I would like to Working higher up in the ages is a future we will face. However, it is also important to get an education when you are relatively young. You have the opportunity to change your career during your life several times with the student support system that exists. This is quite right, and it is also a very important issue because business is changing over the years. Today's system allows student loans to be taken up to the age of 56. However, we must also ensure that those who have taken out student loans have a reasonable chance of paying it back. The Social Democrats therefore do not think it needs to be adjusted in this situation.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1387	Mr President, I would like to I have two quite simple questions for the Social Democrats and the government. Neither this year nor last year does the government assess the impact of the study funding system on gender equality. I want to know why that is. My second question concerns a major and crucial social problem in Sweden. We have too few teachers and too few who seek the teaching profession. The search pressure for the teaching profession is dropping. Does the government and the Social Democrats consider that increasing the number of seats will increase the number of applicants? Or is pre-knowledge more likely to fall and dropout?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1390	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Education and Training has made demands in the evaluation of each budget. As Mr Nylander says, the aspect of equality has not been sufficiently weighed up. On the other hand, the budget looks at how the student support system has broken out in terms of gender equality, broader recruitment, age spans – you look at a lot of different parameters. This aspect is included, but I can agree that it can be further improved. The attractiveness of the teaching profession is the most important factor in getting young people to apply for education. There is massive work going on here. It started with the Teacher Salary Lift and has continued with various competence development plans. It is also about how to educate people who are almost finished and perhaps only lack something. There are many different forms of supplementary educational education, such as Teach for Sweden, to bring people into the teaching profession. Christer Nylander says that the number of applicants has not increased. In some educations it has done so, on others not. It's not a general problem. Then, in fact, quite a few return to the teaching profession after having once left it. There, of course, wage formation has an important role to play.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1394	Mr President, I would like to I highlighted this with the status of the teaching profession because one of the differences between the government's budget and our budget is that we do not expand teacher education so strongly. That is why I shall return to the question. If you have low search pressure on teacher training and increase the number of places, is it that more people are looking for teacher training just because there are more places, or are you rather in danger of being exactly the opposite – that the attractiveness is reduced due to the empty places, that the dropout is increasing and that we have more problems with increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession in the long term? I would like to hear the Social Democrats assess and clarify this issue further.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1395	Mr President, I would like to The attractiveness of the teaching profession is a very important factor in getting applicants at all. What is also extremely important is that we see what a lack we have of teachers. It is by no means right to reduce the number of training places when there is a shortage of about 50 000 teachers. That would be terrible. Investing in more places does not mean that the quality automatically gets worse. We need to invest in quality while at the same time expanding the number of places. In some way, we must meet the needs of all schools in the country.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1397	Mr President, I would like to After a day of many meetings, I sink on the couch at home and turn on the TV. There's something from the TV called Undercover Boss. It's a program where a manager goes around in his own business disguised to check how things are and what's really going on there. The program's on. Towards the end of the program, he meets some of his employees who have somehow excelled – been extra talented or done something crazy. Then he sits down with them and distributes gratuities for their efforts. Almost always they receive either their own student debt paid or basic plates that enable their children to study when they become large. Then I think proudly and gratefully of the fact that we here in Sweden are not dependent on parents with good income, gifts because we have been noticed in a TV show or any other lottery that gives the opportunity to afford to study. Mr President, I would like to Almost all young people have a dream of how life will develop. One of the ingredients involved in shaping your life is education, hopefully followed by work. For the vast majority of our young people, it is obvious to continue the step into upper secondary school after comprehensive school. Here comes the first really sharp choice. Not everyone chooses right here, but when high school is over, new insights may have emerged. The new direction in life may need to be supplemented by courses on komvux, or a whole new thought has emerged. Maybe it'll be a professional education instead. Regardless of the path a person chooses, financial security needs to be assured. In our Swedish system, parents' background should not be what affects whether you can study further. It should be possible to change careers as a single parent or in the middle of life take the step to do something new. There should be financial support if you want to go abroad to improve and gain knowledge about the everyday life of other cultures and a good understanding of yourself. Not having the opportunity for a stable economy would make this impossible for many. For many who have no financial backup from home, it is difficult. In this year's budget, the Government has adjusted both the grant part and the loan part as well as the ceiling for how much you can earn before it affects them. This will make a difference for many. The purpose of our study support is to equalize differences between individuals and groups, so that people from certain groups who otherwise would not dare to take the step dare to start studying. This is the cornerstone of everyone's opportunities for study. Student support is available in many different forms and has different target groups. One of the student grants that has been added during the year is the start-up grant. The idea of study start-up support is that municipalities should be better able to push those who are far from the labour market to resume their studies and complete their primary and secondary education. To dare to step back to the school bench can be like climbing Mount Everest. Then it can really be a help on the way to a secure and predictable economic situation. Mr President, I would like to I feel so proud that in this country we have a common view that virtually all our citizens should have the opportunity to develop and acquire education at many different levels throughout their lives. We have economic structures for studies on all levels regardless of school form. It concerns upper secondary school, vocational education, folk high school, universities and colleges. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1403	Mr President, I would like to One of the most important prerequisites for making knowledge and education accessible to more people is a good student benefit system that provides social and financial security for students. Study funds and support that can be used as a means of living are also a prerequisite for being able to study full-time. It is therefore a prerequisite for creating high-quality education. In 2006, the Left Party contributed to the introduction of a supplementary allowance for students with children. Our principled approach – then as it is now – is that the means of study is an educational policy-driven support for students' personal livelihoods. Family policy support for students with children should be allocated through the ordinary social security systems through better access to and improvement of, among other things, child benefit, parental insurance and housing allowance. After many years of the policy of injustice, where the principle of resource allocation was made from an inverse Robin Hood perspective, with tax cuts benefiting a small elite in society, it is time to redistribute resources based on the needs of all, not just a few. I am therefore proud to belong to a party that through negotiations with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, that is to say the government, has, among other things, received an initiative that gives high school students and students at higher education and universities increased levels of grants within student support.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1406	I am also proud to belong to a party that, together with the government, has produced the proposal for CSN loans for driving licences. As has been said earlier from the pulpit, driving licences are an important part of getting a job. We are now finally enabling people who are often in a difficult financial situation, i.e. students, to obtain a driving licence in order to have easier access to the labour market. In total, this means that SEK 24.4 billion from the central government budget for 2018 goes to the expenditure area. Most money, more than 16 billion, will go to student funds for students at high schools and universities. More than SEK 4 billion is spent on study aid, which includes upper secondary school students. I would like to take this opportunity to support the committee's proposal for a decision. Mr President, I would like to In order for the student benefit system to be fairer and thereby be able to counter social misrecruitment in a better way, it needs to be fundamentally redone. The Left Party's vision is to introduce a study salary so that studies are treated as work. An investment in study wages for students must in the long term be considered the only economically and socially beneficial and sustainable both for the student and for society. This would mean a greater opportunity for the student to get a good education and increase his or her ability to actively participate in society. It is in the interests of society and democracy that people are well educated and that the total mass of knowledge is increasing. Students would also have access to social security systems with a salary, and many of the social and economic problems currently faced by students would be solved. There are examples of companies doing so already today. I recently visited a company in Dalarna called Erasteel Kloster. It is one of Sweden's larger companies. What it has done is that it offers its employees just that. Employees who do not have an engineering education receive 80 per cent of their salary to study at any higher education institution they want to be able to enter and work as engineers but also in other professions. It is something that has produced results for Erasteel Monastery and something that can produce results for the whole country. I would like to take this opportunity to comment on some of the proposals and texts highlighted by the other parties. The Moderates say, "We want to increase the grant to over $200,000 per calendar year, increase the number of additional weeks of study for those aged 40 or over to 60 weeks, raise the age limit for student funds to 60 years and increase the additional loan for students with children to 5,000 SEK per month of study. Nowhere is there any suggestion to increase the contribution part of the study funds. The Swedish Democrats say, "In some respects, the Swedish Democrats want to make the system even more generous" – then the fact that it is exactly the opposite – but in other respects we think it has become generous and unfair. We want a reduction in study grants because we reduce the number of places at the folk high school (outside). 17). We also reject the proposal for support for students in the introduction programme of upper secondary school because we believe that it should be equal to study for everyone. We do not want unfair cream files for specific groups in society. If students in the introduction programme today are the students who have cream files in society, I think the Swedish Democrats live in another society. The Liberals say that the Liberals reject the government's increase in funding for 2018 within the envelope 1:2 Study funds– – – The proposal to increase the contribution part of the study funds is rejected in favour of a corresponding increase in the loan part of the study funds. It means more indebted students. This means a reduction of SEK 546 000 000 for 2018 of the grant – – – The Liberals propose that student loans taken from the beginning. 1 January 2018 shall not be available for writing off at the age of 68. ..................................................... What all these parties have in common is that if the debate had been about high wage earners, those who are at the top of society from an economic and social perspective, these texts would never have occurred. It would have said that they want to increase what they call the right of deduction for those people. When it comes to students who have a tough financial situation, people who may be poor pensioners or the rest of society who really need these benefits and that they are raised, the attitude is suddenly different. There, the Swedish Democrats join forces with the rest of the Alliance. That is also why the Swedish Democrats are not only an extreme party but a far-right party.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1418	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat has a high tail and a loud rhetoric, not least in terms of justice and injustice. Now we found out that the line between unfair crude capitalism and a just socialist society is $29 a month. The old system was unfair, but now justice is restored. Nevertheless, I would like to ask questions about student loans and salary. The Left Party wants fair cause to introduce salary instead of student loans. Where is the justice in the fact that those who train as doctors and receive very high salaries receive a student's salary to do this and do not take any loans while those who choose to go directly to work and become carers do not receive either student loans or student wages?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1420	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if Christer Nylander has missed that the Left Party is an opposition party in the Swedish Parliament. It is the only opposition party that has chosen not to stand by and whine about what in your case has deteriorated itself but rather to be involved in constructively getting through efforts that improve for people. Does this mean that the Left Party is content and that it is some kind of introduction of socialism? Yes, perhaps if you ask some of Christer Nylander's fellow party members. In this case, it is a step in the right direction. It is a question of ensuring that young people, students, who for a long time have not received an increase in the benefit part, are also allowed to benefit from our common tax money, unlike at your time in power, for example, those who are high-income earners. When it comes to salary, it is not a ready-made proposal that the Left Party has presented. Just as you yourself said, Christer Nylander, it is about a just thinking and having an idea of education that does not assume that people should have to work as much as possible in order to be able to manage because somehow it would be an incentive for people to want to study more. It is about having to work during the same time as they are studying, as many students need to do today. It is important to equate studies with work. The details will of course be discussed when the Liberals say in ten years' time that the Left Party was right.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1424	Mr President, I would like to Justice is very difficult. The proposal that the government is now putting forward together with the Left Party means that it provides increased funding to those who study as a doctor and receive a fairly high salary after having made that effort. It's very good that people want to do it. On the other hand, there will be no increased contribution to the person who chooses not to continue studying, but instead becomes a health care assistant directly. You still have to think about it. Anyone who chooses to study further at the university and does that effort will receive a salary for the effort. But it must also be seen that it is a certain investment of its own. It will not be much fairer if those who train as teachers, doctors or lawyers receive their studies fully paid by means of a study salary instead of taking out loans, while those who do not do so do not receive the allowance that the Left Party wants to give to those who study to the High Wages. Where is justice in this?
i-1989b103345f6cba-1426	Mr President, I would like to I am not so sure that Christer Nylander has read the report itself or that he is aware of the policy of the Left Party. We have not agreed with the government on salary. What we have agreed on is, among other things, an increase in the contribution part of the study funds of approximately SEK 300. It is also about 200 SEK in student grants for upper secondary school students and about CSN loans for driving licences. These are the main features of what we have agreed. When it comes to the study salary, I understand that Christer Nylander chooses to try rhetorically to remove the focus from the fact that the Liberals want to cut back. They simply want to debt young people and students instead of getting their benefit share increased – for once after decades. That's what the Liberals want. I understand that Christer Nylander, who is a very skilled rhetoricist, chooses to conduct this kind of debate in order to take the focus away from the fact. But it is in the text, and it is in your particular opinion. I call on the electorate to read there how and at what levels the Alliance wants to cut down on their wallets.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1429	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the civil committee's report No 7. It is a report which deals with motions from the general period of exercise concerning the right of association. It is legislation on different types of company and other rules that affect the area, such as auditing and accounting rules. It is important that we have legislation that provides a clear framework for entrepreneurship, how to start, what obligations and rights you have when you run a business and finally how to close down. Clear rules of the game create confidence in our Swedish companies. When everyone adheres to the rules that we have established, companies compete on equal terms. Since there are those who use companies for criminal purposes, it is also important that the laws and regulations relating to entrepreneurship, for example, counteract economic crime and create the possibility of transparency and control. Auditing and accounting is an area that we have strengthened during our term of office through the introduction of the Accounting Directive. The legislative changes implemented aim to strengthen the independence of auditors, improve the quality and provide more information in the audit report, which is of benefit to various stakeholders. At the same time, the 98% of all Swedish companies included in the category of smaller companies have received simplifications in the requirements for their financial statements – this in order to reduce the administrative burden. These legislative changes are the result of EU decisions. Our companies are operating in the EU's internal market. It is therefore important to have a similar playing field for companies to be able to compete on a level playing field. During our term of office, we have modernised the Act on Economic Associations, and soon there will be a completely new law that will be more transparent and accessible. Economic associations compete on the same market as limited liability companies. It is therefore natural for us to simplify the regulatory framework also for economic associations – it has been done in the past for limited companies. Mr President, I would like to Although the legislation concerning different forms of association is important and creates a framework within which entrepreneurship can be carried out, it is not different accounting rules or the choice of form of association that creates success stories among Swedish companies. They are, of course, created by people with ideas and commitment and through hard work. But good conditions for entrepreneurship are created by other policy decisions. This is a well-developed education system, an active labour market policy and a policy that takes responsibility for and takes initiatives to combat housing shortages. Good conditions are created through a good climate for research and development, available venture capital and support at start-up and when companies grow. A well-developed infrastructure and support for export initiatives are also policies that support entrepreneurship in Sweden. Safe people dare. Then it is also important that the security systems keep up when you take the step and start your own business. In all these areas, the Social Democratic-led government has taken the initiative, and we want to continue to create a good foundation for entrepreneurship and more jobs in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In this report there is an announcement that we from the Social Democrats do not support. We therefore have a reservation with the Green Party and the Left Party. This is about legislation that came into force in 2016. Only next year will we be able to see how it has actually taken out. It's about sustainability reporting. Large companies shall, from the financial year 2017, draw up a sustainability report. The report shall contain information on how the company works with environmental issues, social conditions, staff, respect for human rights and counter-corruption. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats in the committee believe – now I quote from the report – that sustainability reporting plays a role in increasing the availability of information on companies' sustainability efforts. Sustainability issues are thus given a more prominent role and consumers and investors are given more information about companies and their development. ..................................................... When I read it, I also read that you think that sustainability reporting is really something good. But at the same time you don't think it's something that more companies in Sweden should do. An estimated 1 600 companies are affected by the new rules. The bourgeoisie and the Swedish Democrats want to limit the number considerably, so that it is estimated that only 100 companies will do this – they already have these reports many times today in their annual reports. In this respect, I believe that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are backward. We know that sustainability is becoming increasingly important for citizens and consumers and for investors in companies but also for our society. By ensuring that more people are obliged to report on sustainability than required by the EU directive, we hope that these issues will come up on company agendas to a greater extent. We went further than the directive required because we wanted to drive forward the development and open the eyes of those companies that did not give priority to these issues in the past. I am convinced that reporting creates new approaches and ways of working for several of our large companies when sustainability is something that is expected to work with. If with this we can further strengthen our Sweden brand and when what is made in Sweden is actually more sustainable, I think we will increase our competitiveness, with the result that more jobs can be created. But for the bourgeois parties in the Swedish parliament, it is not appropriate to go ahead. They do not even want to wait for the evaluation promised by the government when the requirements were introduced. Even in the first year's effects, we will not be able to look at whether we are going to follow the citizens' proposals. We do not know what reactions it creates for companies, investors and customers or how much costs actually are – this was something that was requested during the debate in view of the introduction of the requirements. However, I look forward with interest to the follow-up to the law that the government promised. With this, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 1.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1445	Mr President, I would like to A large part of Sweden's welfare system and infrastructure is financed by taxes and charges. Economic crime does not normally affect a victim of crime, such as a burglary or an assault. Over the years, many have called ecocrimes victimless crimes, but the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency, on the contrary, believes that the victims of ecocrimes are numerous. The whole of society and all citizens are affected when people and businesses withhold taxes and charges or provide money from, for example, the welfare system to which they are not entitled. Economic crime also affects all serious entrepreneurs by subjecting them to unfair competition. – –– Where control systems are not satisfactory, public confidence and confidence in the authorities are at risk of being eroded. Whether perceived or de facto lack of control by public authorities, this affects confidence in the state and risks reducing the willingness to pay taxes in the long term. If it is perceived as easy to abuse systems, it may also result in more people providing incorrect information to the authorities in order to obtain compensation to which they are not entitled. Unsatisfactory control systems also result in late detection of crime and that the gains have already been invested in other crime or consumed. ..................................................... What I read now is a quote from the Swedish Economic Crime Authority's situation picture on financial crime in Sweden 2016. The Swedish National Audit Office also has ongoing work to review the abolition of audit obligations for smaller limited liability companies. According to planning, the review will be published during the month of December, but there is already a sentence on the Swedish National Audit Office's website under the heading ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The abolition of audit obligations for small limited liability companies, carried out in 2010, has contributed to an increase in financial crime. The report published by the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority in June 2016 shows that almost half of the companies audited were deemed to have been used as a crime tool. The companies that have chosen not to have a report are also over-represented in terms of planned financial crime. It is mainly the lack of transparency that makes these companies a crime tool. It is basically the same question formulation, the same concern for welfare, the same analysis, the same conclusions and similar measures as we propose in our motion as described by the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency in its 2016 report. It is a bit unfortunate that our motion was discussed before the Swedish National Audit Office's review report on the abolition of audit obligations for smaller limited liability companies. But everything already shows that there is every reason to reintroduce an audit obligation as a crime prevention measure and also to consider how it should be designed appropriately. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1455	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today, as has been said, an association law report which contains a number of different motions. I thought, above all, on behalf of the Alliance, of focusing on the issue of sustainability reporting and how it should be designed. When you listen to the Social Democrats in this debate, you can easily get the impression that this is a reform that is requested by all companies and which will also lead to the creation of new jobs and that through the introduction of sustainability reporting requirements by definition, it will be better for these companies. That's somewhere a pretty false logic. What is at the heart of the whole market economy is, of course, that companies automatically choose to make use of what creates added value for them. It is very rarely the case that we politicians can impose solutions on companies that, by definition, make companies succeed better in the market economy. So I think it is a somewhat dishonest argument in the debate to stand and say that we will see more companies with a thriving economy as long as we politicians lead the way and face this kind of sustainability reporting requirements. The fact is that what we do here in the Swedish parliament when we make demands on sustainability reporting is to impose costs on these companies. It is clear that there are a number of consultants who rejoice that we are imposing these costs on companies, but we also have to ask what the consequences are on the last line. A number of industry organisations among companies that are now forced to report sustainability make the assessment that such sustainability reporting can cost up to SEK 1 million for a large company. It's money that has to be taken from somewhere, because it doesn't come out of thin air. If it were the case that sustainability reporting by definition created added value for companies, all companies would already be engaged in this. This does not mean that sustainability reporting cannot be good or necessary in any context. However, from a competitiveness point of view, the question must also be asked: Why are we in Sweden so terribly good – or rather bad – at implementing EU legislation in that we constantly want to complicate everything one lap extra when we are going to implement EU legislation? This means that Swedish companies constantly get a bigger set of rules to relate to. We thus create a greater cost-mass – an administrative cost-mass – for companies. Rule-simplification – and to say that we should devote ourselves to this – is a word of fashion across the whole political spectrum, I would say. At the same time, we are seeing how the government parties in the Swedish Parliament stand and argue for the age of rule, or to introduce more far-reaching rules for companies than the EU is actually forcing us to do. It creates a competitive disadvantage for these companies, which are then forced to engage in this. It is clearly a competitive disadvantage – if it were not, it would, in a market economy, be already in place. Therefore, our view is that there can certainly be a point in sustainability reporting and what is being demanded in this context, but we should certainly not go beyond what this European directive requires. If we do that, we tie rice to our own backs and complicate it for Swedish companies more than necessary. With this in mind, we hope, of course, that the government will come back as soon as possible with legislation that actually reflects what the European directive requires, rather than standing here beating its chest and saying that it simplifies and creates more jobs with its policies. This is being done at the same time as making it difficult for a large number of Swedish companies where this can hardly be said to be an appropriate requirement in relation to the size of the companies.
i-1989b103345f6cba-1467	Mr President, I would like to Sustainability reporting we wanted Swedish democrats to reject in its entirety when it was introduced. The reason is simple; it creates forced unnecessary bureaucracy. It is bureaucracy with highly questionable benefits for the company and customers. If a company sees reporting as an excellent tool, it can be used without coercion. There is no obstacle for a company to follow up its activities in any way it wishes. On the other hand, reporting is a politically imposed imposition with a fundamental political agenda. Companies that, for example, do not strive for gender balance or to increase the proportion of foreign born in the company should be ashamed. Sustainability reporting, however, misses its purpose. Gender balance is used here as a measure of equality, despite the fact that equality is about conduct and respect between the sexes and not primarily about representation. Mr President, I would like to My municipality of residence Örkelljunga, like most municipalities, has a larger proportion of women than men employed. Some departments in the municipality have more than 80 percent women. Does this mean that the men employed in those departments are oppressed or not equal to the women employed? It may of course be that men employed in my municipality of residence are not equal to women, but that is not something you can know based on the proportion of women or men who are employed. A company is not equal because there are as many women as men employed. It really does not say anything about how gender equality is doing. Gender equality is about something else. If you want to create equality, you need to build a corporate culture that respects each individual and sees the strengths of having different origins and different experiences. A successful corporate culture lifts each individual and takes advantage of the individual's knowledge at a higher level. A successful corporate culture makes people grow and develop in the workplace. A successful corporate culture finds strengths in people's different experiences and benefits from them in a constructive way for the benefit of both the company and the individual. Mr President, I would like to The registration of gender and country of birth in a document is not the same as a successful corporate culture. Instead, it is unnecessary bureaucracy created by ignorant politicians who believe that documents and papers are the solution to all problems. It is politicians who believe that corporate culture is built with the help of bureaucratic charges and the division of individuals into different trade unions. I don't believe in the division of people into compartments where all the compartments should be adequately filled. Give companies the freedom to build their own business and culture without the need for increased bureaucracy and unnecessary reports. We do not need companies to create more documents. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats therefore support the committee proposal that is now on the table, which means that as few companies as possible will be affected – although we would prefer not to see any company hit at all. I support the committee's proposal.
