i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-0	Mr President, I would like to As the first speaker, but also as a Swedish delegation leader in the Nordic Council, let me thank those parliamentary committees who, through interest and commitment, participate in our important joint work! The Swedish delegation is extremely active, I can confirm to Mr President. It is active in the various committees, in the opinion-forming work and in the speaker's chair at our sessions. A united thanks across party and block borders! One of the areas that must be prioritised in Nordic cooperation is to eliminate border barriers in every way – the bumblings in the terrain that prevent people from being able to work, study, enjoy culture or find someone to love in a Nordic country other than their own. In line with increased exchange, we discover how rules and regulations clash with each other, make it more difficult and sometimes even prevent. Attempts are being made to remove border barriers, and this must be done on a continuous basis. Not least in the context of new legislation or when EU directives are to be applied in the different countries, harmonisation should be the natural thing. The following question that we, as parliamentarians, should ask is: how does this proposal, this legislation or this directive affect Nordic integration? Nordic benefit must be the theme. Then, Mr President, it is difficult not to touch upon the identity and border controls that have been introduced and how they have come to affect the Öresund region. The stream of people to the Nordic countries, and especially to Sweden, reached its peak in 2015, when more than 160 000 came to our country to seek asylum. As a result, we had to introduce border and ID controls in order not to completely collapse our reception. On the part of the Social Democrats, there has been hesitation and a hating. Thanks to the move of the Moderates, action has been taken. One proposal that could well have been supported was the Danish proposal to coordinate the controls of the Nordic countries and try to locate them at the Danish-German border. The Nordic countries have been subjected to a stress test. Unfortunately, the conclusions that can be drawn show that there is much to be learned and much to be lost. The government has not shown leadership. Mr President, I would like to In connection with the Nordic Council session in Copenhagen, my party leader Anna Kinberg Batra and I wrote a debate article that highlighted security issues and specifically Nord Stream 2 as of great importance to the Nordic region. Fortunately, these two important themes were also marked by much of the debate and meetings during the week 44 session last year. Security issues have become increasingly important in the work of the Nordic Council in recent years, as the world has become more worried. The situation in our neighbourhood has deteriorated as Russia has become increasingly aggressive and authoritarian. In addition to the annexation of Crimea and the warfare in Ukraine, we have seen the deployment of Iscander robots in Kaliningrad and the relocation of two corvettes, capable of carrying nuclear weapons, to the Baltic Sea. One of the largest submarines to carry nuclear weapons is now entering the Baltic Sea. Mr President, I would like to A new impaired normal image has been established. In the light of this, it is also natural to talk about the need for Swedish NATO membership, something that is often affected precisely in the Nordic talks. In both Sweden and Finland, the value of membership is discussed. In Finland, so-called White Papers on security and defence policy have been developed at government level. A specific NATO study has been carried out. As part of the 2015 defence agreement, Ambassador Krister Bringéus was given the task of investigating Sweden's defence and security cooperation and membership, including NATO. Last September the report was presented. It received much praise for being both solid and well - written. Together with the Chairman of the Defence Committee in Finland, Ilkka Kanerva, we launched two ideas that Sweden and Finland should have these reports analysed together to see if there are conditions for a roadmap forward. The defence and security situation in the Baltic Sea region is divided. NATO membership is a reasonable step to take. But the Social Democrats have made every effort to distance themselves from Bringéus's investigation. Instead of reading and learning, they have ducked. Neither is there any evidence of leadership. Mr President, I would like to The group of Moderates in the Nordic Council has, on Swedish initiative, made a proposal that the Nordic governments should critically examine the planned Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines from environmental, security, defence and foreign policy aspects. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats, and also the middle group, have voted against this. The left-green group, on the other hand, was in favour of it. One thing is what you say in public, Mr President, but it is quite different how you act when you really have the chance. You didn't take that chance. Nord Stream 2 is a project that, if it becomes a reality, increases dependence on Russian gas in Europe, which goes against the principles of the EU Energy Union to reduce dependence on a supplier. It is wrong, in today's deteriorating security situation, to give Russia further opportunities to use the supply of energy as a political lever. Europe does not need more Russian gas, but less. Unfortunately, the Swedish Government has not acted resolutely in relation to Nord Stream 2. In March 2016, the government could have acted by signing a letter from several EU countries to the European Commission. The letter called for action to be taken against the construction of the gas pipelines. The Promised Government did not take this opportunity, but refused to sign, without preparing the case with the Ministry of Defence or consulting the opposition. It was another missed chance. Nordic cooperation has an important role to play in that we like-minded states in northern Europe can gather around good proposals that we can run jointly in other international fora, such as the EU and the UN. Not least, a Nordic consensus is important in EU cooperation in the wake of the UK's forthcoming withdrawal. It is also particularly important to develop cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries, both on the government side and on the parliamentary side. We in the Nordic and Baltic countries share history, culture and values. There is every reason to make this visible. We would need a government that shows leadership – in the Nordic region, in the Baltic Sea region and in Europe. We don't. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by pointing out a completely different area: nordic fire. We will be proud of how the Nordic region and our part of the world are perceived and appreciated. We are involved in making a mark, not least through culture. Television series like the Bron and Skam have probably done more to connect northerners than ever so many proclamations, festive speeches and parliamentary speeches. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of Amendment No 9 under paragraph 4, Nordic cooperation in defence. I would like to conclude in the same way that I started: with a big and warm thanks to the Swedish delegation in the Nordic Council for activities and work in 2016.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-17	Mr President, I would like to I agree with what Mr Wallmark, chairman of the Swedish delegation, said about a good and constructive spirit of cooperation and cooperation in the Swedish delegation within the Nordic Council. We are all doing a very constructive job there, I would say. Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Nordic cooperation. We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only call for approval for Nos 2 and 10. In our northern hemisphere, in the northernmost of Europe, the Nordic countries form a family with deep relationships and common points of reference. The Nordic region is in the order of the world's tenth largest economy. Our neighbours are some of our most important trading partners and we are theirs. The Nordic countries are the Nordic model, the common cultural expressions and cross-border cooperation. The Nordic region is the Scandinavian language understanding and common values around the welfare state and social safety nets. The Nordic countries are common history and cultural heritage, but also vibrant cross-border labour market regions and voluntary exchange of ideas today. Nordic cooperation is in many respects stronger and clearer on the wallpaper than in many years. In an uncertain world, we face new trials but also exuberant opportunities. More and more voices are being raised about a Nordic Union or federal state, or at least a greatly deepened Nordic cooperation. We have both potential and reason to strive for stronger intergovernmental Nordic cooperation and a weaker supranational EU. The time of the North is now. Mr President, I would like to The Government describes that in 2016 the world was characterised by nationalist and protectionist currents, compared with 2015 which was characterized by bilateral collaborations on green transition and climate. We agree with the Government's view that Nordic cooperation is more important than ever before. On the other hand, we do not believe that democratic votes for freedom and independence are cause for concern. It is not in the light of these events that we advocate stronger Nordic cooperation. We believe that defence and security cooperation and Nordic cultural cooperation should be a priority in Nordic cooperation. In an unsettled situation in Eastern Europe and not least the Baltic Sea region, it is of great importance that we deepen and strengthen Nordic defence and security cooperation. A Nordic cultural collaboration with breadth and excellence on its part is necessary to nurture and strengthen the Nordic cultural community, trust and identity. The Nordic region has long been a common market for goods, services and capital, but the regulations are largely still designed based on citizens and companies moving within the same Nordic country. The removal of unnecessary border barriers and the prevention of the emergence of new barriers is a high priority objective in Nordic cooperation. The Swedish Democrats welcome the efforts to remove unnecessary barriers in our Nordic community. Working to remove barriers that hamper cross-border employment, growth, education and the tourism industry is positive, and the areas of intervention of the Border Barriers Council are important for Nordic integration. At the same time, from our point of view, it is essential to always balance the removal of border barriers with national control, national self-determination and the principle of subsidiarity. In addition, for the removal of border barriers to work, it is essential that the Nordic countries know their trust in each other and that external border controls vis-à-vis Europe and the world function satisfactorily. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. The SD early welcomed Denmark's announcement that it was considering long-term border controls vis-à-vis Germany. With this, the Nordic countries continue to have an opportunity to work towards a common Nordic strategy for a long-term joint Nordic border guard. It is a Nordic external border where we take responsibility for the Nordic region through shared resources in a situation where the EU's external border has not been reliable. With a common Nordic external border control, we achieve many advantages: order and order in a troubled time, relief for individual countries and authorities, deeper cooperation for real and an opportunity to abolish our national border controls internally for good mobility within the Nordic region, both for border commuters as well as for companies and trade exchanges. We would have liked the government to continue to pursue this issue and to work towards removing the obstacles to such cooperation. The Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that the issue of radicalisation, terrorism and the worrying trend towards young people travelling in the Nordic countries to participate in terrorist activities in various respects are on the agenda of Nordic cooperation. When more and more people in Nordic countries are radicalized, choose to support terrorism, either through activities within the Nordic region and Europe or by travelling beyond Europe's borders, increased cooperation between the Nordic countries is required. It is important that each country takes its own responsibility and implements the necessary legislative changes to stop terrorism and terrorist travel. The joint efforts to prevent violent extremism are also central in this context. At the same time, I am convinced that there is scope for continued and enhanced cooperation between our Nordic countries to streamline the work. We believe that, on the one hand, we must counteract the development of radicalisation among young people in segregated areas, and, on the other hand, we must work to ensure that those who travel from the Nordic countries in order to join terrorist organisations do not have the opportunity to travel back to the Nordic countries without consequences. This is important from several perspectives, partly in order not to further contribute to destabilising the region in Syria and Iraq in particular, partly in order to alleviate the human suffering that is going on, partly in order to safeguard the security of the Nordic countries and to reduce the risk of terrorist crimes in Sweden and the rest of the world. Within the framework of Nordic cooperation, it has decided to collaborate on the integration of new arrivals. It may be commendable if in a constructive direction it can contribute to new arrivals becoming part of the Nordic cultural, language and community community. At the same time, SD believes that the budget's integration line is not sufficiently clearly defined, and since the investment is so substantial, we ask for a clearer long-term description of how the work is to be carried out and what goals are to be achieved. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic region is a strong brand in the world and is seen as both a politically stable region, a region with long-term democracy and a region interesting to visit. The Swedish Democrats therefore welcome the cultural initiative in London in 2017 on international profiling and positioning that builds on the experience of Nordic Cool. Not least, it is important based on the aim of increasing interest in the Nordic region as a destination and trading partner and our ability to market resources that cannot be relocated. Developments in Russia and the Baltic States and the limited presence in Russia are worrying but must not mean a deterioration of the monitoring of Nordic interests and presence in that part of the Baltic region and in the Baltic states with which we have – as has been said earlier – long-term and significant cooperation. For this reason, the Government of the Nordic Council of Ministers should look at how to further strengthen the presence and cooperation in the Baltic countries while the situation in Russia looks as it does. It is gratifying that steps have been taken along the way. The common history of the Nordic countries goes a long way back, and from each epoch lessons and annual rings have been added to the tree ring while deep similarities have emerged between the Nordic nations. Nordic cooperation is based on stable foundations, and one of the foundations is cultural similarity. The Swedish Democrats advocate strengthened cooperation in the field of culture and education where we believe that Nordic language understanding can be improved, a Nordic cultural cannon introduced as a natural development of the literature cannon that exists, and closer cooperation around outdoor life can take place by, among other things, taking a new hold on the initiative for a Nordic outdoor year. Nordic cultural cooperation is the cornerstone of the community that binds the Nordic countries together. Cultural cooperation reflects the basis of common values on which we in the Nordic countries are founded. The strategy developed for Nordic cooperation on cultural issues over the next few years has positive elements, but it can be strengthened and improved. We would like to see a deeper Nordic cooperation on Sami issues, including through Sweden's contribution of resources to the international Sami film institute. The Nordic Council has previously recommended the Nordic countries to co-finance the film institute, which would be a good thing as it is a common Nordic concern and the institute has an ambition to operate internationally and today operates in both Sweden and Norway. The Nordic countries have previously had a successful collaboration on the promotion of new cultural forms such as computer games through the Nordic computer game programme. This programme is described as one of the Council's most successful collaborations in the field of culture and was responsible for a large part of Swedish cultural policy's gaming policy. We believe that gaming cooperation should be resumed and can spread interest in Nordic culture and nature. Mr President, I would like to Language understanding and the ability to communicate in the Nordic languages with each other is a key factor in Nordic cooperation, and not least for Nordic cultural cooperation it is fundamental. Several of the Nordic languages are closely related and of course relatively easy by residents of other Nordic countries. The fact that the Nordic Council also encourages and encourages communication in the Nordic languages during our sessions and meetings is very positive for language understanding in general. Given the importance and centrality of language understanding, it is sad to see that language comprehension tends to deteriorate. These are serious signals that should be met with action. Deterioration of Nordic language understanding may ultimately hamper both an integrated Nordic labour market, trade agreements and educational exchange, as well as the Community in the Nordic identity and cultural exchange. One explanation for the deterioration of language understanding is globalisation and the spread of English, while we do not have the same degree of oral communication today. Another explanation may be that teaching in neighbouring languages at Nordic universities is very limited and that teaching courses for Swedish teachers, for example, do not include adequate teaching in neighbouring languages or even any requirement to study Nordic languages. Knowledge requirements for neighbouring languages in the diplomas could be a measure. The Swedish Democrats believe that the Government, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council should take this issue seriously and present proposals for measures to strengthen the Nordic language understanding. During the spring, we held a seminar in the Swedish delegation on the subject. It was informative and inspiring and can serve as a basis for long-term action. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats, like what was put forward in the Stoltenberg report in 2009, want to strengthen Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and security. We see obvious merit in the Nordic countries taking joint responsibility for the security of the region, as was long planned during the Cold War era. We therefore welcome the fact that the Nordic countries launched Nordefco cooperation in 2009. We also welcome the close collaboration on defence and security issues between the Nordic and Baltic countries in 2015 and 2016. It is also positive that cooperation in security and defence policy has taken real steps forward in recent years. This applies in particular to the deepening of defence cooperation with Finland. However, we believe that more can be done to achieve enhanced defence cooperation, and we want to see increased efforts in Nordic cooperation to achieve this. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats regard Sweden as, in descending order, part of a Nordic, European, Western and global community. In line with this, we want to work in particular to strengthen Nordic identity and broaden and deepen Nordic cooperation. The North's business is ours.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-43	Mr President, I would like to In the run-up to this debate, we have been called upon to raise the issue of border barriers and how they affect people in the Nordic countries. The Left Party wants a humane and welcoming refugee policy both in Sweden and in Europe. Everyone should have the opportunity to seek protection from persecution and be able to have their asylum reasons tested in a legally secure way while at the same time being given good opportunities to start their new life in their new home country. It is through an expanded and well-functioning reception system that we are dealing with the fact that a large number of people are going to Sweden and Europe, not by closing the borders. Border and identity controls are also expensive, both socially and economically. Police resources are limited and are needed better elsewhere. Integration is deteriorating, and people are prevented from reuniting with their loved ones. The Left Party was against the proposal to introduce border and ID controls when adopted in the Riksdag. The introduction of border and ID controls has resulted in restrictions on the right of asylum which the Left Party cannot support. Nor do we share the view that public order and internal security were under threat. One argument behind the introduction of border and identity controls was that it would force other states in the EU to take greater responsibility. We, for our part, expressed concern that the introduction of controls would lead to a domino effect with closed borders throughout Europe as a result. And that is exactly what has happened. The introduction did not lead the rest of the EU to take greater responsibility, but had the direct opposite effect. The borders between the states of Europe are now closed almost everywhere to people on the run. New repressive legislation is being put forward at a high pace, and agreements with Turkey, Afghanistan and a number of African countries are being signed. Assistance efforts to stop people fleeing are being carried out. It is a dangerous development that jeopardises the right of asylum and human rights. The introduction of border and ID controls means limiting one of the most important advances in Nordic cooperation – the free movement and passport freedom between our countries. The freedom of passports, which has existed since the 1950s, has deepened and strengthened the Nordic community. Today, the Nordic labour market is clearly linked thanks to the freedom of passports. People around the Nordic region have had greater opportunities to study, work, travel, settle and meet within the Nordic region. This has greatly contributed to making the Nordic region richer. Border controls and ID controls make everyday life difficult for many in the Nordic countries but also for our economies. The removal of ID controls has actually had only a marginal impact for the better. The damage has already happened. When the EU is unable to deal with the refugee situation, the Nordic countries should go ahead and work together to receive the people fleeing. Instead, we see how Nordic countries deliberately make it difficult for people to use their right to seek asylum. It is a dangerous development that jeopardises the right of asylum and human rights. We in the Left Party see great potential in developing Nordic cooperation across land borders. We have a lot in common, and we would benefit from developing our cooperation. Many times we can solve problems with border barriers, develop collaboration and develop strategies for the challenges of the future in a better way in the Nordic countries than every time we run to the EU, where other Member States still disagree, and try to solve the issue. At the same time, we will forget about our neighbours Norway and Iceland. When the decision on border and ID controls was taken, a withdrawal period was introduced in order not to over-extend the authority of the government. It was a central argument on the part of the government in its response to the criticism that the bill was poorly substantiated and yet so much intervention. The withdrawal period was then removed without any clear analysis or explanation of how public order and internal security were threatened. The Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed and evaluated the Police Authority's establishment of border controls during the period November 2015 to May 2016 as well as the decisions on the extension of border control taken by the Government. In its review report, the Swedish National Audit Office makes serious criticism of the government. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the Government should have taken greater responsibility to ensure that there were adequate decision-making documents and adequate follow-up of the operation. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the shortcomings in the Government's documentation make it somewhat unclear on what basis the Government's decision has been made. The Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion that nothing in the audit indicates that the government has had any closer knowledge of how the controls were carried out or the basis for the Government's actions and motives is spectacular and confirms the concerns we from the Left Party had. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the fact that the Government decided on the reintroduction and extension of internal border controls without proper control and follow-up led to major risks as it involved a major police operation in a police authority that already had a strained situation while border controls had a major impact on individuals. It is also important to point out that the Police Authority not only abstained from requesting the introduction of border controls but was directly opposed to their implementation. The government thus withdrew the order laid down in the Aliens Regulation, which means that it is the police who are to submit a request to reintroduce border controls. The Left Party believes that there are strong reasons for listening to the recommendations of the National Audit Office and taking action accordingly. I will now turn to some other issues concerning Nordic cooperation. Sweden should, in the opinion of the Left Party, work towards increased cooperation in the Nordic countries and that this should also cover LGBTQ issues. Such cooperation must be organised in conjunction with representatives of LGBTQ organisations in the countries concerned. All Nordic countries have today introduced same-sex marriages, and the Faroe Islands are in the process of the last little effort. A joint convention for partnership and same sex marriage in Nordic cooperation would guarantee that partnership or marriage in one country will also apply in the other Nordic countries. There is a regulation dealing with international legal relations concerning marriage, adoption and guardianship in the Nordic countries. It does not apply today to same-sex marriages and partnerships. The regulation is based on a family law convention between the Nordic countries, which was written already in 1931 and which requires reciprocity. An agreement should therefore be reached between the other Nordic states. The government should therefore work within the Nordic cooperation to ensure that the regulation on marriage, adoption and guardianship also applies to partnerships and same-sex marriages. Today's legislation has major consequences for some, such as for the Kleiven spouses, who have moved from Norway to Värmland. Now the legislative gap makes it necessary for them to adopt their own children. Since Swedish law does not automatically approve assisted fertilization made abroad, the Kleiven spouses are formally only the parents of each of their children – they have two children. They were registered as married. It was okay. But they became sole guardians of each of their children. If the accident were to occur and one of the parents died, the other parent would not be the guardian, but rather a relative of the deceased. Today, the Nordic countries are also cooperating widely with the Baltic States. It would be good if this exchange also covered issues of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. Although the situation of LGBT people has improved in recent years in the Baltic States, not least in Estonia, there are still major challenges, particularly in the area of harassment, which is common, and discrimination, which is widespread. The industrial competence of the Nordic countries also complements each other many times. Rather than competing with each other, there are advantages in interacting with smart specialisation. The Norwegian industry has strong links to oil extraction in the North Sea, while the Swedish industry has been successful in areas such as automation. The relatively short transport distances between countries make it closer for many industries to export and import from neighbouring countries than to transport goods within Sweden. This is why improved infrastructure across the Nordic borders is important, especially in rail and broadband. In a globalised world, the Nordic countries would benefit from cooperation and specialisation in industry rather than from competition. Therefore, the Government should work to ensure that the Nordic Council of Ministers will set up a programme for increased industrial cooperation and more research and innovation in the Nordic region. Today, there is a lack of information about those who move across our Nordic borders for work. This makes it difficult to grasp the importance of cross-border cooperation. The government should therefore work towards bilateral agreements between the Nordic countries on border statistics so that those who work in another Nordic country can be seen in that country's statistics. Then, too, the consequences of border controls, for example, would be better seen in the statistics and hopefully the policy would avoid such serious mistakes again. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-GcKu5SAQLUuatr4FJmtaHz	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Nordic region. The report deals with the Government's letter Nordic cooperation in 2016 and the Nordic Council's Swedish delegation's report from the same year. However, the report takes as its starting point the areas of cooperation between the Nordic countries that concern the demands for exercise that came in during the last general period of exercise. My contribution to this debate will also be based on three of these areas: the overall view of our Nordic cooperation, border barriers and Nordic cooperation in healthcare. I will not touch on Nordic cooperation in defence. It's not because it's not important– it's the opposite in the troubled times we're living– but our motion requests are included in another report, and they're better suited to that debate. Let me start with the overall view of cooperation. The Nordic countries have cooperation based on strong popular support, common values in terms of democracy, justice, transparency and the importance of the rule of law. In many ways Nordic cooperation is unique, especially in an international, global comparison. Nordic cooperation is politically and economically well established. The Nordic welfare model, that no one should fall outside society's safety net, is something that many other countries look up to and to some extent try to imitate. But cooperation is also historically and culturally rooted. At the beginning of the week, the vice-president, together with a delegation from southern Skåne Uppåkra, visited the Archaeological Center. It is Scandinavia's largest Iron Age settlement, and this is where Swedish-Danish history is written when the treasure is slowly dug up. There are many opportunities for integration when politicians meet across borders and when schoolchildren together get to dig out and explore our common history. Nordic cooperation must have real added value. This must enable us to face up to future challenges together. If we do not succeed in this, our Nordic cooperation loses the legitimacy it has today. The Christian Democrats therefore urge the government to continue to be the driving force for reforming cooperation to become as effective and relevant as possible. It should also be taken into account that our countries meet in far more international arenas today than once when cooperation was initiated. I am thinking not least of UN cooperation. The EU ambassadors meet today once a week. It may have to do with the fact that we differ in wanting to be among friends in a world where fewer and fewer countries stand up for human rights. But we also realise that we are small countries, and if we can do things together, we have a greater opportunity to influence globally as well. But the Nordic countries cannot meet solely by tradition, although it is nice when we come together and realise that we have a lot in common. That is why we must dare to let go of areas of cooperation that no longer have real added value. We Christian Democrats have therefore budgeted less on Nordic cooperation in this year's budget because we believe that cooperation should be more effective than it is today. At the same time, we must strengthen areas where the countries of the Nordic countries can become a better region together. These are security policies, simplifications for work, entrepreneurship, researchers and carers. This, Mr President, leads me to the problem of border barriers. Many of us who are involved in the Nordic issues by joining the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council or running the issues, as I do, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs do so because we come from regions where we realise how important it is to remove the obstacles that exist between our countries. It is difficult to get into an everyday life where you spend the day between two countries if you haven't experienced it yourself. The Border Barriers Council was appointed in 2014. It's important. The task is to remove existing border barriers between Nordic countries and to prevent new ones from emerging. In the Government's letter there are a total of twelve loose border barriers in 2016. This is positive given the objective of removing five to ten border barriers per year. Sweden has been responsible for two of these. One applies to the eligibility of Swedish snowmobile drivers to drive in Norway. It can certainly be that important, even though I myself am not affected by this. Furthermore, there is commercial passenger boat traffic across the Norwegian-Swedish border. As has been pointed out earlier when the Nordic countries have been debated, the solution to border barriers in the Öresund region has been made more difficult by ID and border controls. This is a subject that is only briefly mentioned in the Government's letter. However, it is estimated that relations with Denmark are very good and that there have been close contacts with the Danish authorities on the basis of the identity and border controls. But here we must admit that the relationship between our countries has got a thorn and that the focus must now be on regaining close and good cooperation in the future. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to Nordic cooperation in health care, the Christian Democrats have been a driving force within the framework of the Nordic Council. In addition to linguistic and cultural similarities, all Nordic countries have small populations with similar disease patterns and clinical practices. Many good collaborations are already underway in the Nordic region, but the Christian Democrats believe that the work needs to be further developed in order to contribute to efficiency, quality and good use of our financial resources. With reference to the small populations of the Nordic countries, it is a challenge to have a sufficient population base to develop and maintain expertise on what applies to such diseases. There is therefore great value in increasing cooperation. For example, we believe that work on rare diagnoses must be intensified through the exchange of information via Rarelink. Mr President, I would like to The annual debate on the Nordic countries is important. I thank everyone who is involved in it. Regardless of the border barriers and other things that we set up, integration between our countries will continue. On the other hand, the pace will be determined by the willingness of our national governments in the Nordic countries to help remove the remaining barriers to borders. Only in this way can more citizens and businesses benefit from the positive effects of further integration. Fewer absurdities, fewer obstacles and less hassle would strengthen the conditions for vital, exciting and growing border regions. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats, of course, support all the reservations, but for time to come, I only ask for reservation 4 under paragraph 1.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-80	Mr President, I would like to I am the deputy delegation leader and, of course, share the Chairman's view that the Swedish delegation is an active group. This makes the work pleasant and important. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Office for the support we always receive in our important work. Mr President, I would like to We live in a troubled time. There are changes all over the world, both socially and economically as well as politically. I am thinking of Trump in the United States, Brexit, the war in Syria, but also the developments in Turkey and Russia. In these times Nordic cooperation is increasingly important. I am pleased that our cooperation is constructive and takes place in a good atmosphere. Our cooperation is also very popular. It's a force. Our societies are relatively similar and are based on fundamental values such as democracy, equality and human rights. Our countries may seem small, but together we are 27 million people. The Nordic region is one of the world's largest economies. We end up at the top ten in the world and at the top five in Europe. When we act together, we get more attention and influence. We have noted this many times. We have everything to gain by deepening our cooperation, because together we become stronger. It was also evident when we discussed the Nordics' voice in the world during the year. The entrances included the Nordic countries and the G20, the Nordic countries and the USA – new conditions and how we can together achieve the UN's world goals. Sweden's place in the UN Security Council is also an opportunity for us in the Nordic countries to make our voice heard. At the mini-session in Oslo, identity checks, the refugee crisis and integration were discussed. These are still topical issues. The world is facing one of the greatest refugee crises since World War II. Many people have applied for asylum in the Nordic countries, especially in Sweden. We have also received unaccompanied children and young people. It is important that we work together in the Nordic countries to integrate the people who can stay in our countries so that they have a place in our societies with faith in the future, housing, work, studies and meaningful leisure time. Here we can work together through knowledge sharing and positive examples. That is the strength of Nordic cooperation. Since the 1950s, our citizens have been able to travel freely in the Nordic countries. It has strengthened the Nordic community. It has also been very beneficial to our labour market. Citizens have been able to commute borders and companies have been able to recruit skills across borders. This changed about a year and a half ago when border and ID controls were introduced between Sweden and Denmark. It was a necessary measure in a difficult situation. We know that it had a negative impact on mobility, in particular on work commuting in the Öresund region. However, it is gratifying that the ID controls have been removed in the Öresund region during the month of May this year. We hope they do not need to be reinstated. Border barriers are an important issue for us Social Democrats. It is good that this debate has been extended to a dialogue on border barriers. In order for people to live, work and study freely in our countries, it is important to tear down obstacles. The framework is designed on the basis that we live, work and run companies in the same country. Solving border barriers is of paramount importance for people not to be excluded from security systems and for businesses not to be prevented from growing. We Social Democrats think it is good that the Border Barriers Council is in place and is working systematically on these issues. I don't go into border barriers any more than that. However, since we believe that this is an important issue, Mr Niemi will go into it in his speech. The Presidents have also received letters saying that every parliament in the Nordic countries will debate the issue. The Social Democrats have been an active group, also as a party, in the Nordic Council. During the year, we have tabled several members' proposals and submitted a number of written questions. We have also written articles and got them published and been active on social media. Our group has arranged a round table on Poul Nielson's report on working life in the Nordic countries. Our goal was to develop our thinking. For us Social Democrats, it is important to protect and develop the Nordic model. It is a guarantee of fair conditions in the labour market and it counteracts social dumping. During the round table, we social democrats stated that a strong trade union movement in the Nordic countries is important, but also to increase opportunities for skills development and validation and to safeguard gender equality in our workplaces. Our social model is modern and creates greater equality. We Social Democrats want to protect and spread the model to other countries outside the Nordic region. I'm gonna finish where I started. The Nordic countries are known all over the world for a high degree of prosperity, personal freedom, democratic participation, security and equality. It is the values that we must hold on to. They are under pressure in many parts of the world right now. We Social Democrats in the Nordic Council believe that our countries should coordinate and cooperate even more in international associations, in order to influence the development of society in the direction in which we believe. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-97	Mr President, I would like to It was good that Mr Andersson pointed out that the thanks were not only to the delegation as a whole but also to our office. It deserves to be repeated. Mr President, I would like to Perhaps Phia Andersson can say to the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, Margot Wallström, that it would have been desirable to see her here in the debate. She will attend Question Time in about an hour and 15 minutes. I'm sorry she couldn't start here. We have a Nordic debate once a year, and the Nordic Minister for Cooperation is not there. There is cause for regret. Mr President, I would like to Phia Andersson mentioned that the Social Democrats have been active. I can confirm that there is a high level of activity. I would like to emphasise that it actually does so with all parties and all participants in the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council. However, the Social Democrats were extremely passive on one issue during the Copenhagen session, namely that of Nord Stream 2. They didn't say anything, they didn't have an opinion. But here in the Swedish Parliament and in the Swedish debate they have had very firm opinions. They say that they are also doubtful about Nord Stream 2 in essence. But when we put forward a concrete proposal that we should work together from a Nordic perspective on this, they vote against. The left-wing Green Group voted in favour. It honors them. But the Social Democrats voted against. And during the debate in Copenhagen, they said nothing. There was no activity. Mr President, I would like to It's this double bookkeeping that's so strange. In the internal political debate, the Social Democrats are very firm and have an opinion on Nord Stream 2. But they cannot convince their party friends in Karlshamn that Russian pipes should not be stored in Karlshamn harbour. And they cannot convince the delegation to the Nordic Council to have a firm idea of the view of Nord Stream 2. That's a pity.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-103	Mr President, I would like to The issue came up and was discussed in Copenhagen. But we felt that an internal discussion on such an important issue in our own country was needed before dealing with such an issue in a wider context, in Europe and the Nordic countries. It is so important, and there are many points of view on that particular issue. It is a matter of honour for us not to stand in Copenhagen and promise anything without having had a serious discussion at home.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-105	Mr President, I would like to The issue was discussed in Copenhagen, without social democratic participation. It was decided in Stockholm, at the mini-session here a couple of weeks ago. Then the Social Democrats voted against and were not very active in that debate either. It was Erkki Tuomioja from Finland who possibly brought the Social Democratic standard. Mr President, I would like to That's what's so strange. You have the chance and you can really mark. If there is a question that is really Nordic, it is these gas pipelines, with the increased risk of Russian gas, passing Finland, passing Sweden, entering Danish territory and then moving into Germany. If there is a question that really has a Nordic dimension, it is probably a gas pipeline that affects at least three countries. In addition, the relationship between the Baltic countries and the five Nordic countries is particularly affected. It is strange, then, that you do not have that level of activity and, above all, that you did not vote in favour of the issue being dealt with as a Nordic issue. It voted against, and I think there is every reason to regret that, Mr President. One thing is said in the Swedish debate, but when you have the chance to make an impression in the Nordic debate, you refrain from it. I find that regrettable.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-109	Mr President, I would like to That is what Mr Wallmark thinks, because his position on this matter is ready. We think it is of greater importance and call for a broader discussion, even at home, precisely because of all the elements that exist on this issue.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-110	Mr President, I would like to 25 million inhabitants, the world's most equal economy, the world's best conditions to achieve all of the 17 global development goals, good conditions to be self-sufficient, yes, even net exporter of renewable energy by 2030 – does that sound like a utopia? No, this is a sample of what the Nordic countries are offering today. The Nordic region consists of five countries and three autonomous areas ranging from the northernmost Arctic to continental Europe. It has in many ways a common history and a common model of how we can and want to create a sustainable future. The Nordic welfare model developed jointly after the Second World War is today the world leader in almost all areas. Peace, equality, security, well-being and, not least, good cooperation have been some of the most important elements because the Nordic region and the Community have become what they are today. If we look around, there is not only reason to manage but also to develop it further. When the United States begins to betray and shake its international promises, when European cooperation is challenged from different directions and edges, and when the neighbour in the East rattles and scares, Nordic cooperation is more important than ever. We also have great common challenges ahead of us, from the melting glaciers in the Arctic and Greenland to this year's record low water levels in large parts of Sweden. Climate change reminds us of the great impact of water on our prosperity. Water issues are a good symbol of the cross-border effects of climate change, which requires the joint mobilisation of resources in order to achieve the desired results. Mr President, I would like to That is why our priorities for the Swedish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers next year are very important. Let me point out three areas for which we Greens have worked for a long time and where we see that increased Nordic cooperation can play a major role in global development. This applies first and foremost to the seas. Next week, Sweden, together with Fiji, will launch the first UN conference on the seas in history, objective 14 of Agenda 2030. It is not to make new promises but to see how quickly we can become better at fulfilling and implementing the promises we have already made. The crowds will be directed at us for good and for evil. On the one hand, there are some of the earth's cleanest and best sources of drinking water in our regions, and the commitment is great at all levels. At the same time, the Baltic Sea has become a disgrace on the international water map. Our fishing is not yet a sustainability standard. If we are to reverse the trend, we need more Nordic cooperation and greater pressure from the Nordic countries for an offensive policy against emissions and litter. Mr President, I would like to Then there's security. How we jointly choose to work with it in our neighbourhood is important to far more nations than our own. Important aspects of security cooperation are enhanced cooperation on how we jointly equip and meet climate threats, secure our water resources and secure our food supply. This also applies to how we work with defence, cyber threats and advocacy campaigns. I welcome the fact that Sweden will participate in the planned European Knowledge Centre in Helsinki in order to avoid hybrid threats and the development of Nordic Defence Cooperation, Nordefco. Here we have probably only seen the beginning of increasingly coherent security cooperation in the Nordic countries. Mr President, I would like to That brings me to sustainable development. As I mentioned earlier, all Nordic countries are top in terms of the conditions for achieving the global development goals of Agenda 2030. We should be proud of it, but we should not believe that this head start can be taken for granted. With an offensive policy, we Nordic countries will continue to be at the absolute forefront of creating a fossil-free, equal and ecologically sustainable economy that can inspire and engage. We have great common natural resources, extensive research cooperation and business cooperation that have characterised the development since the end of the Second World War. How we create common guidelines for this will have an impact on the development of the UN and international development cooperation. Mr President, I would like to Nordic cooperation should be a cornerstone and a core of our security and foreign policy as well as our sustainable development policy. Governments come and go, and we do not always share ideological convictions. But from an international perspective, our Nordic model is both acclaimed and admired. More than a hundred years ago, the Nordic countries represented a rather miserable and dark corner of the world. Maybe we haven't been able to do much about the darkness. But our journey out of poverty and marginalisation has been amazing. My hope is that the journey has only just begun and that, during next year's Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, Sweden will pursue a progressive and courageous agenda. I therefore call for the motion in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-125	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to this debate, it sounds like it is a large and comprehensive report that we are discussing. It's not like that, if you read it. It is about Nordic cooperation, a number of exercises, cross-border work, health care and Nordic cooperation in defence based on exercise. Of course, this is also about the government's letter about the Nordic Council of Ministers during the past year. For the Center Party, it is well known that we stand up for Nordic cooperation. Nordic cooperation has been of benefit to citizens in all our countries, but also to countries and people beyond the Nordic region. That is, of course, important. We do not see borders, we see opportunities and freedoms for people. The power of the example is also of great importance here. We have resolved conflicts, we have worked together and we have shown the way through the free movement of people and businesses. It has been an opportunity that has created new jobs, economic development and conditions for our well-being in the Nordic region. That is why it is of course important for us to safeguard and develop the foundations of Nordic cooperation. We like to see a free and green Nordic region looking ahead where we have demolished border barriers and where we have created opportunities for citizens and companies and facilitated their work. We are supposed to be good neighbours, and we have, in all material respects, shown that we have been able to be. The borderless North is really part of our hallmark. Since the 1950s, we have been working to remove obstacles, remove passport requirements and facilitate and plan thresholds for people and businesses so that they can develop their business. The Alliance government contributed to the creation of a Special Border Barriers Council in spring 2014 with the task of dismantling barriers. As previously shown, the level was set at five to ten obstacles per year. That is why, of course, what happened in 2015 is tragic and deeply serious. For the first time since the 1950s, our citizens were forced to legitimise themselves when they crossed the border. The borderless North, our hallmark, we fought to maintain when we became members of the EU and Norway chose a different path. We fought for the borderless Nordic region and for the free movement of the Nordic countries, but all of a sudden we got border barriers again. In the Öresund region 85 percent of the train commuters were affected. We know that companies are talking about billions of costs as a result of the ID checks. It can be said calmly that this has affected the Öresund region, but the impact is also far beyond it. The feeling of and confidence in the borderless North has been broken. One of the most important economic zones in Europe, the Öresund region, has had a clear border within it. This is the largest coherent labour market in the Nordic countries. The damage to faith, I think, must be taken seriously. These are a number of areas that have been borderless where we feel or distrust our desire to maintain limitlessness. Now that we have abolished the ID controls, as was the case at the time, it is important that efforts are made to restore confidence and repair the damage that has been done. This is something that the Center Party points out in a separate opinion. I hope that, in all its functions, whether it be the parliamentary or ministerial part, the Nordic Council will work to make a reality of restoring confidence and repairing the damage after what has been. Mr President, I would like to Defence and security are of course a new part of Nordic cooperation, and this is an important part. The Center Party supports the report on what is said about the development of cooperation with Nordefco. There is a good description of this. There is no doubt about what the Center Party wants, namely to work for the entire Nordic region to become a NATO member. However, the question has not been included in the motions that have been made and which we have dealt with or in the text otherwise. That is why we have chosen not to enter into this discussion in this report. However, it is only through joint NATO membership and joint EU membership that we can truly ensure that we have a good basis for a borderless Nordic region in Europe. Let me also briefly say something about what is concerned only in a small paragraph, but which is important. It's about the Arctic. The Arctic Council has not received the attention it deserves. The activities in the Arctic have not been reported by the government, despite the fact that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the House have pointed this out in the past. We regret that it has not been done and expect it to be included in the coming years. The Arctic Council is an extremely important area to pay attention, not least when we talk about defence and security. We therefore expect the government to return with letters on that part. I support the proposal in the report.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-140	Mr President, I would like to West Germany's former Chancellor Willy Brandt once said of Berlin's future destiny that what belongs together grows together. Sometimes things go faster and sometimes slower, but that's exactly how it is: What goes together grows together. This is also true of Nordic cooperation, which is based on a historical and linguistic community. We also see that it finds power in a strong community of values, in its view of democracy, equality and a market economy. Over time, we have seen increased mobility across the Nordic borders, an increasingly integrated industry and a growing work commute within the Nordic region. The core task of politics must be to facilitate this mobility and ultimately to simplify people's everyday lives. When we talk about border barriers to mobility, we often discuss technical and specific issues such as VAT duties, customs duties and the Nordic tax agreement. Like the committee report, these are extremely important issues. But I believe that in the future we will also need to discuss more how we can facilitate mobility through a better infrastructure between the Nordic countries. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight better and more effective cooperation between Sweden and Norway. We have the longest common land border, the largest trade and the largest single labour market. Over the last five years, trade with Norway has increased by 30%, and today we are actually trading three times as much with Norway as we are trading with China. At the same time, we know that we have found it difficult to put together infrastructure planning between Sweden and Norway. This is because our traffic authorities are not coordinated, we do not have common calculation models for infrastructure projects and we do not carry out joint selection studies. This, too, is an important obstacle to better mobility for Nordic citizens. Nordic cooperation must also be more about achieving increased security and security, in terms of both internal and external security. Operational police cooperation between the Nordic countries is now deepened by the decision we took in this House last week. From 2 July onwards, police officers from other Nordic countries will have the opportunity to perform so-called duties in Sweden, and vice versa. As a matter of fact, it concerns everything from intervention activities to joint patrols. This will improve the police presence in border counties such as Dalarna, Värmland and Norrbotten, and it is also an important step forward in combating cross-border crime in the Nordic countries. Mr President, I would like to External threats to the Nordic countries are increasing. We are experiencing a new standard of security policy in our own neighbourhood, mainly through Russia's recurring provocations, violations of international law and unwillingness to accept the borders of other countries and security policy choices. It is therefore good that Nordic defence cooperation has now actually deepened in areas such as international operations, materials, logistics and education. This increases the operational impact of the armed forces. At the same time, we should also be honest and say that this defence cooperation is a peacetime cooperation. As long as we have different security policy solutions through military alliance freedom versus NATO membership, there are strong inherent limitations on how deep and effective defence cooperation can be. I respect the fact that there are different views in this House as to whether it is good or bad if Sweden and Finland become NATO members. On the other hand, I have no understanding of those who say that it does not matter to Nordic defence cooperation that we are so deeply divided in terms of security policy when it comes to alliance membership or for those who say that a Nordic defence alliance would take place at the expense of NATO's presence in the Nordic countries. Only NATO can maintain a credible war-resisting capability in the Nordic countries. Everything else is in my eyes delusions and illusions. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that if the Nordic countries that really belong together are also to grow together, we should reform the Nordic Council. The combination of many and large meetings, an extensive bureaucracy that surrounds these meetings and, to be honest, the limited political progress for the Nordic benefit in some respects means that the Nordic Council has received justified criticism. Firstly, if the work of the Nordic Council is to be successful, it must be significantly better anchored in the national parliaments. There are many examples where one sits in a committee in one's own Parliament and another in the Nordic Council, and in many cases this is unfortunate for the effectiveness of cooperation. Secondly, for reasons of cost and legitimacy, there is reason to review the budget of the Nordic Council and how it can be used more efficiently, because every krona used incorrectly or inefficiently is a lost opportunity for stronger Nordic cooperation. In other words, there are strong reasons for keeping pressure for change at the Nordic Council so that it develops with its present time, otherwise the Nordic Council risks becoming part of the problem rather than the solution to achieve stronger Nordic cooperation.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-154	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report 3, on the Nordic region, and as a member of the Nordic Council's Committee on Welfare, I wanted to talk a little about the highly topical subject of mental illness. On 20 January this year, I attended a conference organised by the Nordic Welfare Centre in Oslo, focusing on children and young people. One of the focus areas was a report commissioned by the project Youth into the Nordic Region – mental health, work and education, coordinated by the Nordic Welfare Centre and is a collaboration with Nordlandsforskning. The report is based on high-quality interview studies conducted in Iceland, the Faroe Islands and Norway around young people who are in vulnerable life situations in terms of education, work experience and mental health. The report analyses and describes how young people themselves experience the situation and how authorities and service providers in the welfare sector in the countries describe challenges, actions and actions within this group. Mr President, I would like to This is a complex and very large area that concerns the Nordic countries' welfare areas on a broad scale, i.e. well-being as well as education, work and health. The purpose of the assignment has been to gain knowledge of how the actors themselves describe the problem, especially in view of the practical everyday life of meetings between young people and those working with the areas. The conclusions presented in the report are therefore developed in the light of concrete and practical solutions that keep the wider cross-sectoral challenges at government level out of the question. The background to the mission has been the growing concern about young people who are in danger of falling outside education and are unable to qualify for work as a result of mental health problems. We can see that there is a clear link between mental illness, loss of further education, weak connection to working life and so on, which applies to all the Nordic countries. The 137-page report raises many important questions and also offers many suggestions for measures that can be implemented throughout the Nordic region in the light of the research carried out. In today's debate on mental health, it is of great importance that studies, research and action proposals, like this, should be given the opportunity to be highlighted in order to increase the opportunities for stakeholders and professionals in this area to overcome the major problems that exist. Having said that, I look forward to the continued cooperation in this area, which is so incredibly important for the entire Nordic region.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-162	Mr President, I would like to Nordic cooperation is good and, of course, also developmentable. Nordic passport freedom is a basis for the cooperation that works so well. Freedom of movement between countries means that we can move to, transport between, work and study in each other's countries as northerners. There is a fundamental strength in Nordic cooperation. With nearly 28 million inhabitants, if, hypothetically, we joined forces, we would be the world's tenth largest economy. We have exports and imports between countries and a significant movement of labour which fluctuates depending on economic conditions and demand. We have many similarities culturally, value-based, social and within welfare. We are largely united through the languages. The Scandinavian language is spoken practically throughout the Nordic region, although it is in decline in Finland and Iceland. There is a kind of pride in the somewhat harsh climate, and for the most part we stick together although there may be relatively large differences in some issues. The Nordic model is an example, and it is viewed, analysed and admired by many other countries. Our various collaborations in the labour market, energy, tourism, research, culture and more are unique to our region. Mr President, I would like to The success of the Nordic region is very much based on the will and courage to find solutions to daily problems and the desire that we in the globalised world can unite and support each other when needed. We have a developed security and defence policy exchange and cooperation within the Nordic region. In the current security situation, however, it is a strength that we can look to the east and the west and know that there is help and support if necessary, just as we in Sweden can act if the issue comes to us. I am a true Nordic friend, born in Finland and raised in Sweden. I have mastered Finnish and Swedish, an advantage in the Nordic Council, but I am also one of the nearly 700 000 Finns who have moved to Sweden. In the same way, Swedes – of course not as many – have moved to Norway to work or Faroese moved to Denmark and so on. Not all Nordic countries are members of the EU, and a number of countries are members of NATO. But despite these decisions in the different countries, Nordic cooperation can be relatively smooth. Mr President, I would like to One of the key issues is accessibility to the entire Nordic region and being able to move without borders between countries without showing passports and at the same time feel welcome to the respective recipient country. It is therefore important to highlight one of the most urgent decision areas of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers: border barriers. These appear all the time, as our mobility and desire to move increases as our countries continue to develop. It can be about the labour market, permanent or temporary relocation, moving back to your country of birth as a pensioner, studying at another Nordic university, establishing a business branch in a Nordic neighbouring country, exporting a product or carrying out cross-border tourism, police cooperation and so on. Border barriers are troublesome, often really difficult to solve, many times simple leaven that has only been laid down because of too little citizen pressure. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic Council of Ministers has established a Border Barriers Council with representatives from the different Nordic countries and the Nordic Council. Last year 12 border barriers were solved, and that is a good result. Two of these were linked to Sweden. I have the privilege of being a member of the Council, and there is a desire to remove the obstacles in conjunction with the various Nordic governments. Many initiatives have been taken. Only this year are border barriers debates conducted in all Nordic parliaments. That's good! There is strong pressure from the Border Barriers Council and the Nordic Council for the Nordic governments to take the next step when new legislation is introduced nationally so that, in the long term, it will be an obligation to evaluate whether it can lead to border barriers between the different Nordic countries, just as we implement different EU directives and also regulations. The ambitions are high. However, we are aware of the difficulties. It is not always possible to change national legislation. There may be too much cost increases or other negative side effects. It is a natural part of national legislative integrity, but at the same time it is absolutely fundamental for Nordic cooperation that the national governments and the Nordic Council of Ministers increase their ambitions and value Nordic cooperation even more in order to be able to extend opportunities for Nordic mobility in the present and future – a unique model that arouses admiration and curiosity in our surrounding world, where more and more people are seeking increased nationalism and protectionism. Mr President, I would like to In the Nordic Council there is a Border Barriers Group with representatives from the four different committees who then report on to the Border Barriers Council. The group's work is ambitious and determined with a focus on following up existing border barriers and identifying new ones. However, a challenge is, and this is also a signal back to our Swedish delegation, to get the members of the various committees from the Nordic countries and autonomous regions to act in the various parliaments to ask questions, follow up and act proactively to prevent future border barriers and fight to remove existing ones. I am sure that in the future we will find an even better process. The issues of border barriers require our attention, and we have actually taken many steps to combat, remove and prevent border barriers. I therefore also support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-180	Mr President, I would like to I asked for a reply because I heard Mr Niemi talk about border barriers and the importance of removing border barriers, and I heard a warm talk about the borderless North – in a hopefully borderless Europe, I would say. But I did not hear anything specific about the major border barrier that we reintroduced for some time between Sweden and Denmark, for example, right through the largest Nordic labour market region, i.e. the one between Malmö and Copenhagen. I would like to come back to that, because it has been a clear example of what happens when there are strong border barriers to free movement. It has involved billions of costs for businesses and for economic development, and there is a strong distrust in people who have been affected. 85% of commuters have asked themselves whether this is sustainable or whether they have to change jobs, move and so on. It is a basic shot towards confidence in what has been the nobility mark for the Nordic region – borderlessness.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-183	Mr President, I would like to We are all well aware of the history of the introduction of temporary border controls. It was absolutely necessary at a time when it was a high load visvi Sweden. In 2015, 163 000 people wanted to go to Sweden. It was a hard pressure on the police and customs, on the Swedish authorities, to do things at a fast and fast pace to get through decisions but above all to do it worthy of people to enter Sweden. It is clear that border controls in this way were the last step in a process in which we had to act to also mark our comrades within the EU circle. It was absolutely necessary then, and it was a process that arose in a situation that was critical for the whole of Europe and where Sweden took a disproportionate responsibility. No one was happy to introduce border controls, but they were necessary at the time. Now they are removed, and now there is another process, another model, that applies. Of course, I assume that there will be a proper follow-up as to how and where and in what way we will act in the future in order to perhaps avoid border controls too, but at that point it was absolutely necessary. There were no alternatives, and we had to act so that the entire Swedish welfare system would work as practically as possible for everyone who lives in Sweden but also for those who would come to Sweden. I assume that there is a process of monitoring and evaluating this so that we know for the future how to act even better so that it does not affect travellers across Öresund or similar areas.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-187	Mr President, I would like to It sounded like a piece of wood: To this you had to and had to. We have seen such bracks before throughout history in Sweden. The coercion was clear, according to Pyry Niemi. Then it's always that you can do things in different ways. There is not only one solution. At least I do not belong to a party that believes that there is only one solution or one way. If it was coercion, it was the coercion of self-imposed and also very long-lasting. But it sounds good if the signal is that there will be a follow-up. Then I wonder: will Pyry Niemi, who is involved in the discussion on border barriers, ensure that these issues are raised. Because it is also about discussing how we restore people's confidence that this does not happen again suddenly tomorrow. How do we restore confidence in borderless Europe? This must be an extremely important issue for the Nordic cooperation forward, for people's view of the Nordic region as a common market in all essential respects. I hope that is something that Mr Niemi will work for in the discussion on border barriers, and I also assume that the government will try to restore a loss of confidence in this part.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-190	Mr President, I would like to Throughout the whole process in the Border Barriers Council, we had regular discussions on this. There were also seminars on this issue, and we have continued follow-up at the Border Barriers Council. Even in the contacts we now have with our government, and the Danish Government is making comments about it. Of course, it is a matter of restoring confidence. I don't know how low it is or whether it is – I don't think Kerstin Lundgren does either, but I assume it's more of an assumption. But there are shortcomings, and there is frustration. I agree. We fully agree on this, because it has affected travellers and commuters. That's where we're in complete agreement. But at that point we had to do something. Regrettably, the passengers and commuters were given disproportionate responsibility. Perhaps they also had some extra costs and some suffering from changing trains and so on. But surely it is also so, if you look ahead, that in order to avoid this we will look through the models and processes that work well. I always welcome a cross-party discussion in order to find solutions that are practically applicable. But this was a very urgent situation, and I do not think there was any realistic and clear preparation whatsoever for how it could have been done differently. It is possible that there were other solutions, but at that very moment, with the questions that came from the police authority, customs, the Migration Agency and other authorities in Sweden, this was probably the best solution to remedy the situation that existed at that time.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-193	Mr President, I would like to Friends of the North! Kerstin Lundgren has spoken well on behalf of the Center Party, and I will complement her on the basis of my work in the Nordic Council, which consists of 87 members from the five Nordic countries and the three autonomous areas. In a serious and complex time with major challenges globally, in Europe and in the Nordic region, Nordic cooperation is a valuable asset for providing common solutions. By virtue of our economic strength, among other things, the Nordic countries have an important role to play. The successful cooperation ahead of the climate agreement in Paris is an important and successful example, as is the cooperation of the Nordic countries in foreign and security policy, which continues to develop and deepen. The long-term and close Nordic relations make it possible for the Nordic region to play an increasingly important role in European and global cooperation in the future. We have laid a good foundation for the cooperation that we have had for the last 50-60 years, but I believe that this will take new leaps forward in the coming years and decades. It is also about common values. The Nordic countries have the opportunity to be a guiding principle for other countries, such as environmental initiatives and gender equality issues. Internationally, an increasingly important discussion is emerging on how to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth. In this discussion, Nordic engagement is a source of power. For me as a fairly new member of the Nordic Council, it is gratifying to see at close range how much is actually happening. I will give a few examples in a moment. But it is also clear how much more can be done at a time of great challenges. Let me mention Russia's war with Ukraine, Britain's intended exit from the EU and the unpredictable US route under Donald Trump. It is quite obvious, as Kerstin Lundgren said, that even more needs to be done in the field of defence between the Nordic countries. A stronger and closer cooperation is a good thing for all. My view and that of the Center Party is, as Pål Jonson also said, that if this is to be fully realised, it must be done within the framework of the NATO Defence Alliance. The sustainability committee in the Nordic Council, where I sit, focuses, among other things, on climate issues, the sustainable use of natural resources, environment and nature conservation, fisheries management and biodiversity – very important issues. These are challenges that affect countries in the Nordic countries as well as in Europe and globally. The Nordic countries can only become even better at developing and being role models for a green transition. A green transition needs innovations, the development of renewable energy based on, for example, bio raw materials, major investments in energy efficiency and a new fossil-free infrastructure. With its combined resources and its rich expertise, Nordic cooperation for research and development can increase the pace of this transition. For me as spokesperson for the Sustainability Committee, it was a pleasure to be able to highlight that the Nordic countries' potential for sustainable food production must be fully realised in the future, that food waste must be reduced and that closer Nordic cooperation is needed to jointly influence the EU's reform of the Water Framework Directive. The Center Party cooperates in the Nordic Council of the Mitten Group. We managed to get both the Mitten Group and the Nordic Council to recommend to the Nordic governments that before possible measures to introduce, for example, border controls, which have been discussed here, consultation with the other Nordic governments should take place – a great success. Preferably, of course, these deteriorations of open borders should not be carried out. The Middle Group has also pushed for a ban on microplastics in cosmetics and certain plastic bags. It is an issue that is very much involved in the Nordic Council, and rightly so. It is also gratifying that the Nordic Council recommended the Nordic governments to work towards a general ban in the EU on four endocrine disrupting phthalates in products that children come into contact with. These were some examples, Mr President, of what is happening in the Nordic Council. Many here have touched on other important areas such as border barriers. I would like to refer the interested party to the Nordic Council's Swedish delegation's report on the activities during 2016 and the government's letter on Nordic cooperation in 2016. With this, Mr President, I would like to close this day – on 1 June 2017 – important debate in the Swedish Parliament on the Nordic Region.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-208	Mr President, I would like to About 15 years ago, when I became involved politically, a politician would never have allowed himself to be photographed by bicycle. Such a picture would have given journalists the opportunity to write articles with the title. XX is out of the question, regardless of what the issue was. Now it's completely different – politicians compete with each other in the appearance of the most bike friendly and would like to be photographed by bike and with bike helmet on, preferably when they inaugurate new bike paths. Here in Parliament, the number of cycling exercises is increasing every year. This year's report deals with no less than 40 requests for measures to make cycling easier and safer. Undeniably, developments are progressing. More and more people understand that cycling is good for both health and wallet. However, the improvement potential remains high – according to the Swedish Transport Administration's report on the transport system's need for capacity-enhancing measures, only 10 per cent of all short journeys are made by bicycle. Some people opt out of the bike because it is perceived as physically challenging – you don't want to come to the office sweaty and spend time showering and changing. Others need to drive morning - tired children to school. For these groups, the electric bike can be a good solution, as the electric motor allows the cyclist to travel comfortably and without much effort. Yesterday, the Swedish Parliament's cycling network organized an excursion, where we had the opportunity to try out, among other things, a Swedish innovation: the family and transport cycle Livelo. There is no doubt that Livelo delivers many smart solutions and is unbeatable in urban environments. Increased use of the electric bicycle as a means of transport would most likely mean that more people choose the bike over the car even at longer commuting distances. Efforts are therefore needed both to adapt the infrastructure for this purpose and to adapt legislation and regulations. Interest in the employer providing a bicycle as a salary benefit increases with both employers and employees. It will become even more attractive as the use of electric bicycles increases. Therefore, it is time to review the rules on preferential taxation for bicycles – something for the government to look at if you really want to increase the bicycle spending. Mr President, I would like to Two years ago, the Riksdag announced to the Government a national cycling strategy. When we demanded a cycling strategy, the main idea was that cycling should become such an accessible, functional, safe and attractive mode of transport that far more people than today choose to cycle. As politicians, we must create the conditions for people to make wise choices and not come up with points, bans or coercive measures. By looking at cycling as a separate, equivalent mode of transport with specific infrastructure needs – something that has become obvious not least given the increased number of electric bicycles and fast bikes – we are taking an important step in this direction. Creating better conditions for cycling is an excellent way to meet the ever-increasing mobility of society as well as the ongoing urbanisation, which otherwise inevitably leads to increased congestion on the streets of our cities. The question is how this strategy, which was presented a few weeks ago, meets expectations. Well, as a description of the good effects of cycling and the need for increased and safer cycling, the strategy is good. Unfortunately, however, it fails in terms of both objectives and concrete proposals. Above all, targets are missing. How big a bicycle trip are we going to have in 10 years and in 15 years? A strategy that lacks goals and concrete proposals will easily become a paper product without significance, which nobody cares about. Not least is the risk that bicycle organisations, which were very hopeful during the two years of work on the strategy, will experience it that way. There is also a lack of responsibility for the implementation and follow-up of the strategy. My hope is that the government will appoint a responsible authority for this as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to The question of the reduction of cycling among children and young people deserves more attention. Everyone knows how important it is for children to move, but yet we get stuck in a vicious circle: We drive our children to school because we don't want to let them ride when there's a lot of traffic, so that they can make it in time even though it's been stressful at home in the morning or out of pure convenience. Then we create the traffic from which we protect our children. There is also a need for clearly improved transport education in schools, preferably designed in such a way that it is equivalent in all schools in the country and does not depend on the municipality in which the school is located. Civil society organisations can be usefully involved in this teaching. Mr President, I would like to Cycling tourism is a major industry in many European countries while in Sweden it still takes its first staggering steps. Of course, Skåne is leading the development with Kattegatleden, Sydostleden and Sydkustleden, which is expected to be completed by 2020. Linking traditional Scanian industries such as food and beverage production to bicycle tourism can attract many foreign tourists and create much-needed jobs. The proximity between the cycling city Copenhagen and Sweden's two leading cycling cities Lund and Malmö makes Öresund an attractive cycling destination. A good news is that traffic with a bicycle ferry between Limhamn and Dråre will start on 1 June. It gives the opportunity to relive the cycle romantics on both sides of Sundet and becomes an alternative to taking the bike on the Öresund train. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 13.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-226	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to talk about TU16 Bicycle Questions.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-228	Of course it should be easy, happy and lovely when you talk bike. It not only strengthens your health but also gives you a happy mood, that is, if it does not rain out; it is a bit boring. Had I had a better singing voice, I could have offered the Chamber the whole song of Danne Stråhed, but I don't. It's a song about the bike as a freedom machine. It's so lovely. Feel free to listen to it. As Boriana was into yesterday we were out cycling with the Swedish Parliament's bicycle network. I had the opportunity to test cycle the new innovation from Livelo; they had a bike with them. As a family cycle in an urban environment, it is absolutely wonderful. It has a box front so you can take two small children with you or have it as a bike to go shopping with. It was a little crowded in some passages. The whole idea of the bike ride was to notice where we need to make a difference. What do the streets look like in Stockholm? This is quite important and something I would like to call on all municipal and county politicians to do: go together and review what it looks like! I think we're pretty bad at it. We in the Swedish Parliament's Transport Committee are often out looking at reality and get a completely different feeling than you get if you only get things told to you. There are a lot of cyclists and walking out, so it's crowded. The bike is cost-effective and a convenient way to transport yourself if you have that possibility. Right now, the bike is on everyone's lips. One can consider whether it is a new phenomenon in Sweden. No, it's definitely not-- it's been around for a long time. It is positive that an iron grip is being taken on the bike today. The bike is everything from a manually trampled entertainment machine to a commercial tool when used as a bike, for mail and more. I don't know if there's already, or if it's going to come, food bikes. There are food trucks today, but I am absolutely sure that food will also be sold from bicycles in the future. The cycle will definitely have a greater role in everyday life, especially when cities are more urbanised and more people are to co-operate on the same surfaces. Parking becomes more expensive and expensive, and roads become smaller and narrower. What, then, is a bicycle? According to Wikipedia, a cycle, formerly called a velociped or bicycle, is usually driven by human muscle power and has one or two wheels. But today the bike is so much more. Today we have bicycles that are not powered by human power but by a small electric motor; the electric motor can also be an auxiliary engine. In the past, there were internal combustion engines that helped, but they are largely gone today. According to Swedish law, segway and electric scooters are also counted as bicycles today. The only limitation is that the maximum speed must not exceed 25 kilometres per hour with the electric motor and that the moto strength must not be more than 250 kilowatts, because then it goes to a moped class 2. As I said, there are many different varieties of electric bicycles today, which make cycling possible for a person who had previously been unable to choose that option. As Boriana used to be, you get quite sweaty, but with the help of the electric bike you can get away with this. We rode at least a mile and a half yesterday, and I didn't have a single drop of sweat on my body but a big smile. With three wheels I had a small advantage, so I could easily stop at all the red lights and crossing points. Cycling has also become something completely different. The bike has become a commercial machine for couriers, packages and letters. We have also seen, as we did yesterday, many food companies delivering their goods by bicycle, for it is so very smooth in the cities today. As I have mentioned, it is a challenge, mainly in the cities, to get to this. We must also bear in mind safety, because we know that the number of accidents is increasing. It is perhaps not surprising; the number of cyclists is also increasing. I call once again on the municipalities and regions to have high ambitions and to think security. We in the Swedish Democrats want urban planning to do everything possible to protect the unprotected road users – from sweeping gravel to building safe cycle paths. We also need to raise awareness among those who cycle that they are very vulnerable. When you jump on a bike, you just think of accessibility, and then you step on. But there are so many dangers around. This also applies to those who are walking on the sidewalks, especially people with dogs. I'm pretty bad at it, have a long leash and let the dog drift away, and you've got a bike between yourself and the dog. As I said, it is not easy to make everyone happy when it comes to cycling, walking or anything else, because there are big differences. If you look at the recreational cycling versus commuting or if you, like Johan, are passionate about the race cyclists, you can see that the cyclists are not a homogeneous group. They all have different needs. The race cyclists come up at enormous speeds. Recreational cyclists may cycle at normal speed up to 15 kilometers per hour. Then there are box bikes. There are many different variants – everything from the small version, which I tried yesterday, to the new package bikes that have a large box on the back so that the visibility is completely obscured. They're also really wide. Then it is important to keep track of which traffic rules should apply. Where are you going to ride these bikes? I think they come more and more in most companies, especially in the big cities. When building new infrastructure in the future, you must also think about bicycles and mopeds. Then I'm thinking mainly of two-plus-one paths. It's a dangerous place to ride a bike. On a two-plus-one road there are sometimes only 20 centimetres of road to cycle on. I know it's not uncommon for us motorists to slow down when we get into the narrow part of a two-plus-one road, i.e. the one-part, because many of us find it scary to drive into the narrow passage with cable railings on both sides. What, then, would it look like if there was also a cyclist there? The uncertainty of motorists leads either to a substantial reduction in speed, which is positive for the safety of the cyclist, or to the driver's entry into the cyclist, which has terrible consequences. As I said, security is the most important thing we can achieve. We need to build more safe bike paths. There are, of course, thoughts about letting cyclists drive more and more on the road, and that worries me strongly, especially because mobile phones are taking more and more of the attention of drivers, which I hope will be illegal in the future. We need to think for sure. Once again, I have a call to municipalities and regions: Help us to make the bike an opportunity for the future! With this, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 10.
i-McjmWQVJZYc7w5qP8xGsCi	An issue shall be of a general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would therefore like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-251	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the government dropped its criticised proposal on bank tax. On the same day, however, another proposal was presented quite surprisingly, namely a proposal for a substantial increase in bank resolution fees. I want to make it clear that it is incredibly important to safeguard financial stability. The resolution reserve system is based on sound principles, namely that it is the banks that should bear the costs if there is a crisis and not the Swedish people. However, the resolution fee must be proportionate to the risks. Sweden already has the largest resolution reserve and maximum resolution fee in the EU. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: what has changed in the risk analysis, which means that the fee for the resolution must be increased so drastically? Was the previous analysis incorrect, or has the level of risk increased?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-254	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is, of course, a good thing that the Moderates too see the need to have clear protection with regard to the financial risk that arises in countries with a large financial sector. Sweden is one of the countries in the EU that has the largest share of the economy in the financial sector. We also have recent experience that there can be great risks to taxpayers if a bank is in trouble. Nordbanken, which is now part of Nordea, is a recent example in the memory of Swedish taxpayers. The government has sent out a proposal for a referral. Many points of consultation have been raised. We are currently compiling them and will then be able to come back with information on how we view the resolution fee in the future.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-256	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance. Leading experts argue: If Nordea leaves the country, the risks in the financial sector still remain. The difference will be that Sweden's influence decreases while we lose resolution fees. We must also see that there are risks in creating conditions that drive companies out of the country. The Minister of Finance should be careful with the signals she's sending. There are probably very few people who can see the benefits of headquarters and jobs moving to other countries.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-257	Mr President, I would like to It is about pursuing a policy that is good for the Swedish business community. It is something that has characterized the government's policy from day one. Sweden has also risen in the international competitiveness league with this government's policy, compared with the policy pursued when Maria Malmer Stenergards's party led Sweden. It is of course important that we have and continue to have good conditions for Swedish companies. That is something that we are pushing. But it is also important that we have proper stability in our financial systems. We're working on that too.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-259	Mr President, I would like to My question is also addressed to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. This weekend and week, there have been two reports of people who have stated that they are minors when they have arrived in Sweden and applied for asylum. Fingerprints have shown that many people from Morocco have been much older than they have stated. I think it was 48 out of 50 adults, although they had indicated that they were minors. At the same time, the results of the first age assessments through the National Board of Forensic Medicine have been in place. It shows that in 76% of the cases in question, it has been adults. But this, of course, has not begun now, but has been going on for a very long time. My question is this: what does the government intend to do to find out and get to grips with the problems caused by the fact that many so far have tricked themselves into a right to stay in Sweden by giving false information?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-262	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, important that there is a correct basis for decision-making on asylum. It is therefore a good thing that we have now extended the possibility of making age determinations for people, so that we can have better information about the actual age of these people. It is a good thing that the possibilities have been extended and extended, and that from now on we have better opportunities to determine people's age, so that we can make correct and fair decisions. On the other hand, once a decision has been made, that decision applies. If you have received asylum, you have the right to stay in Sweden. But if you've got a rejection, it's important that you leave the country.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-264	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is, of course, a good thing that we are finally getting some sort of systematic approach, although there are still many shortcomings with the legislation in force. But does the Minister of Finance really believe that it is correct that people who have reported errors should not have to answer for this? It is of course people who have fooled themselves into the right to stay in Sweden, which has cost the state a great deal in clean subsidies but also in terms of the handling that is going on, and obtained the right to housing that is really only aimed at children.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-266	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I find it deeply upsetting if people have been given asylum on the wrong grounds. I also think, of course, that it is quite wrong if adults have lived mixed with children. That's not how it should be, and that's not how it should work. It is therefore important that we have made this change so that we can better control people's age. On the other hand, we have the order that, once a decision has been reached, it is this decision that applies. We don't usually tear that up.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-267	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Environment Skog. The Swedish forest is an extremely important resource for us to be able to cope with the transition to a sustainable society that is fossil-free. But it requires active and profitable forestry. Over the past year, the Swedish Species Protection Regulation has been up for discussion several times. It has been recognised by the responsible authorities and also in court decisions that there is a need to revise the Species Protection Regulation in order to strengthen, inter alia, legal certainty. But the government doesn't really seem to know what it thinks. The Minister for the Environment first announced that there will be no review. Then the Minister for Rural Affairs said that there may well be a review. And when I asked the Prime Minister about where the government actually stands on this issue, the question was passed on to the Minister for the Environment, who suddenly changed his mind and said that the question of a review is being prepared at the Government Office.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-271	Mr President, I would like to Of course I share the picture. We seem to agree widely that Swedish forestry is an incredibly important industry. It is important that we can take both timber and different types of pulp out of the forest for use in different industries and that we use the forest sustainably and have an active work with biodiversity in the forest. How we do this is regulated, among other things, by directives at European level. As Kristina Yngwe said, we have received a number of judgments recently. They have gone in a slightly different direction, and it is not easy to analyse what they lead to. There are also proposals from the authorities. These are prepared at the Government Office – I have said this in response to, I believe, three different written questions.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-273	Mr President, I would like to I take it that the Minister sees that there are problems with the species protection regulation today. If so, it is very positive. However, the uncertainty that still exists on the part of the government creates a great deal of concern among foresters. It is, of course, important for us in the Center Party to have this balance between active forestry and biodiversity. In fact, the regulation will also have to be revised. If it is the case that the Minister sees that there are problems, when can we expect the government to give a response on the matter?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-275	Mr President, I would like to The issues of the balance between conservation and active use are by no means new and will not be resolved by simple decisions. Active policies that balance these different needs will be needed in the future. One such question is that which comes from the authorities and which we prepare at the Government Office.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-276	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the European Commission warned Sweden that we have the EU's biggest overvaluation in house prices. The big bank Goldman Sachs has also warned against Sweden's high indebtedness. They, with several heavy organisations, want interest reductions to be gradually reduced. What happens when you do nothing about interest rebates is that house prices are rising apace. It's happening all over the country, not just in the Stockholm area. The government is increasing household indebtedness. The generation I belong to is becoming increasingly difficult to own. It will be virtually impossible to save up for the down payment. In addition, you should manage the amortisation. Not doing anything about interest rebates is also bad for the state economy, as costs will rise in the long term. In the Riksdag there are possibilities for a broad parliamentary agreement, as V, MP, C, L and KD have said they can do something about the interest rebates. The only one sitting still in the boat is Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Those who seem to hold back the Minister of Finance are the Moderates. When does the Minister of Finance intend to act in favour of a reduction in interest rebates?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-279	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling raises an important issue, namely the housing market. Just as Håkan Svenneling emphasises, it is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to enter the housing market, as prices are very high, not least in our growth regions. The underlying problem is that there are too few homes. What do you do about that problem? If there are too few homes, what do you do? Well, then you make sure that more housing is built, and that's exactly what the government has been working on from day one: getting up housing. Now we see a record housing building. It's amazing. In particular, the investment aid introduced by the government together with the Left Party makes it possible for many more new homes, not least for young people. A change in interest rebates would also affect all households that have already made their biggest investment in life and bought their own home. That is why it is not a measure that is very high on the wish list of a finance minister or other ministers. That is why the government has done nothing on this issue.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-281	Mr President, I would like to I am also very much in favour of the investment aid that we have implemented. Interest rebates are also deeply problematic from a distribution point of view. 80% of the contributions go to society's 20% richest. This is due, among other things, to the lack of a ceiling for how much you can do in deductions. The lack of ceilings also reinforces the imbalance we see between city and country. Eighty per cent of those who deduct interest over SEK 100 000 are located in the cities, according to the parliamentary investigation service. Swedish Radio's Caliber programme states that 15 people deduct interest of over 1 million. Is it not time to introduce a cap on interest rebates?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-283	Mr President, I would like to I share Håkan Svenneling's view that it is not unproblematic how the interest rebates work. We have the problem that the Alliance Government abolished property tax but did nothing about interest rebates. There is a small paradox in the tax system. You get a deduction but you don't have a property tax. At the same time, it is under these conditions that many households have made their investments. Then it is not easy to change it afterwards. On the other hand, we must follow the issue, and it is not possible to say that it is out of the question to do anything.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-285	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Deputy Minister for Sport Annika Strandhäll. In January 2015, the Parliament decided to follow up government sports policy with a focus on children and young people. According to the Budget Act, the Government must report on the results achieved in the operations in relation to the objectives decided by the Riksdag. The evaluation shows that the government's reporting to the Riksdag needs to be improved. This was also pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office as early as 2004. Parliament has also given the government an announcement that an improvement must be made in this area. However, we can see that the shortcomings remain very much.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-288	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Quicklund for the question. The government of course takes announcements and wishes from the Swedish parliament very seriously. There is no ambition on the part of the government other than to ensure, of course, that the wishes expressed and the dialogue on these issues are met, just as is desired.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-289	Mr President, I would like to The social benefits of sport are enormous, not least in times of major integration and public health challenges. However, what I said remains: that the government's reporting to Parliament must be improved. Reporting also needs – in order to complement further – to enable, among other things, an assessment of whether the grants have been allocated on the basis of the objectives and objectives set by both the Riksdag and the Government.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-290	Mr President, I would like to Yes, and just as I said in my first reply to Saila Quicklund, the government will of course meet the wishes of the Riksdag in these parts. Of course, we also share the view of the incredible social benefits of sport, not least with regard to children and young people. We announced quite a short time ago that we intend to strengthen sport in school and ensure that pupils have the opportunity to move every day. It has a tremendous impact on learning as well.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-293	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The recent debate has been marked by right-wing discussions about what harmful tax changes we are making in the government parties, how they think in different ways that they will be able to stop them and so on. All parties have a little different ideas. And it is probably basically quite good that the opposition is reviewing the government. But it is also the case that the opposition is presenting its own shadow budgets. I would like to hear the Minister for Finance comment on some of the proposals they have against ours. What would these proposals mean for Sweden and our public finances?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-296	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, important that the government be examined, but it is also important that the opposition be examined. Now that the opposition has come with its budgetary movements, it has become very clear that it is a tax-sink alliance that we see before us. It is about tax cuts of up to 70 billion in the overall policy of the alliance parties. Clearly, it would have devastating consequences for activities such as childcare, school, care for the elderly and health care if these tax cuts were to take place. Perhaps the biggest surprise came from the Swedish Democrats, but not in their motion but in the article they wrote in Dagens Industri. The Swedish Democrats are now on the entire Alliance's tax bench agenda. For those who earn 100 000 a month, the Swedish Democrats now want to reduce the tax so that they get 46 000 more in their wallets each year.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-298	Mr President, I would like to Dalal Mughrabi rolled a grenade into an Israeli bus and blew it up. 37 people died, of which 13 children. Now a centre in Palestine has been named after this terrorist, and Norwegian tax money has gone there. The Norwegian State and the Norwegian Ministry for Foreign Affairs have of course reacted and withdrawn the money. Unfortunately, this is quite common in Palestine. There are different schools, tournaments, football teams and other things named after terrorists. Denmark, too, has now followed and reviewed its aid to Palestine. My questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs are: What does Sweden do? What does Sweden's review of aid look like? Can the Foreign Minister guarantee that no Swedish tax money goes to the glorification of terror?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-301	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Of course, it is very important to constantly review our aid and to ensure, in dialogue with the Palestinians and the Palestinian Authority, that every effort is made to combat the glorification of violence and the use of violence. This applies both on the Israeli side and on the Palestinian side.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-302	Mr President, I would like to There are many indications that Swedish tax money has gone to a youth center in Palestine called Abu Dis, which has just named tournaments and football teams in tournaments after terrorists. I assume that the government will look into this and also broadly examine aid to Palestine, because this glorification of terror and the killing of Jews must stop.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-304	Mr President, I would like to We agree that violence should not be glorified. On the contrary, we are actively working for a two-state solution. This means that both Israel and Palestine must deal with these kinds of tendencies and phenomena. We have nothing against examining how our money is spent. On the contrary, we do it constantly. We will also ensure in a dialogue with the Palestinians that the money does not favour violence or violence propaganda.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-307	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. Relations between the United States and North Korea are worse than ever, and both countries are using aggressive rhetoric. The Government stated in connection with Sweden having a seat in the UN Security Council that we in Sweden should now primarily work preventively so that new military conflicts could not arise and act so that existing ones would not escalate. The government has condemned North Korea's recent missile tests and their nuclear program. My question is: How has Sweden acted and how will Sweden act towards the United States in order to bring about a process of détente and peace on the Korean Peninsula? The United States, which is now continuing to strengthen its military presence in the region at the same time as the very aggressive rhetoric, claims that it is considering military interventions in North Korea. A military attack on North Korea would have disastrous consequences.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-312	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, a recurring item on the Security Council's agenda. It is also a recurring point in our public statements, in which we condemn North Korea's missile tests and other moves. It is also something that concerns sanctioning regimes and other things in the Security Council. It is an issue that is constantly on the agenda and on which we are very active. And as you well know, we are a protective force for both the United States and Canada and thus have an important role to play in the relationship with North Korea. However, our position is in principle firm on both sanctions and how we condemn this type of action on their part.
i-6B99kKqhFfr9gf8gnTTCHf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have one more question. South Korea now has a new President who has initiated negotiations between North and South Korea in order to create the conditions for détente and peace in the region. My question is: how will Sweden support the newly appointed President of South Korea in his attempt to create tension?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-316	Mr President, I would like to We do this actively, also via, for example, Sipri. There are various efforts we are making to ensure that there is a so-called track two or, which is now almost becoming a regular system, that the parties meet. We are, of course, in favour of a renewed dialogue, because it is incredibly important that there is a political trail.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-317	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Magdalena Andersson. A week ago we were able to read about a foreigner charged with terrorist crimes in Malmö. The man, who sympathizes with the Islamic State and the Security Service was considered a risk to national security, would be expelled under the Special Alien Control Act. But the man could not be expelled because his terror sympathies were considered capable of leading to an immature treatment in the receiving country. This, therefore, does not mean, for the first time, that people who are considered to pose a risk to our country, a threat of terror, are being released into our streets because expulsion cannot be carried out. The Swedish democrats have been the only party here in the Riksdag that the law should be tightened up so that such people are held in custody until the expulsion decisions can be enforced. My question will be: If the Swedish people want to be held in custody until expulsion is carried out, are they going to vote for the Social Democrats or are they going to vote for the Swedish Democrats?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-321	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely important that we can feel safe and secure in Sweden. This is why the government has greatly strengthened resources for the Security Service but also for the police. We have also increased resources for defence. This is a work that the government will continue to do so that we can all feel safe and secure. I cannot speak in individual cases; that cannot be done by the Minister. However, in the case of persons who, for one reason or another, pose a security threat in Sweden, it is the task of the Swedish Security Service to keep an eye on these persons, and of course I assume that the police have in all such cases. The answer to the question of which party to vote for is that, if you want to be safe and secure, you should of course vote for one of the parties in this government, which has greatly strengthened the resources for us to be safe and secure in Sweden.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-325	Mr President, I would like to Although my question may have been somewhat of a leader, and I think it is quite clear that there are major shortcomings in the government's security policy ambitions, I still think the question is important to ask. The government has taken a position on several occasions saying that the law is sufficient as it is, that those who are sentenced to expulsion under the Special Alien Control Act, i.e. which poses a threat to terror against our country, will walk freely on our streets, possibly with a duty to report to the police, with temporary residence permits in our country. I think it is inadequate.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-327	Mr President, I would like to The Security Service has a clear responsibility to keep an eye on people who need to be watched, and I assume, of course, that they are following this mission. We have strengthened their resources. The question is which party to vote for. Yes, one thing is clear: if you want Anna Kinberg Batra as Prime Minister, if you want to reduce the tax for MPs, bank managers and venture capitalists and if you want the venture capitalists' profit hunt in school to continue, then you should vote for the Swedish Democrats.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-329	Mr President, I would like to Since October 2015, Swedish Chinese publisher Gui Minhai has been imprisoned in China without trial. Formally, Gui Minhai is accused of involvement in a traffic accident, but in fact his crime is that he has published and sold books with critical content. After the disappearance, some of his publishers were also arrested in Hong Kong. One of them has later testified that Gui was abducted by Chinese police, kept isolated and in front of television cameras had to admit alleged crime. This in itself is a gross violation of fundamental human rights. At the same time, we know that this is commonplace in dictatorship China. Minhais Gui's daughter Angela, who on some occasions had the opportunity to talk to her father on the phone, judges the situation as serious and is engaged in a relentless struggle for immediate release. I would now like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what Sweden's fight for Gui Minhai looks like.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-333	Mr President, I would like to We continue to take the case of Minhais Gui very seriously. We continue to raise the case on all possible occasions with high representatives of China, both in Stockholm and Beijing. Ever since he was arrested, we've been working to find a solution. We continue to work to clarify what has happened and is happening to him, but we have not received answers to many of our outstanding questions. Of course, we take this very seriously. We were granted a second consular visit, and the embassy in Beijing visited Gui Minhai on 28 September last year. Then, as with the embassy's previous visit, he stated that he was well. Then he didn't want any visitors. Of course, we find it very remarkable that prisoners are being paraded. We are strongly opposed and strongly opposed to this.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-336	Mr President, I would like to Representatives of the human rights organisation Human Rights Watch argue that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is acting passively and questioning whether all the political and diplomatic tools at its disposal are actually being used. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider it possible to exert political pressure on the Communist regime in Beijing? For example, how did Sweden act when China was recently elected to the UN Human Rights Council?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-338	Mr President, I would like to It is possible that Sofia Damm has more suggestions on what to do. We all use our political contacts, but at the same time we do not want to put our consular cases at risk or make it even more difficult to set them free. We use all the political pressure we have at our disposal. And not only that – we are also the country that publishes MR reports, which also includes legal position and democracy. We are one of the few countries in the world that does.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-341	Mr President, I would like to On 29 May, the newly elected President of France, Emmanuel Macron, received President Putin of Russia. According to Macron, the meeting was extremely frank and direct. Among other things, President Macron was clear as to why he had chosen to ban journalists from the Russian media channels Sputnik and Russia Today from his campaign headquarters during the election campaign. He saw this journalistic activity as clear Russian disinformation and influence campaign. Russian disinformation and advocacy campaigns are also at risk of adversely affecting Sweden's foreign, security and defence policy. For example, we see this in the run-up to the great armaments exercise Aurora 17 which is due to take place in September. There is also a risk that we can see this in the upcoming Swedish elections.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-344	Mr President, I would like to I thank Karin Enström for the question. Here we really need to work together across party boundaries. We need to do this with the help of the evidence that we have acquired by examining how this impact looks now and historically and how one unfortunately paints a Sweden picture that is very negative. We need to plan for the future. We also need strategic communication, which we already have a department working with. We need to work together to ensure that all our authorities are aware of this. We need to improve all capacity, and we need to cooperate with other countries in Europe, as we do. In all these areas we are very active. I am happy to come back to the Foreign Affairs Committee and the other Parliament to tell and discuss more fully before the election movement the Russian influence that we can unfortunately already see in our society.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-348	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. This concerns not only foreign policy but the whole political breadth, and there are many aspects. What are the Foreign Minister and Foreign Affairs doing in diplomatic contacts with Russia to point out and explain that we are not satisfied with this? It is one thing to prepare at home through preventive measures, but what message does the Foreign Minister send?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-351	Mr President, I would like to In all bilateral contacts, this comes up. We make it clear that this is totally unacceptable. They should not interfere in our election movement; they should not try to influence a military exercise that will take place in Sweden. This is clearly presented bilaterally to the ambassador and the Minister when we meet, and we do so via the European Union. We will continue to make this very clear, but we also need to prepare and equip ourselves so that we can respond in a broad way when it happens.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-353	Mr President, I would like to My question concerns pensions and goes to Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll. Some of my family members have recently retired. Both in talks with them and voters who are pensioners, I hear about concerns about their own economic situation. Even future pensioners, who are now working, are concerned about how they will get the pension to be sufficient. Life expectancy is still increasing, and we are increasingly establishing ourselves later on in the labour market. This means that I myself have started to think about how we can manage this long-term and be able to secure a good standard of living and a pension that is decent in relation to the income of our future pensioners.
i-V5jtsNd9TK4eTwDj8mRzmT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Linus Sköld! It is obvious that those who have been involved in building up Sweden should be able to feel confident that they also receive a good pension. Since the government took office, we have removed the pensioner's tax, which the Alliance introduced, for all pensioners who have less than $10,000 a month. We have increased the housing allowance, and by the turn of the year, further pensioners will be exempted from the hateful pensioner's tax. In the Pensions Group, we also make broad and cross-block one of the largest reviews of the Swedish pension system that has been made since it came into place. We look at the increasing life expectancy and look at the basic security of the pension system in order to make the most deprived pensioners feel safe in the future. I am convinced that with the reforms that we are about to put in place within the framework of the pension system, one will definitely be able to feel confident that a good pension will continue to be available in the future.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-360	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. The Christian Democrats in their latest budget are proposing SEK 1 in taxes on plastic bags, which would give 1 billion to the Treasury for important environmental investments. More importantly, it would affect us consumers in the long term to start using bags of other, environmentally friendly materials. It is about microplastics, microscopically small plastic particles that are absorbed by organisms in nature and ultimately end up in humans. Last night on television we were able to follow the sampling of microplastics in Vättern, and there is much evidence that it can be worse in our lakes than in the oceans. The government has raised 64 different taxes but so far said no to taxes on plastic bags. In the light of this new information, is the government prepared to discuss the introduction of taxes on plastic bags?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-365	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that the Christian Democrats are also committed to the negative environmental effects of plastics. I recently met a researcher from Gothenburg who had new information that microplastics have been found in every lake and every sea all over the world. It is a major and serious problem. To overcome this, we need to take a wide range of measures. One is to work towards developing new plastics or alternative materials that can fulfil the same function as plastics today, and we have announced that there will be such an initiative in the autumn budget. We also see that the trade itself is acting decisively in the task it has been given to reduce the use of plastic bags.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-369	Mr President, I would like to The Nature Conservation Association believes that it is insufficient to just call for this and believes that more incentives are needed to achieve it. The fact that Sweden is hosting the major maritime conference in Fiji also obliges. I therefore appeal to the Minister to give strong consideration to introducing taxes on plastic bags.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-372	Mr President, I would like to I do not reject the fact that in the longer term we can have clearer instruments such as taxes or bans. But at present we do not know enough about what the really sustainable alternatives to today's plastic use are. Let me repeat that I am impressed by the strength with which the trade sector has reacted. Three large clothing chains went out yesterday that they will start charging for plastic bags. There are also many interesting initiatives in the grocery trade. A lot of people act, and that's good.
i-94vd4ket7hQ5TQqPkgDRjV	Mr President, I would like to I was pleased to note that Minister Karolina Skog struck a blow to the science of March for Science at the end of April. But, unfortunately, in everything from questions relating to GMOs to questions of eco-food and plant protection products, the government is making proposals that directly contradict scientific expertise. Science shows that organic food production produces greater climate emissions and nutrient leakage, as well as lower production volumes. Nevertheless, the government wants to increase both organic production and organic consumption. In view of this, I would like to ask Karolina Skog whether the eagerness to affirm scientificness expressed by the Minister will be followed up by political action and re-evaluation of the positions taken by the Government which directly contradict science or are based on unsteady scientific bases, such as organic food production.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-378	Mr President, I would like to The fact that there is an active relationship between us in politics and those working in the scientific society is incredibly important. It has become even more important with the world changes we have. However, this should not, as is often the case, be seen here too, as being a homogeneous entity. It's not so simple that you can go to the researchers and listen to what they say– they say one thing, and then you can act. This is very clear in the case of organic food, among other things. We have a great need to increase biodiversity in the used parts of Sweden. It is clear here that more eco-use is an important measure that has a clear impact. Then there are different views in the scientific community, for example when it comes to climate change. We obviously take this into account and have it with us in future decisions.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-380	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. However, if we want to reduce climate emissions, nutrient leakage and the use of pesticides, we should strive to do just that throughout food production, not just in one form of production. Our responsibility for producing more food must also be taken into account. The government has decided to support a specific form of production and thereby succeeds in breaching both the food strategy's objectives and several environmental objectives as well as the generational target. What is the scientific nature of this?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-383	Mr President, I would like to In the food strategy and much of the political discussion, we have found it important that Swedish food production meets consumer demand. Consumers are increasingly calling for eco-food, but unfortunately this applies largely to imported food. In order to meet the interest and get more locally grown food in Swedish stores, it is important to increase the production of organic products in Sweden, as this is what Swedish consumers want.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-386	Mr President, I would like to The European Union is under heavy pressure. It is a relatively troubled world in which we find ourselves. While a lot of unresolved conflicts are going on, a number of them are falling into oblivion. There is an increasingly intense debate in the world about terrorism, migration flows and other things, which affect us mediatedly and which also makes the heads of politicians spin when we try to act and do things right in normal circumstances. No one would have thought President Trump would come to power in the United States, but that was the case. This, of course, has brought the European Union's reputation and attention to toes. In this case, you can think about what's going on. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: what do you think of Mrs Merkel's statement that Europe can no longer rely entirely on others and must take its fate into its own hands?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I'm sure a lot of people are thinking about how we're going to interpret this. I think she was pretty diplomatic. I have been there for so long that I have experienced this type of crisis in the past in the European context, when our relationship with the United States, for example, has been rather strained. So we had it with George Bush, who came to visit. I remember being able to see him. Then it was the same: certain questions should not be asked, for example about the climate. Now we are in a situation where we must ensure that we have good cooperation, that we defend multilateralism and multilateral solutions and that we very closely monitor issues that are matters of European concern and that are important for the functioning of the international community. These include free trade as well as climate agreements and other important issues. We need to stick together, work together and get ready.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-393	Mr President, I would like to President Trumps's debauchery is often repeated in the media. He is against free trade and climate agreements, he has concerns about how to deal with the EU, he is too Brexit and so on. Is there anything more that we in Sweden can do to ensure that the dialogue with the US continues to be good, of course via the EU, Angela Merkel and the other colleagues?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-395	Mr President, I would like to We shall continue to maintain the cohesion of the European community – it is very important – and be a constructive and active partner. We value the transatlantic link highly. Therefore, we continue to ensure that we can have that contact. We have it at ministerial level and we ensure that officials cooperate. We will continue to insist that this is good for both the US and us, but above all we must safeguard the cohesion of the European Union.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-397	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to the Minister for the Environment, Karolina Skog. Last Sunday we received a happy news for me when Karolina Skog and spokesmen Gustav Fridolin and Isabella Lövin presented a new plastic and sea package. Next week there's a big global conference in New York. We are talking about taking leadership for the sea from the Swedish side, which I am very pleased about, but we must also do so at home. The package presented includes new beach cleaning money for the Bohus coast. As a Member of Parliament from the Bohus Coast, this touched me very much. I have had many questions about this, but unfortunately I have not been able to answer much. I wonder if the Minister for the Environment can explain whether there will be any difference for the coastal municipalities. Will we get the trash off the beaches with this money?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-401	Mr President, I would like to Both me and several of my ministers have visited the Bohus coast and those who work to clean the beaches. The Bohus coast is extremely heavily burdened. The currents make it the most burdened coast in Europe when it comes to plastic litter. Large amounts of plastic land on the beaches. It is difficult for the fishermen, the tourism industry, everyone who lives there and, not least, the marine life. They asked for help and said, "We can't do this on our own." We in the government have decided to listen to these municipalities, which are cooperating, and that is why, in the autumn budget, we will give increased support to their work.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-404	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that there will be changes on the Bohus coast, but we must also remove the source. Today, about 8 000 tonnes of plastic come to the Bohus coast a year, 80% of which comes from a source other than Sweden. This is only 15% of what is thrown into the sea. How do Sweden and you act as environmental minister when you meet other environmental ministers to take their responsibility so that we get rid of landfills and so that there is less junk? This is untenable.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-406	Mr President, I would like to At the conference on the world's sea and water, which Sweden and Fiji have initiated and which starts on Monday, plastic and marine littering will be a major issue. Several international organisations and countries have said that it is a priority. This is an important part of our international work. We will strengthen this work, both in the area of aid and in the area of bilateral cooperation, so that we become a force that tackles the problem.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-408	The next questioner is Gunnar Hedberg from the Moderates and then Mattias Vepsä from the Social Democrats. Gunnar Hedberg will be the last to have the opportunity to ask a supplementary question. Other authors may ask only one question. We are doing this in order for more people to have the opportunity to ask a question, but unfortunately the time is not enough for all those who have signed up today.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-410	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and concerns the relocation of government activities in general and the National Centre for Women's Peace specifically. The Government has commissioned Uppsala University to prepare for the transfer of important activities to the new gender equality authority, which will start on 1 January 2018. These are important activities related to knowledge, research-related areas, the development and dissemination of evidence-based knowledge and information about men's violence against women and about honour-related violence and repression. My question to the Minister for Finance is how she can contribute so that skills losses, which in this case affects violent women, do not arise when important activities and competences move from, in this case, a world-class knowledge environment to a new agency in Angered.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-413	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the important question raised by Gunnar Hedberg. According to another former Uppsala University, Uppsala University is a fantastic research centre. It is a world-class university, and it conducts extremely interesting research that also benefits society. The Government has decided to establish a gender equality authority. In this agency, we will gather activities that today are spread across many different agencies to strengthen gender equality efforts in Sweden. This is part of this. The aim is to be able to get a better overall gender equality effort so that we can move faster to achieve gender equality. But of course it is important that we remain vigilant and work properly so that these transfers take place without losing competence or momentum in the work on gender equality. On the contrary, we want to drive this work forward.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-415	Mr President, I would like to The last part of the answer from the Minister for Finance is very promising, because it is a question of not throwing out the baby with the bath water. The activities of women who are victims of violence must not be harmed. An activity like NCK is extremely important for tens of thousands of women in our country.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-416	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is an extremely important activity. Strengthening the work of women exposed to violence, so that women do not have to be subjected to men's violence, is an important part of the government's gender equality policy. It is a policy that we want to continue to develop and push forward so that all women can feel safe throughout Sweden.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-418	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. This week several media have reported on current research results showing that the richest households are hiding large amounts of tax money abroad. One of today's major challenges is the growing inequality between people and within countries. A fundamental idea in the Swedish model is about a functioning and fair tax system. Tax revenues enable us to build high-quality welfare for all. My question is precisely about the current research results which show that the 1,000 richest households in Scandinavia hide more than 30% of the tax that would be paid. The government inherited a difficult economic situation with structural deficits, high unemployment and underinvestment in people's well-being. Now this is turning, and that's good. Every hour worked is important. Each tax chandelier should be used in the best way. And we all have a responsibility.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-423	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Vepsä raises a very important question: All people must do well, even the most privileged. The entire Swedish model is based on the fact that everyone is involved and contributes. Instead, when you do not contribute, but evade your responsibilities, you pass the responsibility on to someone else: to hard-working citizens who pay their taxes and do the right thing, to our elderly people who do not receive the pensions to which they are entitled and to our children who have poorer childcare and poorer schools. That is totally unacceptable. Therefore, the government is working extremely intensively to tighten the net for those who cheat. Step by step, we will ensure that all people pay taxes and do the right thing. In this way, we secure our welfare society.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-427	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Sport Annika Strandhäll. A united parliament has been clear with a goal for the state grant to the sports movement, namely sport for everyone, i.e. inclusion. The target formulation specifically mentions persons with disabilities. Today, the sports movement has just over 2 billion in state subsidies every year. In addition, large public funds come from the local government sector and particularly favourable tax rules. The sports movement has recently explicitly stated in its voice that when it comes to people with disabilities, the objective of sport only applies to everyone when the economy so permits. What does the Minister say about the fact that such a large state contribution does not include everyone and that it does not follow the intentions of the entire parliament and government?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-431	Mr President, I would like to I thank Bengt Eliasson for this question. It is of course the case that we should have a Sweden that includes everyone. Of course, disabled people must have the right and the opportunity to practise sport. As Bengt Eliasson points out in his question, this is the wish of the Riksdag, but it is also the wish of the government. Of course, on the basis of what Bengt Eliasson is now raising, we will also have a dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation on this decision, what it stands for and how we will find a way forward that will ensure that disabled children and young people also have access to sport.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-434	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. A review of the beach protection regulations in Sweden is currently being carried out to stimulate more housing production but also to stimulate green industries. I have a question about the fastest growing green industry, namely the horse industry. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, horses today are not counted as farm animals, which is very strange because Sweden's horses keep the landscape open as much as Sweden's cows. Now that we are discussing how to change the protection of the shores, particularly with regard to the LIS areas, I wonder whether the Minister for the Environment is prepared to ensure that the horse is also classified as a farm animal. I can also ask the question: If the horse is not a farm animal, what are they?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-437	Mr President, I would like to We have announced, from the government's side, a review of the regulations that allow construction in coastal locations in rural areas. That's where we identified a problem. It was a reform launched by the bourgeois government but with which no one is satisfied at present. It is important that we look at them. At the same time, we are dealing with other major and far-reaching reforms carried out by the same bourgeois government in the area of general beach protection. We have a very large number of appeals that are still the result of the very large and sweeping reforms that the bourgeois government chose to carry out without dealing with the issue of the horse industry, when it was in progress. We do not think it is time to make any major changes to the protection of the shore before the reforms that have been carried out have landed. We choose to go forward with a targeted review of the main problem, which is about LIS.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-441	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll. When we get sick leave, we get a day without compensation – a Karen's day. It is now proposed in a study that the withdrawal date should be abolished and that it should instead be a withdrawal. It should be more equal and fair between professions. Who will have an improvement in this reduction compared to the current system, and when will it be introduced?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-444	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Kerstin Nilsson! This is an injustice that we have actually seen for a very long time: that those who work irregularly and long hours have had an exceptionally large carer talk because their financial deductions have been considerably higher than those on the labour market who have regular working hours. Often it is about women who work in health care. We are now putting forward a proposal to change this and, instead, to turn it into a withdrawal, which will mean a much more equitable distribution across the labour market and a better situation for those who today have an unfair deduction. The idea is also that the social partners should have the opportunity to implement this regulatory framework in collective agreements. As things stand, it will enter into force on 1 January 2019.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-447	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Wallström. The Swedish Institute blocked some time ago 14 000 Twitter accounts under the impression that it wanted to prevent online hate speech. Among the blocked were MPs, liberal editorials, the Mayor of Copenhagen and Israel's Ambassador to Sweden. All these people were labeled as net trolls, racists, homophobes or antisemites by a Swedish authority. It is particularly sad and shameful for Sweden that the Israeli ambassador was branded as an anti-Semite. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Has the Minister made an apology to Ambassador Isaac Bachman?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-450	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The Swedish Institute is an independent authority, even if it is under the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Questions concerning the Agency's activities shall be addressed to it. What we know is that all the blockages have now been lifted and all those who have been subjected to this apology have been apologized.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-452	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Sweden has been one of the ten elected members of the UN Security Council since the turn of the year. The first few months have certainly been eventful, and Sweden was also President of the Security Council in the first month, that is, January. Areas that Sweden has focused on have included conflict prevention, gender equality, human rights, disarmament and international law. Then, of course, the work of the Security Council is marked by current events; Syria is constantly on the agenda, and during Sweden's presidency a crisis sailed up in Gambia. It was solved by peaceful means thanks to the UN and the AU. The agenda is therefore constantly changing, and new crises will certainly emerge.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-455	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question – how nice to answer it! We have now been on the Security Council for five months, and we quickly became an actor in the Council. This was because our basic positions and priorities quickly became known. We said that it is about women and women's role in peace and security issues, about conflict prevention and, of course, about openness and transparency also in the way the Security Council operates. That's where we've made a big impression already. Above all, we have established a good relationship with the new Secretary-General; we have ensured that he is more often in the Council and briefar and has a better contact. We are also trying to ensure that there is greater transparency in the work of the Security Council and that we have a direct dialogue with the countries on the agenda. We are very clear now – you know we will ask where the women are. Are they around the tables? Are they as peacekeepers, and are they involved in peace and security processes?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-458	Mr President, I would like to I will return to the question of the Swedish Institute. Thus, as mentioned by Boriana Åberg, an extensive blocking list has been used to stop unwanted persons' access to one of the agency's Twitter accounts. The arguments for the blockages were that the people engaged in drifts, threats and hatreds – often with right-wing or neo-Nazi orientations – and incited to violence. I'm one of those people on the list. The establishment of this list is likely to be contrary to a number of laws and regulations. The Director-General of the Swedish Institute also decided to wipe out the list, even though several people requested it in accordance with the principle of public access. In a response to three written questions recently, responsible Minister Ann Linde confirmed that the Swedish Institute has stated that it has failed in its handling of legal and other aspects. The head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, of course, responsible for all the authorities during the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is how she views the incident and how she intends to restore the victims.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-461	Mr President, I would like to I can only repeat what I said: this is an independent authority, and all questions relating to its conduct must be addressed to it. What you've done is cancel the blockages and apologize. If there is anything else that should be done legally, such processes must be initiated, but it is actually the authority that should be accountable for what it has done. We have in no way been involved in this.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-462	Unfortunately, we have not had time for all those who have signed up for Question Time this time, but everyone in the opposition has had the opportunity to put a question to the government. With this, I would like to thank the ministers and Members present for participating in Question Time.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-464	Mr President, I would like to We shall then resume the debate on bicycle policy. As many speakers before me, from all parties, have said, the cycle is an excellent mode of transport and means of transport. Cycling generates no emissions and also takes very little space. In addition, it is good for public health. In view of the fact that barely 10% of journeys made by people in our country are carried out by bicycle, it is not entirely unreasonable that measures could be taken to increase cycling as a percentage of total travel. It would reasonably be good for the environment, it would work against queues and congestion and it would be good for public health. The national cycling strategy recently presented by the government is – I will admit, Mr President – a step in the right direction in trying to take a holistic approach to bicycle issues and create the conditions for both simpler rules and improved cycling infrastructure as well as increased road safety. It was good so far, but one can only see the strategy as a first, slightly tentative and possibly initial step. Much remains to be done. In view of the fact that for a very long time in this House and in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party have been referring to and creating quite high hopes for the recent cycle strategy, it is clear that the result may not have been very exciting. The world outside the Government Office would have expected more. Much of the social decisions relating to cycling are taken locally and regionally, by municipalities and regions. The role of the national level – our role – must therefore be to create the conditions for cooperation, knowledge sharing and action by regional and municipal decision-makers. Mr President, I would like to As part of the work to be able to provide national conditions, I believe that the competence and support that the Finnish Transport Agency can provide needs to be strengthened. The Finnish Transport Agency is the Government's expert authority in transport matters. It is reasonable to find the key to success and national competence. This could be organised in a national cycle candidacy – a single national resource. This could be an important step towards a better overall approach to cycling issues. As far as I was aware, Mr President, there was no indication of a national cycling office or a national competence in the recent cycle strategy. Of course, it can be corrected. Of course, a bicycle strategy is a good and long-awaited first step, but the advice from me personally, from the Center Party and from the Alliance can be: Redo, do the right thing! Better than this, you, the Social Democrats and the Green Party – it is possible that the V than the party has also been on board. Of course, I support the claims made by the Centre Party and the Alliance on this report, but for time, I am only in favour of reservation 13.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-473	Mr President, I would like to Cycling is an equal and equal means of transport that benefits all categories of income. It is positive that the government is finally presenting a bicycle strategy – we have been waiting for that. It is very important that it now becomes a workshop and that we can actually see concrete results to increase cycling. The UN's 2030 Agenda sets out key objectives: V in achieving sustainability, equality and gender equality. For example, Göran Finnveden, professor of strategic environmental analysis, highlights that we need to look at these specific objectives when we look at traffic planning. Göran Finnveden, like many others, has pointed out that it is worrying that Sweden has left far too much of the equal economic policy we have had – when we look back – in the last 30 years. We also need to take this into account in the transport system. The Left Party would therefore like to stress that cycling is very important in transport planning, as it benefits all income classes – including women and others who may have a tough financial situation. The Left Party has exercised that the national cycling strategy should include a national target to increase the bicycle's share of personal travel. Unfortunately, this goal is not in place, but Traffic Analysis has been commissioned to look at such a goal and to develop a target that is measurable. We look forward to this and hope that it will happen as soon as possible. The Left Party also wants us to resolve the land issue. This issue is complex, as many different landowners can make it difficult to get to cycle paths. It is particularly difficult to get to smooth bike paths, which is important if the bike is to be able to compete with the car. Our proposal has previously been that it should be given a mandate to develop transport plans when building new residential areas and new neighbourhoods. From the outset, it is possible to take account of all modes of transport and to have a whole. Now it has come up in the discussion that perhaps we should also look at how to legally access land better. We wait and see how this work is progressing. We find it very interesting to look at, because we need to resolve these issues if we are really to move forward in transport planning, achieve sustainability goals and perhaps get as far as in some European countries, where it is actually faster to travel by bicycle than by car when going to the centre or to different neighbourhoods. That's where we want to go. I would also like to say something about two-plus-one paths. It is a little clearer in the cycling strategy that there should be a closer look at the assignment to Trafikverket regarding how to ensure bike paths in new infrastructure investments. However, I have asked Anna Johansson – at the latest when she was on the Transport Committee – whether it is possible to clarify the assignment to Trafikverket regarding two-plus-one routes. The Swedish Transport Administration itself has said that it is very difficult to decide when to make the effort to build a cycle path, because it is investment money. The Finnish Transport Administration has relatively small resources and will build a lot of roads for them. Unfortunately, road is one priority in this situation – that should not be the case, but we should look at the sustainable means of transport first, although car is obviously necessary in the case of long-distance transport. The Minister for Infrastructure did not want to make such a clarification to the Finnish Transport Administration in this situation, although the Swedish Transport Administration wants clarification in order to be able to make these decisions when necessary. Today, two-plus-one roads are being built without cycle paths. There have been reports that children can no longer cycle to their neighbors. It's very difficult for people to walk the road on two-plus-one roads. It is important to cater for this, especially in residential areas, so I find it sad that the Minister for Infrastructure did not want to make this clarification. I hope that more people in the Committee on Transport and Tourism are on and that we can see that this is progressing, because we need to resolve this matter. The Left Party has for a long time been exercising that the Swedish Transport Administration should be given the power to impose obligations on train operators for passengers to be able to carry bicycles on trains. We still stand by that. In the report we write that we will further explore the possibilities. On this point, too, we are waiting and hope that progress will be made, because there are many who are calling for a bicycle to be taken on board the train. The share of the bicycle in the number of trips varies in the country – between 7 and 10 per cent. If everyone were to cycle as much as they do in Örebro, Umeå and Lund, the number of bicycle trips in the country would increase by 50 percent. Therefore, we should probably look at how these cities have worked – it's good to highlight the good example in order to move forward. As we continue to work on the cycling strategy, it is important to put it into practice and to ensure that it becomes a reality. I think, as the opponents have pointed out, that the wording is a little fuzzy. It is good that the strategy is in place, but since Trafikverket has a history of prioritising car and road very high, I think it will take quite a lot of hard work to bring in a new culture and a new thinking. I have spoken to various regions, who say that the Swedish Transport Administration has not given priority to bicycle road investments. The plans and the will of the politicians have been there, and the money has been in a pot. Nevertheless, the Finnish Transport Administration has not prioritised this because other work has been prioritised. That's not good. Bicycles are a very good means of transport, which benefits health as well as climate and benefits all income groups. Here we need a change of culture. I believe that the cycling strategy can help to achieve this, but we need to be on all sides in order to really have the effect that we want to see. It is very good to invest more resources in cycling. It could be even more, but it is a good thing that both the urban environment agreement and the cycling strategy are clearly pushing for more resources. In the long term, we should probably consider that all modes of traffic are communication vessels. We need more rail and more cycling– then we could, at least for the next ten years, pick a little bit from the road side. We have a worrying climate change. We have Trump, who is on our heels in a very unpleasant way. He's interrupting the Paris Agreement and things like that. It is important that the outside world now shows that there is technology and willingness to change and that it is more economical to change. If we are to build a green, robust economy, we need sustainable transport, both good transport and passenger transport, to achieve and save this civilisation. The planet will remain, but the question is whether human civilization remains if we do not act quickly. I think the best way is to convince Trump and the United States that it is more economical to change. I would like to endorse Amendment No 4 to the report, which deals with two plus-one routes.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-497	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask for time-winning approval only for reservation 8, but of course we support all the proposals in which the Liberals are present. I would like to start by drawing attention to the fact that we have a number of reservations in the report on bicycle issues, where we think we should have gone further. The reservations are about goals and starting points for cycling, about infrastructure and conditions for increased cycling, about a coherent cycling infrastructure across municipal boundaries, about road safety and traffic rules for cycling, about facilitating combined travel and about electric bicycles. We are not satisfied with the way in which the proposals have been dealt with. The recently presented national cycle strategy developed by the government does not respond to the challenges either. It is also a pity that Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson himself does not participate in the debate in the light of the fact that a great many of the proposals made are dismissed with the existence of a national cycling strategy. It would have been a way of showing how important bicycle issues are if the Minister had taken part in the debate. It is time to move from words to deeds. There are a lot of different proposals. It is a great pity that the proposals are rejected and that there are no other proposals to improve for cycling. Mr President, I would like to Cycling is often set against other modes of transport. But there are other ways to look at the potential. 中 The best way to improve for motorism is to reward cycling. It's a quote from a cyclist I met yesterday on a campaign activity in Sundbyberg. Thank you, Per, for your delivery! 'Cause it's true. Often when we are out talking to citizens in different contexts, there are comments about cycling and how they want to improve. They ask questions about what the Riksdag and the municipalities are doing to make things easier for those who are very climate-smart. I'm glad there's so many points of view. My message to all cyclists and citizens is: Keep pushing the issues, because it is needed. Cycling to the Riksdag is useful. You can see with your own eyes the flaws that exist. Cycling engages. Cycling stirs up discussions. Cycling is also excitement. Cycling is a climate-smart mode of transport that contributes to less urban congestion and has a positive impact on air quality. But is cycling really regarded as a mode of transport of its own? No. Neither planning nor legislation sees cycling as its own mode of transport. Isn't that weird? We in the Liberals believe that it is time to reward cycling and establish that it is a mode of transport of its own. Sometimes we call it the mode of transport or the mode of transport. Let us call cycling a mode of transport of our own. It would really give cycling its own dignity. Not to consider cycling as a separate mode of transport to get from A to B has such a negative effect. This affects the drawing of strings in and between municipalities. This concerns the drafting of legislation, where cycling often falls away. It affects land access legislation that makes it impossible to plan. It is about the authorities' and the Finnish Transport Agency's priorities and assignments and the collection of forces for knowledge and research. It is about the collection of statistics, about budget and follow-up and about the ability to learn from others, best practice. We believe that there is a lack of a national knowledge and experience centre as an actor at national level that can contribute to an increased development of cycling issues. We Liberals have proposed a national cycling office with a bicycle coordinator. Why does the government not want to look at that proposal? Why is this proposal rejected? There's no other option. There is no other player who bears that responsibility today. A coordinating function is needed to gather and disseminate knowledge, among other things. It is about learning good examples of how cycling should be prioritised in target conflicts and in the work of developing guidelines. It is about providing support on various bicycle-related issues that help to facilitate increased and safe cycling. Investments that contribute to increased cycle commuting should be given the same priority as other road-borne vehicle traffic. Cycling highways can be built in urban environments. The Finnish Transport Agency and the municipalities should be able to work together better so that the question of who is the principal should not complicate the drawing of new trails. Improved planning of infrastructure is needed. Mr President, I would like to A few years ago, some colleagues gave me a test. They wanted to see how quickly they could get out of Stockholm City Hall to Ekerö. One took the boat, one took the car, one went by public transport and one cycled. In spite of all the obstacles, the cyclist was fastest. It shows great potential. Mr President, I would like to One way to increase road safety and increase the possibility of cycling is to separate bike paths. This is done in successful countries that are good at cycling planning. There is every reason to increase the proportion of cyclists in passenger transport. But there is also a need for a revised definition of bicycle infrastructure and for the cycle to be promoted as its own mode of transport in the design of the infrastructure. Sweden needs to be better at ensuring that the cycle as a means of transport is included in all infrastructure planning and development. It is an important function of society. Increased cycling is also a profitable business for society. Cycling should be given the same priority as other road-borne vehicle traffic, and more regional cycle paths are needed. They must work regardless of the season, and good accessibility needs to be maintained. Trafikverket also needs to be able to contribute to the work on fast cycle paths in different regions. Mr President, I would like to Legislation is something for which Parliament is responsible. We often say that it is the responsibility of municipalities to contribute to improved infrastructure, but we also have obstacles in legislation. In neither the Road Act nor the Construction Act, cycling is regarded as a mode of transport of its own. This makes it difficult to pull out many of the bike paths that would need to be built. We in the Liberals have repeatedly proposed that we review the legislation. Only in December did we discuss the infrastructure bill and put forward proposals on this very subject. We think it is time to review the legislation. I note that the Green Party has a special opinion in the report on soil access. I would like to ask the Green Party why no concrete proposals have been made to improve the possibility of building bicycle paths. There is also a need for the learning of good examples, which I have also mentioned before. There is much more to be done in this area in addition to legislation. In order to promote increased cycling, there are many improvements to be made in the urban environment and to strengthen the role of the bike. The national cycle strategy became more of a picture of the situation. But where are the sharp proposals? Some proposals are concerned, but not all. This applies, for example, to those in the various exercises. There is a great deal more to be done to remedy the shortcomings. It is often obvious to those travelling by bicycle that, for example, the traffic rules are not adapted for cyclists and that there is a great lack of clarity as to the role of cyclists. This can apply to crossings and when designing bike paths in the street area and at bus stops. In order to make it easier for cyclists, we in the Liberals believe that the traffic regulation needs to be revised and that the traffic legislation should be designed so that the bicycle perspective is clear. We would like to stress the importance of the safety and accessibility of cyclists. It should be put first. Against this background, we believe that a general review of traffic rules should be carried out. It is also about other road safety issues, for example when driving past a cyclist. In many countries this is regulated – one has to hold out one and a half meters from the cyclist – but this is not the case in Sweden. It would also be important to increase safety. Mr President, I would like to Combination travel is an opportunity to expand the housing regions. Imagine being able to take your bike on the train or in public transport! To be able to commute to work both by public transport and by bicycle would be a great improvement in the expansion of housing regions. There are also many other examples that are mentioned in contacts with citizens. A typical example of difficulties is this: When you pack your bike into a bag – can you take it with you on the train? There are many obstacles along the way, and I can say that there can be very big problems. Mr President, I would like to You can sometimes think that cycling is just about exercise, recreation and entertainment, not least after three weeks of Giro d 中 Italia on TV. And soon the Tour de France will arrive. But cycling is much more than that. Cycling is fun. Cycling is a mode of transport. Cycling is good for the climate. Cycling contributes to public health. Cycling gives motorists more space Cycling engages and is exciting. Finally, cycling is for many a question of freedom – a freedom worthy of protection and defence and a freedom that must be developed.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-525	Mr President, I would like to The cycle has an important social function, and it is positive that the cycle as a means of transport is increasing because it has good effects on both public health and the environment, while reducing congestion in cities. But it is also clear that today the traffic environment is not sufficiently adapted to cycling. In 2016, 19 cyclists died in traffic, and approximately 2,100 cyclists are estimated to have been seriously injured. This shows that the proportion of seriously injured cyclists in traffic has increased. Therefore, it is important to work to make cycling more safe by maintaining bike paths and making the necessary regulatory changes, such as adjusting speed to prevent accidents for cyclists in traffic. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the Government's proposal, we had SEK 50 million per year in 2017– 2018 and SEK 100 million in 2019– 2020 for an increased and safer cycling. We want to strengthen the role of the bike as a means of transport. In order to make cycling more attractive, it is essential that the design and further development of the bicycle infrastructure be made more safe. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for the development of the national national network, which consists of some 800 km of road, while the regional planners are responsible for the planning of cycle routes along the rest of the state road network, which consists of approximately 9 000 km of road. Therefore, cooperation between municipalities, regions and state through the Finnish Transport Administration is important to implement plans for more road safety cycling. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to continue to work to increase the safety of cyclists in traffic. More strategic and preventive work is needed to reduce the number of bicycle accidents. Maintaining cycle paths is essential to reduce the number of cycle accidents. It's about ploughing and fixing pits and clearing cycle paths from gravel and other things that otherwise cause cyclists to get injured. Not least, it is important that motorists adapt speed and are more observant on current speed limits as well as on crossings where cyclists and car users meet. The aim of all road safety work is that no one should be killed or seriously injured in traffic. Mr President, I would like to The cycle needs to be given higher priority in urban planning and in infrastructure investments. In particular, it is important to give priority to the accessibility of cyclists and that there are enough bicycle parks that are weather protected at train stations, bus stations and in connection with various shopping centres etc. It has been shown that when planning for cycling, cycling also increases significantly. Another example is to make it possible for cyclists to turn right towards red light to increase cyclists' accessibility and reduce waiting times at crossings. This is allowed in other countries and works well. Mr President, I would like to The municipalities bear a great responsibility for taking measures that facilitate cycling and make cycling more safe. Here it is important that the municipalities can collaborate around bike paths that extend across municipal boundaries. Many municipalities are well ahead when it comes to planning for cycling, but some municipalities are lagging behind. Almost 70 per cent of Sweden's municipalities currently lack a strategy to increase the proportion of cycling trips, and only 10 per cent make an annual evaluation of their bicycle policy. This is not acceptable. Municipalities should work more actively to ensure that more people choose to cycle to work or school and build and maintain cycle paths. More community-wide solutions for cycling paths and bike paths are needed to facilitate and increase cycling across municipal boundaries. Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress that cycling has great development potential as well as transport modes with both good environmental and climate effects and good health effects. On distances of less than five kilometres, the bicycle is often the most appropriate mode of travel. Yet today, the majority of all car journeys are made on distances of less than five kilometres. In order to achieve the climate target and reduce CO2 emissions, it is important to invest in cycling as an alternative means of transport. A study commissioned by Trafikverket shows that investments in bicycle traffic are more economically profitable than previously thought. The study also shows that more people would choose to cycle if society invested in increased accessibility for cyclists. Mr President, I would like to We need an infrastructure that can take advantage of the daily cycling potential of so many people who own a bicycle and are in favour of cycling. Efforts are needed to ensure that cycling is given the same priority as road-borne vehicle traffic. More regional cycling routes are needed to facilitate commuting, and these should be separated from other traffic for safety reasons. In urban areas, quick cycle paths should be planned. The Swedish Transport Administration's work on quick cycle paths should therefore be intensified and accelerated. The Finnish Transport Agency should also provide municipalities with more expertise and standards and facilitate joint municipal solutions. In order for the bike to be an attractive alternative to other means of transport, it is important that conditions are created for people to use it regardless of the season and that it is maintained good accessibility on the cycle paths regardless of weather conditions. Mr President, I would like to The goal is for more people to choose the bike as a means of transport in front of the car. The bicycle shall be an attractive alternative to other means of transport. With this, I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 6 and the Alliance-wide reservation No 9.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-540	Mr President, I would like to We are constantly being reached by new unpleasant news about climate change. Many of us now wonder what is happening. The exciting thing about what Trump is doing now is that we who represent the climate in many cases have large parts of the business community on our side. They realise that it is not, as it was in the past, industry on the one hand and the environment on the other. Climate change threatens the very basis of human activity, our lives, our entrepreneurship, forest growth, water bodies and more. More and more municipalities are becoming aware of this. So what are we gonna do? I am pleased that the Red-Green Government is taking several initiatives that really move forward the positions of fuel change, i.e. reduction teams, and other issues that we have debated in another report. It is also a point to highlight the issue and to provide the conditions for citizens to make their own choices. The task ahead is not small. About ten tonnes of carbon dioxide per year causes the inhabitants of Sweden. We need to get down to a ton. How do we manage that change? The government will expand the track traffic as best it can. We do many other things, such as changing price relationships between car and other modes of transport. We stand for a flight tax, unlike those who simply say that the climate is important but do not dare to stand for an instrument that leads there. What can we do? Well, with the bike you can overnight change your own climate impact. We also benefit electric cars, but this is usually a little more expensive than a bicycle. There is a great potential to work with. I can understand the frustration that the national cycling strategy does not contain any more. I myself can point out several other things that should be included in it. But it must still be put in perspective of what the alliance government did during its eight years in power. A bicycle investigation was set up. That's good. But what was the result of that preparation? In our three years we have barely implemented any of those proposals. It's not investigations that make the world better. It is not investigations that give people greater opportunities to take responsibility for their own footprints on earth. Sweden's cycling cities have pushed for a goal. They're doing the right thing. Everything in politics is certainly not good, but what we Swedes praise us for and which Sweden is known for among other things is the zero vision. It is an effect of a clear goal. The maximum number of road deaths and serious injuries was calculated, the year and action strategies were set up, the instruments evaluated and screwed up, and the first milestones were met. We receive many visits from other countries here in Sweden. They wonder what we've done. It is about purposeful work, and it only works with one goal. It is also about means. I myself come from the municipality that – not for the first time – has been appointed by Cykelpromotion as this year's bike municipality, according to all the measurements reported in the annual cycle survey. What do we do in Lund so that 40 – 50 percent of all person trips in the city take place by bike? Well, we treat the bike as our own mode of transport, not as an accessory to the car. It's really the most basic thing. Certainly we in the Green Party are pushing on these issues, but it is not very difficult to bring the other parties with us. Everyone knows that there is a large proportion of cyclists among all potential votes for the parties. The resistance to doing it well for cyclists is not so great. There are withdrawn stop lines at most intersections. If more people are going to ride a bike, they must feel safe and reasonably safe, with little risk of injury in traffic. If the bikes are in front of the cars at the intersections, so that the cyclists pass only when it turns over to green, the risk of being damaged by a truck or car is much less. I am proud that thanks to our pressure it has become legal for adult cyclists to choose where they want to ride. The fun when cycling among adults increases is that it is all kinds of cyclists, from the n old lady who bikes slowly and young people in lycra clothes to children and parents with special bike cart. Everyone needs to fit in traffic. Then it is better for both pedestrians and motorists that the fast cyclists can choose for themselves whether they want to be on the bike path or out in the street space. It was an accident in my own municipality, where the cyclist was convicted even though it was the motorist who hit him, which caused the debate a little bit. This is also about fair distribution of the street space. Injustice is increasing in the world, and I am among the first to help try to reduce it. In that work you can look at how many people move in one way or the other. It is also reasonable for the distribution of the street space to be proportionate to them. Can we be happy if everyone does as in Lund? No, we absolutely cannot be. The study carried out by Region Skåne shows that the potential for even more people to choose a bike instead of a car is great in Skåne. Of all commuters in Skåne, half could make a 30-minute bicycle trip to work when the speed is 15 kilometres an hour. We cannot be satisfied until everyone makes use of that opportunity. But for this there must be good cycle paths everywhere. Although I support the report as a whole and call for the reservations to be rejected, it is a good point to review the possibility of land access. Then we will have to come back to that question. If Trafikverket is to be able to plan for smooth cycling routes and take advantage of the potential of cycling tourism, the roads must be made straight. I have biked on the Kattegat trail myself. There is a detour of about nine kilometres because an individual landowner has refused to allow the construction of a small bridge crossing his land. The bike path may be interesting as a tourist trail, especially since the nine kilometres detour has great elevation differences to be in Halland, but the bike path is hardly an option for those who want to commute every day between, in this case, Varberg and Falkenberg. I attended a seminar arranged by Visita. In Sweden, tourism is of great economic importance, and I guess it will not be any smaller in the future as it becomes crowded in the big cities of Europe. Then more people want to enjoy what is still left of fresh nature and clean air in Sweden. The combination of small businesses, tourism and bicycle trails is an excellent idea, and then access to land is required to build good cycle paths. The Green Party recently held a congress. Ministers were given a few minutes per person to present to us congressmen what they are doing. What did Sweden's Minister for the Environment do? She would have been able to talk about plastic and other issues she does, but she brought a bicycle up on stage. She told us about what is the basis, the ideology, in the Green Party, namely that we stand for solidarity with future generations and others in the world. The Green Party also stands for freedom. The combination of the two basic concepts, symbolized by a single vehicle, gives the cycle as the best option. Public transport is very good, and we need more public transport as an alternative to car if environmental objectives are to be met. But then we still have to deal with timetables, lines and going with others. The bike gives an unprecedented freedom to move in time and space without planning their trip in advance. That is the aspect of freedom. For example, when marketing apartments for sale, stylish clothes or other gadgets, the trend is to sneak into the ads as an accessory to show that you are modern. That was not the case a few years ago. This, then, has become a sort of symbol of belonging to the future and not to the past. Lund is good, and Skåne is good. But we are also close to the other side of Sundet, where we can study Copenhagen. Copenhagen has evolved, from a veritable car city to Europe's and the world's bicycle capital. The philosophy behind this was coined using a concept now known as 8– 80. What does that mean? Well, it means that if you plan the city so that it's good for 8-year-olds and 80-year-olds, it's good for all of us. When 8-year-olds can have room to play and when they can get safely to and from school by bike – which far too few children in Sweden do – while 80-year-olds feel safe in the environment, the city is good for all of us. It is particularly good that everyone of different ages is out because it is a good way to reduce the breeding ground for xenophobia and suspicion that exists when you do not look each other in the eyes. In this way cycling is a democratic and good way to make the city better. Copenhagen currently has a rather radical mayor. He has been criticised for restricting motorists' ability to park in Copenhagen. He does not deny in any way that it is a clear ambition. When he received criticism for not meeting the motorists' wishes for parking, he replied: I am very confident about it. Nine per cent of all passenger trips in Copenhagen are by car, according to the latest measurement. I'm behind the other 91%.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-564	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by asking about land access. However, this issue has also been dealt with here in Parliament in the near future, through various motions. What makes that question no longer, Karin Svensson Smith? I have noted that the Green Party and Karin Svensson Smith have a specific opinion in the report. What makes it impossible to look at the possibility of planning bike paths in the same way as road planning? The Liberals' proposal for a national cycling office is also rejected. It is said that the consultation body currently in place, the National Cycling Council, fulfils the necessary role. I would like to have a comment on that too.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-567	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to answer both questions. Ground access is an issue that is being worked on. You can choose to stick entirely to your own views, not cooperate with anyone and write reservations. I think it's much more powerful to work with others. Then you have to give. That is the simple answer to that question. I think we have expressed ourselves well in the report. On p. 30, the committee, together – all of them – notes that we believe it is important that the infrastructure for cycling should be designed in such a way that as far as possible the routes and thus the journey times by bicycle are perceived as an adequate alternative to other transports, and that then we must also have the means to do so. With regard to the issue of a national cycling office, I do not have very good experience of breaking out a question from a government agency and putting it in my own office. The Finnish Transport Agency is, with all due respect, a fairly large organisation that works with municipalities and regions throughout Sweden. It is good if they feel that the responsibility for cycling lies with them, instead of breaking it out and putting it in a separate office.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-571	Mr President, I would like to The question of soil access has in any case been addressed a few times. There, the position will not be transferred today. Nevertheless, it would be important to review and continue this work in the long term. As far as the national cycling canteen is concerned, there are no other options presented. Karin Svensson Smith may announce that the Swedish Transport Administration will have an assignment. However, today there is a lack of a clear mission to focus on bicycle issues. It is also a dilemma that the competence for cycling issues is not concentrated on any unit, even in the research carried out on VTI, where there is competence. This means that there is no clear support body for municipalities when they continue their planning and need support. Imagine if you could learn from the good examples available, gather knowledge and research and create good sounding board! Then it would also be possible to work more effectively with the tax money. If you repeat and make bad solutions, it costs money, and it costs to correct. Then you don't get the best infrastructure either. Mr President, I would like to As the Swedish Transport Administration does not have such a mission today, and the Green Party chooses to reject the question of a national cycling office or competence centre, I wonder what the alternative is. What steps do you intend to take to ensure that someone else does this work, Karin Svensson Smith? I believe that we agree that it is important.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-576	Mr President, I would like to As far as soil access is concerned, it is an issue that we do not feel satisfied with in any way. I have, together with Karolina Skog, taken the initiative for a cycle highway between Malmö and Lund. If many are to use it, it is assumed that it is a gene cycle path. So we are definitely working on this issue in the Green Party. As far as a private office is concerned, I stand up to my arguments against it. However, this does not mean that a specific competence centre for cycling research should not be set up. But there is a big difference between a cycling office and a competence centre that is research-oriented. I believe that Nina Lundström will not have reason to complain about it again. I am quite excited about the fact that a competence centre for cycling will be set up in the not too distant future.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-581	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to ask Karin Svensson Smith some questions. Karin Svensson Smith has always profiled herself as an active bicycle politician and also as an intimate cyclist privately. She was in on the announcement of a bicycle strategy. She has probably also been very active in the production of this strategy. That is why I would like to ask: is Karin Svensson Smith satisfied with the result? Is there something she particularly lacks in this strategy?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-584	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we in committee were able to come together for an announcement. The meaning of that is that the state must take responsibility. It is not just the municipalities' task to ensure that there are such conditions that more bicycles instead of driving a car – this is for the sake of climate and health. I am pleased that in just under three years we have achieved more than you did in eight years. Then it was just an investigation and no suggestions. Of course I'd love to see more things eventually. I see the cycling strategy as a first step. What is close at hand and where the pressure from Sweden's cycling cities is quite great is to set a goal for cycling. Only when you have a clear objective can you evaluate and find the right measures to achieve that goal. We need to have more evidence before the goal is formulated. The question of land access is incredibly important to break the planning that over 50 years has put the car first and the bike as something besides if there is room. You have to change that, and we're not done there. It's a good first step, but we need to do more.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-588	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate Karin Svensson Smith being self-critical. Indeed, the bicycle organizations were rather disappointed with the result. The long waiting period of two years has created great expectations. It seemed that it would be involved with the organisations. In the end, they felt a little puffy on the confection. They even said that the government had been cowardly. In addition to this objective, there have been criticisms that there is a lack of resources. In principle, no money has been set aside to talk about. There is also a lack of an idea of evaluation. How do you follow up on this cycle strategy, and who does? Cycling issues as well as society are developing. For example, I miss the issue of preferential taxation. If an employer gives a bicycle to an employee, the tax effect must not be as if the employee had bought the bike himself. Cycling organisations have also raised a question of legislation. It is unclear how the counties may lack funds for stage 1 and stage 2 measures for cycle paths when the county plans are drawn up. It would be very good if Karin Svensson Smith could get to grips with this.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-593	Mr President, I would like to It is probably a correct statement that I have not in any way left these questions. I will continue to work purposefully on this. Again, I have zero vision as a model. You can't have an evaluation if you don't have a goal. You have to have a goal to know where you're going. Then you can also see what measures lead you there and then evaluate and change these funds if you do not reach where you are going. What was also a success story for the zero vision was that there was a clear division of responsibilities, such as what the Finnish Transport Administration would do. In addition, the Finnish Transport Agency was proactive in all the measures that would lead to safer travel on the road without risking fatal accidents. The National Police Board also had a clear mission, which was to monitor speed. I believe that, in the next step of a bicycle strategy, one must actually have a clear objective, a stated responsibility for who will do what and a follow-up. I am pleased that there are so many of us in the committee who are involved in this, because it is a dialogue between the government and the parliament that can give what is our common responsibility, namely that the people of Sweden should have better conditions for cycling.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-596	Mr President, I would like to In connection with Karin Smiths's speech, I have two questions. For several years, 2007– 2016, emissions of climate gases in our country decreased. Now, emissions from traffic and social activity in the country are again increasing. The Green Party sits in the Swedish Government with special responsibility for environmental issues. You announced for a very long time a cycle strategy whose content we have jointly identified is the right mediocre. In her speech, Karin Svensson Smith resides as much in Lund and Denmark as in the rest of the country. Is the Green Party satisfied with the content of the bicycle strategy that has been presented to Parliament? My second question concerns the air tax, which Karin Smith mentioned in her speech. Well, it's not a tax we have to decide here today. But what is, says Karin Svensson Smith, the environmental net effect according to the investigation that the Aviation Tax Investigation has presented? In what way would a flight tax mean an environmental benefit in our country? However, it is because of the environmental benefit that all of us who are participating in today's debate are passionate about bicycles, Mr President. We believe that extending the use of bicycles in our country would also bring environmental benefits. Karin Svensson Smith himself mentioned the airline tax. I am interested to know the environmental impact of the aviation tax investigation and the aviation tax that the government and Karin Svensson Smith are behind.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-602	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, this is the first national cycle strategy, and it should be seen as a first step in something that needs to be much more if we are to achieve the objectives. It is not only alarming that greenhouse gases are not decreasing; there is very little time to turn the ocean vapor that is moving in the wrong direction at high speed. Many steps must be taken to reverse it correctly. I am particularly concerned that cycling among children and young people is decreasing. It is partly the task of the Minister for Infrastructure to help reverse this, but it is also that of the Minister for Education. We have had a great discussion about sport and health, but we must also ensure that children ride to and from school if we are to achieve our goals. So it is not just one minister but several that need to be helped. While making it easier to do the right thing, it is also necessary to make it more expensive to do the wrong thing. In this context, we must also have a flight tax and several other taxes, the overall effect of which is to make oil-borne transport more expensive. We have so little time to reach the goals of moving from ten tonnes of coal to one tonne of coal per inhabitant that both carrots and whips must be used. Just having information and benevolent talk does not help, but you have to have measures that show that you are serious. Then all use of fossil fuels must be made more expensive.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-606	Mr President, I would like to Karin Svensson Smith has two more minutes to answer the questions I asked. Is Karin Svensson Smith, representative of the Green Party in this debate and whose party partner is responsible for environmental policy in the country, satisfied with the content of the bicycle strategy we have to deal with? As far as Question 2 is concerned, Karin Svensson Smith can also take the opportunity to comment on the fact that, when I mention it, the environmental impact of a flight tax. Karin Svensson Smith is driven by the fact that it should be expensive to make mistakes. Is it not even better, Mr President, if it is both wise and rational to do the right thing? According to the Environmental Protection Agency, which we can both lean on as an expert authority, the overall effect at best corresponds to the CO2 emissions of cigarette smoking in our country. This is evident in the aviation tax investigation against which Karin Svensson Smith leans. Is it not a little crazy, Mr President and Karin Svensson Smith, to stick to people with a mobility tax of 1 – 2 billion SEK because you feel it feels good to hit the plane? Wouldn't it be better if that energy had been used to present a cycle strategy with a content that would have brought real environmental benefits? I look forward to the answers.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-611	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party clearly has reservations about being the green voice in the Alliance, whatever the Alliance is. There will be a problem with this, I think. Targets are only interesting if you have credible measures to achieve them. What signal is being sent out to people if flying in Europe costs a couple of hundred cents? If we are to get people to use trains to a greater extent instead of flights and place their holidays within a shorter distance from Sweden, it must be more expensive to fly. There is no way in the world that we can meet climate targets without this. The major problem with the environmental rhetoric presented by the Center Party is that they say they want something, but they say no to all the means that get there. It would be more relevant if you said that the airline tax is not large enough and that it must be more expensive to destroy the climate. If you had criticized us for this, I would have had some respect for it but not for it to be free to destroy. What responsibility do we show for future generations if we have a completely untaxed mode of transport? The flight only pays domestic VAT on its trips. Otherwise, it is a tax profit that destroys the world. We must have very clear instruments. I think the Center has a homework to do, and it is not small in this regard.
i-EbNQbHiU9oSE7MA49WTgLQ	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU16 Bicycle Questions. The report deals with a total of 40 requests from the general exercise period and 12 reservations. I, who have now been in the committee for a couple of years and have been responsible for bicycle issues, can note that the political focus of all parties is constantly growing in terms of bicycle. There is a great deal of interest in cycling in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which is a good thing. We have noticed this in all the representatives, not least in this debate. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. So came at last this writing that we have longed for, waited for and missed. I have stood here in the speaker's chair a number of times and said that it is coming soon, and now it has been tabled. Two years it's taken. In fact, I am pleased with the strategy, but I believe that several of the Alliance representatives in this House have not read it properly. There are several parts. This is, of course, to be followed up, as is clear in the strategy. It states that the follow-up responsibility for this rests with the government. That is why it is of course particularly important that the government that currently runs the country also has the opportunity to follow it up after the 2018 elections and continue with measures and proposals. It is a homework for you: Read the strategy again quite carefully! This is the first strategy of its kind. We had an alliance government for eight years. A bicycle investigation was produced that was good; I have to say that. Kent Johansson did a very good job. A lot of the suggestions and ideas he has developed have also been addressed in connection with the cycling strategy. Of course, it has been part of it. We point to five areas of activity in the further work: the role of cycling in community planning, increased focus on groups of cyclists, the promotion of more functional and user-friendly infrastructure and safe cycling, and research and innovation. The government will of course follow up with concrete assignments and investigate things that will be carried out in the long term. Two missions have already been left. One is about children and young people – how do we get more children and young people to ride their bikes? This is particularly alarming. Twenty years ago, 22 percent of young people aged 15 to 24 used the bicycle daily. Today it's down to 12%. In committee, we have talked on several occasions about how important it is to lay the foundations for being able to use the cycle, not least from a public health perspective, which is probably so important. It's one of the missions the government has decided on. It has gone to VTI together with Boverket. The second assignment is cycle research, what we've been talking about here. Sometimes we talk a little disrespectful about bike chancellery, and we talk about research and other parts. It is also a mission that has been given to VTI, something that I feel safe. Many of us have met representatives from the VTI and know that they have staff who are extremely knowledgeable on these issues. The assignments are to be reported fairly quickly, in order for us to have a basis when decisions will later be made. Not only that: There will be more assignments to be delivered in the near future around several areas that have also been highlighted in the cycle strategy. The memorandum on this subject, which was referred to us at the same time, has been given to us. Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson pointed out when she was with us in the committee in a number of areas that have been referred to with proposals for a legislative amendment that will enter into force on 1 January 2018. It's about cycling on the carriageway even when there's a bike path. It's about speed in the built-up area. It's about bike streets and road markings for bike box. Several of us were with the bike network yesterday and got to experience the advantage of the bike boxes when we biked here in Stockholm, where there is a lot of traffic. It is about simplified marking of bike passage and bike crossing. It is about walking on a walking and cycling path and marking crossings on bike paths. These parts have now been handed out for consultation to a large number of municipalities, organisations and others that are related to us when it comes to bicycle issues. Then it comes back, and the intention is then to introduce it as legislative changes, of course depending on how the referrals went. So there is a lot going on. I think it has sounded a little bit in the debate as if nothing has happened to this, but in two years we have actually delivered a bicycle strategy. It is, once again, a strategy that should be alive. It will also be followed up on the basis of what I said at the beginning. When I read your reservations, I may think that the cycling strategy responds to much of it, but I can also have some understanding that you think you should go further. I would have liked that too if I had been in opposition. I've been an opposition politician locally, so I know exactly how that works. But it is also important to read through what really exists and see it. There will therefore be more proposals on this, not least around the parts that I have highlighted. I would like to raise one more question. In March we had a seminar in committee on the possibility of using the public road space for competition. What is going on now is that it has been made clear that there is no need for legislative changes, but rather for interpretation and adaptation. There, Trafikverket has now appointed people who will work directly against the organisations that so desire to facilitate the work. I see this as a new idea of how the continued work takes place with contacts via Trafikverket and others. So there has been a lot of work on cycling, although we have a lot of things to do. I am, of course, very dismayed that the frequency of injuries has increased when it comes to cyclists. It is not a pleasant reading at all, and I think it shows that we must continue to work on this strategy. We must keep it alive, we must keep it up in the debate and other things. I look forward to our continuing work in committee and in this House working on the bicycle strategy. It is a product that shows that we are heading in the right direction, but it takes time. It was a number of years when we did not do much in the area of cycling, and now we are trying to do so. One more thing that is very pleasing and that several have been involved in is about work locally and regionally. I come from a county where the region has decided to make a regional cycle plan. I was so happy when I read it. An ambitious approach has been taken to the possibility of connecting municipalities in terms of cycle paths, bicycle measures and other things. My municipality was the second best in the ranking of bicycle municipalities. Karin Svensson Smith was quick to say that Lund was the best, and so it was, but Motala is second. We are also working on a cycle plan that is very ambitious, and it shows that there is great trust and responsibility for these issues also locally and regionally. There we have an important continued knowledge to carry with us, and it is also important to show the importance and value of being able to work with these issues. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-638	Mr President, I would like to I noted that Johan Andersson spoke in his speech about reading the national cycle strategy. I have read it and I have also read the report which answers why certain proposals are rejected. I note then that the report on p. 30 states that the committee notes that the issue of, for example, expropriation opportunities – soil access – for national and regional cycling routes is not addressed in the national cycling strategy. There are a number of similar issues that are not dealt with by the national cycling strategy, and therefore I have a question for Johan Andersson just as I had for Karin Svensson Smith. When it comes to the construction of roads you need to be able to put them gent, and you have to think from A to B when planning. We know that, and we have legislation that supports it. Firstly, voluntary agreement is reached, but the next step is legislation that can support planning. There is no such equivalent for cycling. The second dilemma is that the responsible work, the Finnish Transport Agency, with the legislation we have today must not even build a free-standing cycle path unless a road is first constructed. We have a number of such problems that the Riksdag can actually influence, because these issues cannot be left to the municipalities themselves. Then my question to Johan Andersson is: what is the next step, given that the national cycling strategy does not deal with the issue, and it says that there is also no work by the government on the issue, which is still being suggested here is important?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-644	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Nina, for the question. With this, we are not saying that the issue is not important. Still, it's a trixy one. One needs to find a way to deal with this. I think that the question is not dealt with in the cycling strategy. It's a lot about law in this part. My view of the question is that it will nevertheless be dealt with in a slightly different context. Then there's a piece of legislation that's trivial-- we're talking about the Planning and Construction Act, and we're talking about Expropriation Law and other stuff. I have previously been a local politician and also worked a lot on detailed planning issues, and I know how complicated this is. If a landowner refuses, it is almost impossible to move forward today. I would still like to say to Mrs Nina that this issue lives on with us. That it is not decided in connection with the cycle strategy is part of it, but we will have to deal with it differently then.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-647	Mr President, I would like to What can sometimes make you wonder is that this issue has now actually been in Parliament's hands for a few years. There has been a lack of proposals. The issue was included in the revision of the Construction Act 2015. There were Liberals' motions to review this particular issue because cycling does not have the same conditions. The Liberals also put forward a proposal in connection with the infrastructure bill on the same issue, and now we are in the debate again. Lantmäteriet raised the dilemma in its report that raised and problematized the issue. Similarly, Trafikverket has developed a memo on these specific issues in connection with the Swedish hearing. So there are many active players who also see the dilemma that there is no way to take these smooth roads. Karin Svensson Smith calculated what it means in kilometres when you can't pull out the joints. We also have important tourist trails that cannot be drawn up because there is no tool for it. I believe that there is always the opportunity to come up with the voluntary route, but there is also a need for legislative support. Then I think it is absolutely extraordinary if Johan Andersson can develop what the next step is, because one can feel a frustration that this is something that the municipalities can do nothing about. This is where the Riksdag must act. I shall conclude with a little praise, Mr President. I think it is absolutely extraordinary that Johan Andersson touches on the work that is going on on in terms of public roads and such issues. I am pleased that the issues are being brought forward, but I think it is difficult if we constantly shift certain issues to the municipalities that the municipalities cannot afford, and I am a little disappointed that this is the third time in the near future that we could not get any further forward on the issues. I very much hope that we can get some sort of timetable or perhaps a national bicycle candidacy that can make sure to push the issue forward. That would be extraordinary.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-652	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that a bicycle candidate that part, because it is a matter of legislation. It is about the legislation on expropriation and the planning and construction legislation linked to the detailed plans. That's how it is. So there are several parts. Then you can have a thought about why it has not been solved in previous years. This question is not new. I experienced it quite well during my years as municipal councillor, and it is a bit back in time when there have also been other rulers. It also shows that the issue is not so incredibly easy to deal with. I can only insist on what I said about the fact that we must, of course, take the issue with us in the further work in different ways. Nina Lundström has every opportunity to also influence from her side.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-655	Mr President, I would like to Increased cycling is an important climate issue. For every drive that we replace with a bike ride, we make a climate gain. This applies, of course, to all car journeys that we can replace by bicycle and public transport. Bikes and trains. Bike and bus. When I've been on a bicycle holiday in Denmark, Germany and the United States, this has gone really well. In the United States, for example, all the buses had bike carriers in front of me, and they came from the factory, so when I hooked in the heat, all I could do was lift my bike up on the bus and continue to the nearest town. In Denmark almost all trains have special wagons where you can pull the bike. But in Sweden it is both limited and unpredictable if you can take the bike with you in public transport. I can understand that you cannot allow bicycles on buses and trams and in the subway in rush hour traffic here in Stockholm, for example. But it is more difficult to understand that you can't do it in low traffic or why there are so few rural buses that offer this opportunity in Sweden. It is also difficult to understand why some county transport companies allow bicycles to be taken on the train and others not. Some railway companies, such as SJ, have completely removed the possibility of taking bicycles on the train. This makes it very difficult to ride a bicycle in Sweden. If I'm going to go down to Skåne and cycle, I'll hang my bike on the car and drive 50 miles instead of taking my bike on the train. It's really weird. It is also a little strange because this report states that there is an EU regulation that says that railway undertakings should give passengers the opportunity to bring bicycles on trains. It seems that this rule is interpreted differently in other EU countries than in Sweden. After all, we tend to be rather obedient to comply with EU regulations in other contexts. I have a motion in this report. J ag has exercised before and I intend to continue the exercise that we should include a write-in in the Public Transport Act to make it mandatory to make requirements for both procured and commercial traffic so that passengers can take a bicycle with them in public transport. Of course, that requirement should not be designed to crowd passengers out. The committee writes in the report that it thinks this is up to the traffic authorities, and yes, I have every respect for it, but it is strange that this possibility is interpreted so differently in different parts of the country. I have to say, however, that both for work commuters and for those who take a leisure trip and visit relatives and friends and for tourism, it is important that we have a comprehensive and easy-to-understand set of rules on what applies in public transport in Sweden regarding the possibility of combining cycling and public transport.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-663	Mr President, I would like to The transport system is Sweden's bloodstream and a prerequisite for our prosperity and well-being. It is a prerequisite for people to be able to get to and from work, and it is a prerequisite for business and industry to be able to get their goods delivered. Of course, in this bloodstream, a combination of all forms of traffic is needed. But we are here today to discuss Swedish rail and public transport more closely. There is a lot that needs to be done, Mr President, but before I come back to some of the concrete proposals that we are putting forward by the Moderates and the Alliance in this particular report, I have to say a few words about the elephant in the room. It is the elephant that means that the government wants to pledge 230 billion or more – we do not know what the final bill might be – on so-called high-speed trains, while the government can show neither money nor planes for how this is to be done and, at the same time, ignoring many other important needs in today's railways and for that matter on our roads, which will then need to be given priority. The Moderate entrance to the railway is to invest in maintaining and expanding the railway we have. It is a better option than promising hundreds of billions of dollars to an uncertain project that, according to most, not to say all, calculations are very unprofitable for society. Swedish transport policy is facing a choice, Mr President. The government is convulsing on the construction of high-speed railways despite the fact that the project has been sawed both length and cross by experts and there is a lack of broad support in the Riksdag for the project. Here are the Moderates in doubt. Mr President, I would like to The high-speed project costs 230 billion, and the experience from other projects shows that the calculation is usually exceeded. We can also note that EUR 230 billion represents the total budget for rail investment for at least three decades to come. There are some misunderstandings out there, but the government has made it clear that the money for high-speed rail is to be taken from national funds. Anna Johansson has made that very clear. This risks putting aside the rail line we have today and the railway maintenance that we have all promised not to use as a budgetary regulator in the future. It's not fair. At the same time, it is important to look at how the government's rhetoric is linked to the de facto priorities made in crowns and coins. The government has quite high tail movements, but basically you promise around and keep thin. The money you spend is for nothing more than to build Ostlinken and the route Lund – Hässleholm. Lund – Hässleholm justified the Minister for Infrastructure on the need for this effort, whether it is high-speed rail or not. Sometimes you almost wonder if the minister himself believes in the project. But you push it on. High-speed railway would take about 30 years to build – in normal construction. But the government's position is that it should be built at the rate allowed by the economy. That's very unspecific and fuzzy. So no one today living person knows when the project will be completed, and I think everyone can agree that there is no logic in building single blanks of high-speed rail. I have even heard the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism say that we need to think about systems here. Mr President, I would like to While the government's prestige project takes up both time and money, the railway we have today works far too badly. There is a great need for maintenance, from Malmbanan in the north to Västkustbanan in the south, and both goods and commuters become permanent when the infrastructure is not up to date. The Moderates want the infrastructure we have to work. Far too long politicians have been interested in cutting bands and chasing press clippings rather than taking care of what we have. The Alliance government changed it by doubling the allocation for railway maintenance. From the Moderates' side, we continue to prioritise large increases in railway maintenance. In parallel, we say that we need new capacity in our rail system. Everyone who uses it from time to time knows that. It's crowded on a lot of tracks. Here and where we need double tracks, quad tracks and sometimes actually brand new tracks. But for that, we can expand ordinary rail and not build snippets out of twice as expensive high-speed tracks. Furthermore, it should be said, Mr President, that we need rail investments that benefit the whole country. To further strengthen our railways, the Moderates and the Alliance have several proposals. It is about continuing to invest in operation and maintenance. It is a question of developing competition so that more travellers have several options to choose from. It is about reviewing the protection in and around our infrastructure in order to increase the security of those who use it. More players in rail lead to choice for travellers with more departures and lower prices as a result. As the options increase, operators will have to compete for the best quality and experience for travellers – for the benefit of developing the railways as an attractive mode of transport. In aviation, passengers have been able to use different companies for quite some time, but within the railway the alternatives have been few or none. When MTR, to name an example, gives SJ competition on the Stockholm – Gothenburg route, we see that the departures become more and the traveller benefit is greater. But a great deal remains to be done, Mr President, to ensure that competition is equal. I am not going to go into all the questions about depots and signalling systems, but I think it is important for the government and the responsible authorities to ensure that conditions of competition are actually equivalent. If we're going to make the railway attractive, I think it needs to be more than one company that offers long-distance travel. Mr President, I would like to In December 2015, Gunnar Alexandersson presented the final report commissioned by the Alliance Government on the condition of Swedish railways. It is probably the largest review of Swedish railways ever carried out. The study presents a wide range of measures to strengthen our rail network. It is therefore under all criticism – I have said this before, but I maintain it – that the government does not even send this investigation for referral but burys it internally somewhere at the Government Office. It is probably not a wild guess, it may be the case, that the government simply does not like the conclusions drawn by Alexandersson because they go in part in the opposite direction to the policy the government itself pursues. Mr President, I would like to It is high time we realised that the size of the money bag is not crucial for everything – nor for railway maintenance. The maintenance money does not always come out to the tracks; we have seen this when, from different sides of the policy, we try to invest funds to strengthen the railways. The money does not come out, and then it is incredibly important that Trafikverket works more systematically to get better control of what the railway looks like out there and develop a national maintenance plan to ensure that we get the benefit of the money we spend. Unfortunately, the government lets ideology take precedence over results when it comes to railway maintenance. The research and most recently Alexandersson's major investigation shows that competition and more actors that contribute to maintaining our railways increase efficiency. Nevertheless, the government conducts an experimental workshop, where it wants to renationalise maintenance. I am the first to advocate that the Finnish Transport Administration should take greater control and inspection responsibility, Mr President, but more of socialism and monopoly is never a good solution to social problems – nor for the railways. No, it is in competition that the best results can be achieved and every invested crown of taxpayers' money can be best used. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates do not just want a functioning transport system. We want a safe transport system. In April, Stockholm suffered a terrible act of terror through the hijacking of a truck, which drove along Drottninggatan and deprived five people of their lives. In the fight against terrorism, we should never make party political points on people's security. I am therefore in favour of the initiatives taken by the Minister for Infrastructure to talk with haulage industry and truck manufacturers to ensure that similar attacks cannot occur. However, we can see the need for a broader approach when we see that attempts have been made to hijack trains in similar terrorist attacks in Europe and when we see that, despite all the people who are moving there, both at our stations and on board our trains, our rail network does not have adequate safety. We need to consider whether there is reason to review whether there are measures that need to be taken or legislation that needs to be amended in Sweden or in Europe in order to increase the safety of those who use our rail network. The measures must, of course, be proportionate and reasonable. We will never be able to seal off every street, pavement or train station. But we must be one step ahead if we want to ensure that infrastructure does not fall into the hands of those who want to harm. Mr President, I would like to Rail has a key role to play in the transition to a sustainable transport sector. The Moderates want today's railway to be used more efficiently so that more tons of goods can be transported and arrive on time and more passengers will have the opportunity to arrive at work on time. We need stronger incentives for efficient use of the railways during all hours of the day. For some possibly boring but important things like further differentiation of track charges is a step along the way. To introduce a form of congestion charges that adjust traffic depending on the time of day as well as the right of regress are some of the technical but important parts needed on the Swedish railway. Mr President, I would like to To go into landing: The difference in Swedish transport policy goes between those who think that the railway budget should be used to promise expensive projects that can attract more voters and those of us who think that rationality and socio-economic profitability should guide the future of Swedish railway. I hope that the railways will meet a future in which fewer politicians are engaged in just cutting ties and chasing press cuts, and that instead we take care of the infrastructure we have and ensure that more contact lines are replaced, more meeting tracks are built out and maintenance is never slowed down again. It is perhaps more boring for an infrastructure minister, but I promise that it will be more fun for all those commuters who today have to wait for the platformer or sit still on overcrowded trains without access to either information, water or food. Swedish railways have been mismanaged throughout history, which we are still suffering from today. Let us not repeat past mistakes! Maintaining and expanding the railways we have must take precedence over uncertain and unprofitable political prestige projects. People and businesses should be able to trust that the railway we have works and that we will arrive on time. Unfortunately, today is not the day.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-693	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with all our reservations, but for time to come, I only support reservations 4 and 8. As we are discussing rail issues today, I hope that my speech will go on track, but I will start with something else, which seems to have completely derailed: the safety thinking of the Swedish railways. There is concern among me and my fellow train drivers, a concern that has actually existed since 11 September 2001 but which has become more evident since the terrorist attack in Stockholm on 7 April this year. After every act of terror, society is doing everything possible to prevent the next, while terrorists are looking for new mass murder techniques. Society is, unfortunately, always a step behind. Airplanes turn into missiles, and trucks are used as weapons. What's the next thing? Probably a train hijacking, Mr President. To hijack aircraft was a known terror technique used by terrorist organizations in the 1960s and onwards. Passengers were held hostage to meet their political demands. But no one, except the Al-Qaeda terrorists who planned the September 11th attack, had thought that one could use full-blown aircraft as bombs. No one thought anyone was prepared to commit suicide by flying a plane into a building. The method did not exist in the imaginations of the responsible decision-makers. This lack of imagination led to 3 000 deaths that day. After that, the question has been what will be the next grip of terrorists. Last in the line are trucks like murder weapons. It started already in 2014 in Canada and France, where cars were used to drive as many people as possible. The attack in Nice last summer was the first one where a terrorist with a truck managed to kill a lot of people. 86 people lost their lives, and 434 were injured. In the past, trucks filled with explosives have been used in various terrorist attacks. Nevertheless, it has taken time for society to get an eye on this unstoppable method, and the wake-up call has been considerable since Nice. After 11 September, a series of new safety rules were introduced for air traffic in order to avoid acts of the same nature. As far as lorries are concerned, it has been slower, but after the actions of Nice, Berlin, London and most recently Stockholm, the government acted. On the government's website it was stated that Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson invited to a meeting on 13 April to prevent trucks and other vehicles from being used in terrorist attacks. But soon the terrorists will find a new method, something that nothing has thought about because it is about using something that already exists and turning it into a deadly weapon. Unfortunately, there are people who spend all their waking time thinking about new terrorist techniques, and they are far more inventive than those in society who are set to protect us citizens. As early as 2014, I wrote a motion to strengthen the intrusion protection from the passenger compartments into the driver's cab. That motion was discussed by the Transport Committee in spring 2015. I remember the faces of those of you who attended the presentation I gave on the Transport Committee, which showed that you can take over and hijack a train in less than ten seconds. You almost looked like you saw a ghost. The day after my presentation, I was called by SJ AB's head of security. He had heard the rumor that I had given a presentation to the Transport Committee and criticised the safety of X 2000, and he wanted to see me. I met with SJ AB's head of security the next day and held the same image presentation that I held for you in the Transport Committee, and he was shocked. He blamed him for being quite new to the industry, but this thought had not occurred at all in the railway industry – that someone can take over and hijack a train and use it as a rolling missile. On 7 March 2017, two years after my exercise, SJ AB introduced shell protection at its traffic management centre here in Stockholm. What, then, is a traffic control centre? Well, that's where you have staff planning and control of the wagon orbit, diseases, train injuries and such. They introduced shell protection, but not on their own trains. For example, see SJ's double decker X 40, which rolls out here. You can get into the driver's cab by kicking the door in. My last job was on the Öresund train, the X 31s. There you can walk up to the driver's cab, where there are small cardboard doors. You can put your nails in the doorway and push the doors up as easily as possible. When it comes to SJ's flagship X 2000 you meet in the control car, when you reach the door that goes into the engine driver's cab, by a sign where it says Next to the door is a small plastic cover that is removed to get into the driver's cab. The first thing you get hit by is the switches for the security system. Then the driver sits there completely unprotected. When I had given my presentation, the committee's answer was as follows: The committee assumes that the government actively pursues the issue of increased rail safety and that adequate measures are taken to this end. ..................................................... On 6 November of the same year, I put a question to Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson, who said: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The answer I received was astounding. The Minister for Infrastructure replied as follows: ..................................................... In fact, with this reasoning, truck creations would be a matter for the haulage companies themselves, yet the Minister for Infrastructure called a meeting to prevent lorries from being used in terrorist attacks. When we had the first preparation this year of TU17 on rail issues, I asked in committee that we and the Alliance should have a common wording on safety and safety issues. I did not really understand what the Alliance meant by its motion, but it was more so that we could put pressure on the most urgent threat to Swedish railways, i.e. forcing railway undertakings to install safety doors to prevent terrorists from cutting a train. But judge my surprise when I saw the first draft majority text, in which the Alliance only partially wanted to approve my motion but fully approved its own. Then we released our support for the Alliance Movement. We therefore believe that an investigation should be carried out into the safety of trains and railway stations and, if necessary, propose measures to strengthen them. Oh, my God, are they out of control? What kind of investigation? Such talks are already taking place, including with the Minister for Infrastructure and the railway undertakings. And you want this as an announcement! You're breaking open doors. The railway is not a closed system like the airplanes. The railway is an open system. What do you want to introduce – do you want security checks at Stockholm Central? If you have security checks at Stockholm Central you can take the commuter train from Solna and go in, and then you are inside the shell cover. I don't understand what you mean by your reservation. I wonder why the Alliance and the government parties are also, for that matter, so reluctant to ensure that a train cannot be used in terrorist acts. This is a simple and obvious measure such as forcing railway undertakings to install the same kind of safety doors on aircraft. Such doors are now available on the open market. But railway undertakings obviously do not do so on their own without pressure. Mr President, I would like to I was going to move on to another issue, namely Ertms, the European Rail Traffic Management System. We have taken note of the industry association's comments on escalating costs and technology updates that have led to extensive traffic problems and delays. Mr President, I would like to Now it's gonna be interesting. The next track that is next for this giant ERTMS experiment is the Malmbanan. It is worth noting that Bombardier and Ansaldo, who have been lobbying for several years for the rapid deployment of Ertms in the EU, have chosen to cooperate with Russia, including with regard to the speedometer system. The Ertms speedometer system and positioning system, which both companies offer their customers, are based, in addition to traditional speed sensors and the existing GPS system, also on the Russian so-called Glonass system. Glonass is the equivalent of American GPS. Both systems are originally developed and developed primarily for military applications, but in addition to the original function the two systems are now sold for different civilian purposes. It is, of course, quite right that the Russians are now selling Glonass to civilian applications without any restrictions whatsoever and also with a high resolution. That is why it is another question mark that arises in view of the general security policy situation in relation to Russia. Do we want a Swedish railway that is dependent on a Russian satellite positioning system? Should we really allow Trafikverket to equip the important Malmbanan and other Swedish railways with, for that matter, a system that allows Putin to recode the balis and paralyze the important ore exports and all other rail traffic in Sweden? The Swedish Democrats believe that it is time to step back and think about whether we should really allow the EU to impose such an unreliable and vulnerable system. All of you should really think about whether you want to enable Putin to close the Malmbanan and all the other ERTMS-equipped tracks.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-721	Mr President, I would like to In order for people and freight transport operators to feel safe in using the train as a means of transport, well-functioning systems and a functioning market are required that constantly adapts to changing needs. I think we all agree on this. The Center Party, which I represent, and the Alliance actually see this as the only possible approach. Decennial liberalisations, market openings and increased competition – under different political colours of Swedish governments – have led to more departures, lower prices and a significant increase in efficiency. Overall, supply has been better adapted to demand. The good functioning of competition, market opening and liberalisation is confirmed by both research and state authorities. Among other things, the National Road and Road Research Institute (VTI) has shown that the rail market has been positively affected by liberalisation and that competition has contributed to efficiency improvements and innovations. It has become diversity, competition and transparency. But a well-functioning rail market also requires good interaction between those who provide its various functions. Unfortunately, we can see that there are still a number of problems that need to be resolved in order to achieve well-functioning competition. One challenge is linked to the depot availability and another to the railway signalling system. It is the State Transport Agency that has the task of exercising market supervision, which aims to create an efficient and competitively neutral market. Perhaps this does not always seem to be given sufficient priority – could it possibly be because the current government itself does not attach much importance to the issue and perhaps does not share the view that competition and diversity are a way of developing the rail sector? Mr President, I would like to As representatives of the Center Party and of the Alliance, we believe that better competition, more traffic work and greater supply on the tracks is what is needed. Of course, we expect the government to take the remaining steps to level the conditions between the various players in the railways. In 2013, four years ago, the alliance government decided at the invitation of a united transport committee to set up an investigation to make a thorough analysis of the Swedish railways. In December 2015, the investigator, Professor Gunnar Alexandersson, handed over his final report Another train order – beyond the railway knot. Probably this is the largest and most solid review of Swedish railways ever carried out. The investigator presents a wide range of proposals to strengthen the rail system and increase the efficiency of the tracks. The question I am asking myself as a Center Party and an alliance member today is why the government and Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson have failed to even refer the final report. For the world outside Rosenbad, this appears to be a mystery. Mr President, I would like to I am sure that representatives of one of the government parties, Karin Svensson Smith from the Environmental Party or Lars Mejern Larsson from the Social Democrats, will soon be able to explain why Alexandersson's investigation has so far been put on the shelf. Mr President, I would like to Both organised and commercial passenger services use the same rail system today. Examples of commercial traffic are SJ's and MTR's high-speed trains, while most of the regional rail traffic is organised by society with the regions as main financiers and organisers. In recent years, there has been an evasive effect, both on track capacity and on passengers, between these two types of traffic. This is a problem that the chairman of the Transport Committee, Karin Svensson Smith, often raises and highlights. Mr Alexandersson's investigation into the organization of the railways highlighted the problem and felt that the government had to act in order to strengthen the conditions for commercially organised passenger transport. This is important both in order to improve interaction and to strengthen competition between these two categories – community-organised traffic and commercial traffic – so as to ensure order and order. The follow-up work carried out by the Committee on Transport also pointed out that the conditions for commercial passenger transport by rail are not satisfactory and do not follow the overall intentions that existed when the new Public Transport Act was decided a long time ago. In view of this, mysticism is becoming more frequent. Why is the government so passive? Karin Svensson Smith and Lars Mejern Larsson! Do you see the problem? I am absolutely sure that you will shortly explain how you view it. A well-functioning rail system also requires cooperation and coordination with other countries. It is clear at the land borders Sweden – Norway and Sweden – Denmark and on the European continent. Action at EU level is necessary to develop coherent and efficient rail transport markets in Europe. It is about both freight and passenger traffic. Market opening for passenger services in Europe, what is known as the EU's fourth railway package, contributes through increased competition to meet the demands of travellers, landlords and society for an attractive, efficient and sustainable and high-quality supply of services. In fact, I believe that we all share the view that it contributes to increased travel on the railways, in favour of growth, jobs, regional development and the environment. With regard to the attitude of the current Social Democratic and Environmental Party government to the European level, it is a history of not working fully for the introduction of the fourth railway package. Something's bothering me. The government must work consistently and at all levels for the full implementation of the 4th railway package. It would therefore be beneficial if the representatives of the government parties, possibly with the support of the Left Party, could declare here and now that they are fully behind the intentions of the EU's fourth railway package – for transparency, transparency and the smooth operation of rail services throughout Europe. Mr President, I would like to The previous speaker touched on the ERTMS Ertms system. The idea of a common European signalling system is to facilitate cross-border rail traffic across Europe. Basically, it's a nice thought. However, we must take very seriously the signals that come from the railway industry itself, except from the infrastructure operator Trafikverket, about the cost increases, delays and operational problems that the new signalling system risks. The Center Party has taken note of the industry association's comments on escalating costs and technology updates that have led to extensive traffic problems and delays. During a visit to the Transport Committee as late as 2 May this year, representatives of the state freight transport operator Green Cargo also stated that it is unfortunate that the integration of the Ertms signal system is being operated so quickly in Sweden. The Industry Transport Council, which organises the largest freight transport operators in the country, underlines that if this system is to be introduced, it should be done in a way that is harmonised with the rest of Europe and minimises disruption. Mr President, I would like to As a representative of the Center Party, I see extremely strong reasons to pause the introduction of a new signalling system, Ertms, in Sweden until we can see that it is done in a well-prepared and thorough manner. And possible implementation should take place in very close cooperation with the operators of the rail system. Finally, of course, I support the requests and reservations I have put forward during the drafting of the report. But for time winning, I propose here and now consent only to reservations 1 and 4.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-737	Mr President, I would like to Good communications are a prerequisite for Sweden to be able to develop its welfare, increase employment and strengthen its competitiveness. The Christian Democrats' transport policy is based on people being able to live and work throughout the country. A well-functioning public transport system is therefore an important prerequisite for the future development of Sweden as a whole. The railway is a popular and climate-efficient mode of transport that needs to be developed towards greater capacity and operational safety. The Christian Democrats are working for a larger proportion of passenger and freight transport to go by rail. A strong and competitive industry depends on a functioning and well-developed transport infrastructure. We want to invest more in the operation and maintenance of the railways and in new investments. This ensures and improves the functionality of the transport system, and we create the conditions to secure jobs and reduce society's environmental and climate impact while contributing to growth in the country. We also want to enable heavier and longer freight trains to operate on the railways. This would lead to more environmentally friendly, safer and efficient freight transport, which would help, inter alia, to strengthen the competitiveness of the forest industry. In Denmark and some other European countries, trains of up to 835 metres are allowed. With less investment, longer and heavier trains would also be possible in Sweden. This would increase efficiency, benefit the business community, with increased profitability, and also lead to more goods being transported by rail. It is important to harmonise the length and weight of trains within Europe. Mr President, I would like to Large parts of the railway currently in use were built about 150 years ago for traffic that was smaller, lighter and slower. Never before have so many people and so much goods travelled on the railway as in recent years. That is why today we have an overloaded rail system which too often suffers from delays or stops. According to Trafikverket's calculations, the total additional costs for delays in rail traffic amount to approximately SEK 5 billion per year, a cost that is mostly borne by the business community. The Christian Democrats believe that passengers, businesses and industry should be able to rely on the railways to function. New main tracks need to be built, and it is positive that the construction of the Ostlink begins. The railway needs to be maintained, modernised and expanded to match today's and tomorrow's traffic. And more measures are needed to enable more freight and passenger traffic to travel through the railways. This would provide a more environmentally friendly and healthier society. Mr President, I would like to Much of the train stops and delays that occur in the larger regions, where the railways are at their most busy. Stockholm's central and nearby train stations are the hub of the country's train infrastructure and affect rail traffic in the rest of the country. It is therefore important that investments in the operation and maintenance of the railway to a large extent come to Stockholm and the busiest areas. It benefits train traffic throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to From the Christian Democrats' side, we would like to stress that the Finnish Transport Agency should continue to procure railway maintenance in competition. We think it would be directly harmful if all railway maintenance were renationalised. We are therefore critical of the government's position on this. However, we see the need for the Swedish Transport Administration to strengthen its function for permit and delivery control and follow-up of procured work. In fact, the fact that the Government instructs the Swedish Transport Administration to urgently build up a competence to inspect both the status of the railway plant and the work carried out by the contractors is fully in line with what the Christian Democrats have been proposing for a long time. However, the fact that the government also proposes that the state assume the overall responsibility for railway maintenance is harmful. Deregulation and competition are socio-economically cost-effective. Market economy and competition are social development, unlike monopolisation. To procure maintenance through competition are both experts and the government's own investigators in favour. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats, like the other alliance parties, also support the call for a better functioning rail market. Competition in the rail sector leads to more departures, lower prices, efficiency improvements and a supply tailored to demand. We can see that through the establishment of MTR, which competes with SJ, train travel has become cheaper. The availability and standard of comfort on trains has increased. It is important that competition takes place on a level playing field. Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning and accessible public transport system is also of great importance to reduce the environmental impact of the transport sector and to increase access to work commuting. It should be easy and easy to get to work or to school. We believe that public transport is primarily the responsibility of municipalities and regions, but that the state should also help to improve the conditions for travelling collectively both in cities and in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to The new Public Transport Act came into force in 2012. Unfortunately, we can see that there are still major obstacles to achieving the competition, transparency and transparency that were the intention of the law. The committee's follow-up group has also stated in its follow-up to the Public Transport Act that a general review of the law should be carried out. We therefore believe that the Government should urgently examine and evaluate the new Public Transport Act in order to strengthen competition, transparency and transparency. Mr President, I would like to The goal is a functioning transport system with well-functioning services and a socio-economically efficient and sustainable transport policy that facilitates travel for all travellers and goods, while reducing the climate and environmental impact. With this approval, I call for the joint reservations of the Christian Democrats and the Alliance 3 and 9.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-752	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations. I would like to say that I am a diligent train passenger. The patience of Sweden's rail passengers impresses. After many decades of mismanagement of railway maintenance and the absence of important investments, not least during the eight years that the Alliance ruled and braked important projects like the City Line for two years, travel should have slowed down. But that has not been the case. Despite the closure of railways, despite the late arrival of trains and the fact that too many departures are cancelled, rail traffic is increasing rapidly year after year. The desire to travel by train seems to be fundamental. In the Green Party, however, we do not believe that the undeniable loyalty of rail passengers should be taken as an excuse not to invest in rail transport. That trains go on time should be as obvious as water comes when you turn the crane. It shall be unthinkable to choose other means of transport on routes operated by trains. We have seen in countries such as Switzerland and Japan that this is possible. The fact that Sweden has fallen behind does not have to be more than a historical parenthesis, but without political action the situation will persist. Even if the train travel in Sweden impresses from the perspective of how the railway has been managed, it is far from what it could be. Between Sweden's largest cities, aviation still accounts for a significant proportion of travel. The goods are sent across the country, even though the railways and shipping could carry more. Car traffic in major cities is characterised by congestion, emissions and sedentary seating. With an investment in the railways, we can reverse that trend. It is said that a trip around the world by train is energy equivalent to a drive of 1.3 kilometres. It is not so strange then that the domestic transport by car accounts for 40% of the emissions in Sweden. One can compare with what it should have been if there had been a climate-driven distribution of transport. The train also needs something to walk on. Delays are not Gud - given, but they can be fixed, but expanding the railways costs money. The priority must therefore be clear. For every new motorway that is being built, we come further from the climate targets. For every new railway that is built where people want to travel or where goods are sent, it will be easier to reach the climate targets. The infrastructure currently being built must be available for at least 50 to 100 years. The transport system that we politicians choose to prioritise here and now will therefore be crucial for which society is handed over to children and grandchildren. For the Green Party, the priority is simple: Transport planning should be based on achieving the climate targets. The infrastructure that is handed over to the next generation will enable you to cycle or travel collectively to work, to take the train on holiday and that the goods are mainly on rail and by sea. I am pleased to belong to a government base and to the fact that a satisfactory majority in this House wants to invest in the future rather than in the past. For that is exactly what you do when you choose to expand new main courses. What Jessica Rosencrantz called the government's prestige project is a project started by Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg. It was in Almedalen in 2014 that the current government took the initiative to build Sweden. I must admit that I was a little questioning: what was the point of this? Nor did they provide any major resources for the construction of Sweden – there were basically two negotiators and a small office. But it has become an eye-opener for many. In many municipalities where there has been a long struggle between Social Democrats and Moderates, or between other parties, it has been agreed what is needed for cities to develop. What is needed for the region to develop? Yes, it is that more people have access to climate-smart transport in the form of rail. That is why the expectations for us in the political system are very great when we come up with the next national plan. I am grateful not to be among the backward who say that it is new motorways that solve these social problems. The market speaks very clearly. Where do construction companies want to build? Where can you get your new homes sold and rented? Yeah, it's not on a highway! It is in the station locations, in the station communities and at the stops that people want to live. This does not mean at all that people want to give up cars, but people do not want to be dependent on cars for their necessary transport. The same applies to the estate. Here the parties of the Alliance are saying that they want the transfer of long-distance lorry transport to rail and maritime transport, but why is it that you are opposed to the instrument which could of course make the stated objective a reality? Both maritime and rail transport find it very difficult to compete price-wise with lorry traffic. If each mode of transport is to be used for what it is best at, it must have prices that enable the truck to account for the short journeys while the railways and shipping account for the long ones. Another thing that is very important for passengers to be able to get the permission in train traffic that they really deserve is to expand it. I do not understand how you believe, or even dare to argue, that you, as moderate representative of commuters, when you say that they should coexist on the railway that exists now. To patch and fix it and to set a speed limit for the trains so that they can't walk faster than 250 kilometers an hour– how does it help all of us who get late or have to sit and wait because there's a freight train ahead of us? The railway is unique in its infrastructure to the extent that you cannot overtake. This makes it different from the air, the water and the road – there you can drive over, but it is impossible on a railway. That's why we need new main courses. Sweden needs to keep pace. Yesterday we were told that Kenya has opened its new railway. Railways have also been opened in India. New railways have been built in a great many countries. The only one who clearly does not want to invest in climate-smart infrastructure or investment is the President of the United States. But I actually have higher expectations of the Moderates in the Swedish Parliament, because can it not be your best ally? Then, when it comes to order, words like socialism and monopoly are used to say that you want order and order on the railways. But I wonder how these concepts can be used when talking about Japan, Switzerland and Hong Kong, which have the best timetable in the world. There really can the old stick of the train be fulfilled. All the experience of how they have achieved these objectives is that they have a coherent railway organisation, that they have one who manages the traffic instead of having a one-year allocation to the one who is allowed to drive. The driver of the trains also has control over the things needed for the trains to arrive on time. It is urgent to cope with the responsibilities and the crisis ahead of us. We will go from 10 tonnes of carbon dioxide per person per year to one tonne. The railways are absolutely necessary for this. We must extend the railways in accordance with the infrastructure bill that most of us agreed to say yes to in this House. It is our government's responsibility to fill the infrastructure plan with a content that allows people to come on time and manage to reduce their footprint.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-776	Mr President, I would like to Karin Svensson Smith, representative of the Green Party, one of the government bases, speaks well and gladly about rail. In many ways I feel that Karin Svensson Smith shares mine, the Center Party's and the Alliance's analysis of the need for improvements in the functionality, efficiency and reliability of the Swedish rail system. Perhaps we differ in view of some other modes of transport, but we can leave that at the moment. In December 2015, Professor Gunnar Alexandersson presented his final report Another train order – beyond the railway knot. It is probably one of the largest and most solid reviews made by Swedish railways. The investigator presents a wide range of proposals to strengthen the rail system and increase the efficiency of the tracks. The question I put in my speech, to which Karin Svensson Smith is now given the opportunity to answer, is why the government, which Karin Svensson Smiths's party is part of and has a very great influence on, and Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson has failed even to refer the final report. For the world outside Rosenbad, this appears to be a mystery.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-779	Mr President, I would like to Since I myself for most of the time was part of the investigation, when I represented the Traveller Forum as its chairman, I share the view that it was a thorough review. In principle, all actors involved in the railway were allowed to participate and submit their views on how the railway works – a diagnosis of its condition – and their views on the merits and shortcomings of the Finnish Transport Agency, as well as an analysis of what needs to be done to get the railways in order. When it was then handed over to the government, there were some of the proposals that were perhaps less well considered. For example, one of the suggestions was to consider selling SJ and Green Cargo. I find it difficult to see how we might think it was a good idea, because it would not exactly be taking responsibility for the future. After all, in all countries where trains are operated properly, it is ensured that operators are protected and that they are given good conditions for operating their services. The answer to your question is that preparation is continuing in the Government Office. I share the view that it is urgent to deal with the proposals that exist on how to avoid the current situation, i.e. fallen contact lines, persistent delays and shortcomings in rail traffic. However, the organisational proposals are not enough. The railways also need to be expanded, because, as I mentioned in my speech, there is a need for more rail, otherwise we will never be able to get all the trains to go on time.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-782	Mr President, I would like to It must reasonably be the case, Karin Svensson Smith, that if you call an investigation, whether it is an expert investigation, as this was, or a parliamentary investigation, and are intellectually honest, you have to be prepared for the investigation to come up with things that you may not fully share. It's normal in a democracy. However, it does not usually prevent an inquiry from being sent out for a referral, from relying heavily on the wise reactions of the outside world to the proposals contained in it, from compiling the reactions in a referral and returning to the proposals that the governing government thinks are good in a proposal. I therefore repeat the question: for what reason is this investigation not even sent for referral? I noted that the government was not satisfied with parts of it. Is it reason enough to let a very large, solid investigation material lie for the foam somewhere on Rosenbad when the system is in such an immense need of a radical, strategic and organizational change?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-785	Mr President, I would like to We in the Transport Committee were on a trip to Borlänge together with the Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration and some of her employees. At that time she pointed out that several of the proposals in Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation are of the nature that the Swedish Transport Administration itself can implement them. It takes neither a bill nor parliamentary treatment to do so. In a recent study presented, the Finnish Transport Agency has reviewed various possibilities for organising maintenance. The government now has to decide on how to get better currency for the tax money we spend on maintenance. Action is therefore being taken. But I can share the frustration, because I myself ride trains very much, because it requires a more thorough search. What we agreed in the Committee on Transport's evaluation team is that a national rail transport supply plan is needed to resolve the conflicts between regional and interregional rail traffic when the tracks are not enough. It needs to be resolved in a systematic way.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-788	Mr President, I would like to Karin Svensson Smith and I have this in common that we are great rail advocates. There were some interesting articles last week and also a report on high-speed rail. The report said about the start of the MTR to increase the speed of the Western Main Line and that there is additional space to increase the speed without the side acceleration forces being too large. Similarly, the speed is expected to increase along some ninety curves on the southern main rail line between Stockholm and Malmö. For the Stockholm – Malmö route, the travel time reduction could be 25-30 minutes. This would in one stroke reduce travel time from 4 hours and 26 minutes to 4 hours. If, in connection with the upgrading of the new trains in the early 2020s, SJ can increase the speed of the straight routes through Södermanland, Östergötland and Småland from 200 to 250 kilometres per hour, the journey time would be reduced by another 15 minutes. Such a speed increase would reduce travel time to 3 hours and 45 minutes. An even greater time savings can be made after 2028, when the Ostlink between Järna and Linköping is expected to be completed. On this stretch, SJ's new train can earn another 10 – 25 minutes. In this case, the journey time between Malmö and Stockholm can be down to 3 hours and 35 minutes. Direct trains that do not stop along the road's hill can drive the Malmö– Stockholm section in 3 hours and 15 minutes. Does Karin Svensson Smith think it is economically profitable to spend SEK 230 billion on a high speed railway to win 45 minutes of travel time? Do we really get the most railroad for that money?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-792	Mr President, I would like to These questions were also asked when the City Tunnel in Malmö was to be built. Then there were transport economists who said it was the most unprofitable project they had seen. There was a united chorus among transport economists who said that the net present value ratio was not sufficient for this project to be implemented. But I don't think it's possible to bring up a single person in Skåne, or anyone else in the first place, who claims it was stupid to build this tunnel. I firmly argue that if we are to meet climate targets, not only the long-distance travellers need to arrive on time. Anyone who commutes to and from work and freight trains on a daily basis also needs to arrive. It is easy to see which trains arrive on time. They're the ones who can walk at the same speed. Arlanda Express is the train that has the best right time in Sweden. In Hong Kong, Switzerland, and elsewhere where time is kept, the tracks are separated so that trains with high speed have their own tracks, while others are allowed to coexist in another system. This is a prerequisite for achieving the long-term climate goals, because it is unfortunately not enough to come down to 3 hours and 35 minutes to be competitive with aviation. 2 hours and 30 minutes is the limit that exists according to international empirical for rail traffic to be competitive with aviation. We must also count on many more than today to be able to take the train, and it is the policy's responsibility to increase rail traffic for that.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-797	Mr President, I would like to I did not get the answer to my question if it is really worth 230 billion dollars to earn 45 minutes of travel time. I am not at all negative about expanding Swedish railways, but I am sceptical about the way the railway is being built in Sweden. There is talk of a Swedish high-speed railway being completed at the earliest in 2038, that is, in 20 years' time. It takes 20 years to build 75 km of railway in Sweden. Had we built as the Chinese do, as in fact has 60 percent of the world's high-speed railways, we could have completed the Swedish construction in five years. Here I know that Karin Svensson Smith and I agree. The risk is that once the Swedish high-speed railway is completed in 2038, we will have the world's most expensive, the world's newest and the world's most outmoded high-speed railway. Why do I say that? Because there are so many new technologies that are entering the railways. I'm talking about Maglev trains and Hyperloop. A lot of people say that Hyperloop is science fiction. But it was also said to those who claimed in 1997 that in 20 years' time there would be self-driving Volvos in Gothenburg. I think we have an out-of-date high-speed railway in 2038. Therefore, I ask again, Karin Svensson Smith : Is 230 billion well invested money to win only 45 minutes travelling time between Malmö and Stockholm? Should we not wait and perhaps invest in new technologies?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-802	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, interested in new technologies, but if you invest many billions of taxpayers' money, you have to know that what you invest in works. My ideal country for building a new railway is Japan. It is built to withstand extreme weather and earthquakes. What you get back when you build this way, with landscape bridges and concrete foundations, is reduced maintenance costs because the railway is built more robust than today's railway. I think that many of us who have been waiting on trains wondering if we will be home on time, if we can pick up the children before kindergarten closes and if we come on time for work or meeting appreciate a responsible government that is investing in new main courses. We should be very grateful that our ancestors were not so anxious when they wondered whether it was worth borrowing the equivalent of the entire treasury in order to build the first main roads. It became a lever that took Sweden from a poor agricultural country to a modern industrial country with welfare for everyone. We must have similar developments now. It is not the Parliament's task to control the Finnish Transport Administration, but I can see that there is an improvement potential in relation to the plans that exist. Several second opinions have been carried out on the plans for the expansion of new main roads. Their experience should be taken into account when drawing up the next national plan.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-807	Mr President, I would like to In the last debate we were told that the bike is Karin Svensson Smiths's favorite traffic team. It is good to hear that there is room for the railway as well. But something there doesn't seem to be room for is the flight. Karin Svensson Smiths's most common argument that we should build high-speed rail is that it should replace domestic aviation. Mr President, I would like to I believe that 230 billion is a fairly high bill for taxpayers for the Green Party to eradicate domestic aviation. Many people actually want to fly when it's longer distance. The Moderates want to maintain and expand the railways for the regional commuting to work. This puts the government off its feet when you want to spend all your money on building high-speed rail. There is only logic in whether you spend the day between Stockholm and Malmö, and not so many do. The problem in the debate on high-speed trains is that the Green Party and the Social Democrats have been putting out fog curtains for years. Karin Svensson Smith said a few years ago that it would only take five years to build this because the Chinese were so good at it. Anna Johansson sounded early to suggest that private companies could be involved so that taxpayers did not have to pay the bill. Since that discussion, we have all realised that this will take at least 30 years to build and that it will cost at least 230 billion. Karin Svensson Smith has said several times that the logic of building high-speed rail is there if you build the whole system at once. But what we're seeing now is that the government has no money for more than two cops and no plan for the rest. Mr President, I would like to How satisfied is Karin Svensson Smith herself with the promises made by the government regarding high-speed trains? Is Karin Svensson Smith satisfied with the two sections that are included in the Government's plans? Is that good enough?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-814	Mr President, I would like to What has been the main motif of the Swedish negotiation and which has meant that virtually all municipalities and regions that have been involved in the negotiations have said yes is that it is the most important trigger to get housing construction and community building. This is why people in the Jönköping region, Östergötland, Västra Götaland, Skåne and all the places where they have been asked compete with each other: Which one of us can get train paths? Which one of us can get a new station? Which one of us can access trains on time? Which of us can get fast connections to and from Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and between large regional commuting? Train traffic has come to stop, and it must accommodate many more people. Then it is very irresponsible to say: No, you must be content that we patch and fix the existing system, and the trains must not go faster than 250 kilometres per hour. Is it the Moderate line to set a speed limit on the flight as well? If we're going to treat the modes of transport equally, we have to slow it down, too. Domestic aviation is a rather small motive for expanding the railways. It is about green community building, a community building that is like the one that made Sweden grow into an industrial country and had unprecedented growth. For 100 years, between 1870 and 1970, our GDP growth was higher than that of any other country. In the mirage of railway expansion, industries, subcontractors and communities grew. We need to have a corresponding transition now if we're going to get out of fossil society. It is sad that Jessica Rosencrantz, who is not older, is in the same company as Trump and the coal industry, who have not realized that the market is not oil. We cannot drive the future system on oil. We need to move to modern systems.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-820	Mr President, I would like to I can respect many perspectives on this debate, but one thing we have to leave behind is the constant comparison with the 19th century extension. To be honest, the alternative was horse and wagon, just so we've said it. Today we are talking about fairly marginal rest times improvements for a great many billions. I note that Karin Svensson Smith did not answer the question as to whether she is satisfied with what the government has now presented. What worries me is that the government is saying two things at the same time. Promises are made to invest all the 230 billion, but then it turns out that you do not have a plan for the whole. As I said, it is even more preposterous to build small parts into the system with a completely different technology and a twice as high a cost when you have no plan for the rest. I have heard Karin Svensson Smith say several times that the point of a high-speed network is only on the day when the whole system exists. Now we're missing a plan. I therefore ask the question again: Is Karin Svensson Smith satisfied with what the government has presented? Let me take this opportunity to ask: does Karin Svensson Smith see any risks with the fact that the base is quite limited in terms of which soil species and other things we are actually going to dig into to get the main tracks in place? Is there any risk given the lack of planning and money that the government now has that it will be a kind of Hallandsåsen raised to 100, given the size of the project? Is there a limit? The calculator was up to 320 billion before the government got into trouble, and then it quickly went down to 230 again. Does Karin Svensson Smith see any risk that the project might be unduly expensive? Is there even a limit to how much you want to impose on taxpayers at this point in time? Mr President, I would like to Is Karin Svensson Smith satisfied with the two cops that the government has presented, and does she see any risks whatsoever with this type of unsafe project?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-826	Mr President, I would like to What the government has done is to present an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag. I note that the Moderates did not have more money to provide than the government in this respect. Then it is up to Trafikverket to fill in a proposal for content. Our focus is clear: We want to invest in a green community. We do not want to build the infrastructure of the 20th century when we are in the 21st century. Then there is much you can do to make things more efficient. I have the West Coast Line as a horror example of mismanagement of taxpayers' money. It has been built for 32 years and, I think, for about 25 billion, and still does not have a complete double track all the way. There are better ways to take a holistic approach and plan for the future, but then you must also dare to invest in it. Funding is a concern; I can readily admit that. But it cannot be said that we solve this by doing nothing. I find no alternative to a transport system that leaves the fossil society behind. The Moderates are not willing to either economic instruments or investments that enable people to choose to travel without adversely affecting the climate.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-831	Mr President, I would like to Karin Svensson Smith said a few words in the speaker's chair and accused us in the Alliance of not investing in more goods being transported by rail and shipping. Karin has listened poorly to what the Alliance has said, because we want more goods transported by road and rail. In the debate, the Green Party just advocated a 4 billion-kilometre tax on the truck industry. It is a barrier to business and costs a lot to transporters. The truck industry will have additional costs for this. Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Karin Svensson Smith. Goods need to be transported from the factory and the forest to shipping and the railways. That is exactly what the majority of us want – that more goods should be transported by sea and rail. My question is: which modes of transport does the Green Party recommend that goods be transported by sea and rail? That is a question to which I believe many of those who listen are interested in getting answers. Raising taxes does not solve the problem.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-834	Mr President, I would like to I note that in words, both the Christian Democrats and the other alliance parties agree that we should reduce the climate impact of domestic transport by at least 70% by 2030. We have agreed on this in the Environmental Objectives Committee, and it is also the basis for future framework legislation on climate change. You also agree that we cannot have a transport system in the future that is dependent on oil, especially as we know that 60% of Sweden's imports today come from Russia. It would be nice to have a transport system that is less dependent on imports, no matter who you import from. But then the consequence is that you have to find other options. It cannot be the case that long-distance goods are driven by lorry, but it is rail and shipping that are used. It is very easy to ask those who buy transport: why does not a larger share go by sea? Only 3% of domestic transport in Sweden does. Well, it's because it's cheaper with a truck. I was in Luleå on Tuesday, and there told people from Piteå who I met that they find it very sad that their finished modular houses, which they manufacture in Piteå, are driven by truck down to Mälardalen to be sold. Completed houses if anything should go with shipping. But the answer is simple: It is cheaper to take them by truck. We can't have that. If we are to take responsibility for the goal of having a transport system that does not burden future generations, we must dare to stand up for the instruments that lead to it.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-838	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to my question. I think that many who listen are interested in knowing how the Green Party will solve the transport route from the forest and factory to the railways and shipping. I think the trucks should do that job. The Christian Democrats and the alliance parties have proposed longer and heavier lorries, precisely in order to make transport less environmentally friendly. During the bicycle debate earlier, the Environmental Party advocated an additional air tax of SEK 2 billion. They believe that such a tax can solve the global climate issue. We all agree on our climate goals. We will try in every possible way to ensure that we have a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030 and, if possible, be completely fossil-free by 2045. The harmful taxes you bring – air and kilometre taxes – do not solve the problem, Karin Svensson Smith. There are many other things you need to do to deal with it. We have cycling, as we talked about, public transport initiatives and more. Mr President, I would like to Since I did not receive an answer to my previous question, I would like to take this opportunity to ask about the Government's proposal and ambition to nationalise railway maintenance. Is it not better for the Swedish Transport Administration to build a control system in which you control procured and performed work so that you get the work done based on what you have paid for it? Monopolising costs maintenance. Procurement in competition makes it cheaper for us taxpayers. How do you justify the monopolisation of maintenance, Karin Svensson Smith?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-845	Mr President, I would like to I'm starting from what Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation says. The Finnish Transport Agency does not have sufficient knowledge of its own facility to make the right orders. Then the question is what conclusion is drawn from it. It is clear that maintenance costs have increased both during your time and our time, Robert Halef, but it is important to ensure that you have the skills needed, not only to inspect maintenance but also to order what is needed to implement it. Of course, the truck has an extremely important function and will continue to have it in Sweden's transport system. But it is from inland and out to stations and ports that the trucks should go. Driving trucks throughout Sweden is an important reason why we have failed to break the trend of increased greenhouse gases from the transport system. It is very interesting that we should be able to discuss all the proposals we have made on the government side on how to achieve the objective on which we agree, that is to say to establish a non-oil transport system. It would also be interesting if we not only discussed our proposals but also discussed, for example, the Christian Democrats' proposals. I think we need to be able to lift a little bit of our old notions. You probably have to do that both on one side and on the other side. To say that it will be cheaper to use oil and at the same time expect its use to be reduced is, to say the least, naive.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-850	Mr President, I would like to It is said that the person who makes a trip has something to tell. Only during my time in the Transport Committee have I been able to make a journey with the railway authorities, operators and their users – the passengers – when we have completed a completely liberalised rail market in our country, both for passenger transport and for freight. It has been a fast-paced tour, where both operators and consumers have had to adapt to new times with new legal frameworks, regulations and competition, which have led to increased travel and new problems as well as new opportunities to travel in public transport. And the journey continues. I can see when we can go to Malmö, Gothenburg, Stockholm, Oslo and Copenhagen, but also to different places in Europe. Imagine getting on the train in Stockholm and then waking up in Bordeaux, which the committee visited a few years ago – the beautiful port town in southwestern France – and taking a morning walk across the river Garonne before you sit on a coffee shop and get something good to drink. Vips you are in the cradle of Europe, the continent. Travelling easily by train is certainly a dream for many of us in Europe, not least for the climate and jobs, but also for a Europe that sticks together. That is why the four different railway packages are being worked out, that is to say, to create a common rail market. The train accommodates many travelers, it is environmentally friendly – if the electricity is environmentally friendly – it makes less intrusion into nature than the car and allows us travelers to enjoy both nature and cities by just sitting still and looking out. Is there really any more wonderful way to travel than just sit back, put on the headphones and listen to Bruce Springsteen sing Dream baby dream, while watching the landscape change as it whistles by? We who travel a lot also see how the seasons change. I also see how heavier and longer freight trains carry goods throughout the country. It is a society in which transport is used considerably more wisely because we have decommissioned the road network and moved a large part of the goods to the railways and shipping. By allowing longer and heavier trains, according to Trafikverket the capacity on the other railway network is released, which contributes to a better punctuality. That is something we all benefit from. I therefore welcome the fact that the Government considers this to be an issue to be further explored in the forthcoming action plan. Mr President, I would like to The railway, however, is not itself controlled. It is both complicated and expensive to build tracks and switches and ensure that the system is safe both for travellers and for other road users. For example, we still have crossings between trains and cars that are not separate from planes. Signal systems, power lines and switches require rigorous maintenance to prevent traffic from being stopped. Who hasn't heard of non-powered overhead contact lines, signal failures, fire in cables and faults? Rail running has now also become an ever-increasing challenge for rail transport, as this causes operational disruptions with high costs. For the system to be safe, there must be rigorous monitoring and specification of train paths. We must therefore maintain a high level of competence within our authorities, so that they can decide what to do first and what to do most cost-effectively. The Government has commissioned Trafikverket to take measures to organise and conduct delivery follow-up and manual maintenance inspection activities in its own direction regarding railway maintenance. The Finnish Transport Agency has begun its work in carrying out the Government's mission. There has never been as much investment as now in maintaining good infrastructure. Let us make sure that this can be done effectively. It will be if we have a good competence at the client – Trafikverket. Mr President, I would like to All this costs money to maintain in good condition. I am therefore proud that our government is now investing considerable sums of money in maintaining what we have but is also investing in development through Sweden's negotiations and the initiatives that are being taken with regard to new main roads. It allows for higher speeds. The City Line in Stockholm will soon be opened, and it will provide a substantial relief for one of the busiest routes across the country – the hornet waist. Mr President, I would like to It's easy to be excited about a trip. But we also know that the journey is not always so successful. It is something that I experienced last Monday morning on my way here to Stockholm. First I was reached by a text message: The train has been replaced, so the location number is not correct. I guess that's okay. When I was at the station just before departure there was a new text message: Pre-ordered breakfast is unfortunately not available. The train has no serving either. We therefore ask you to purchase any consumption before you get on the train. Then it was only a few minutes before departure. And as if this wasn't enough, there was a new text message: As there may be a lack of space, there are reinforcement buses that take you to Hallsberg, where there is a change to any train to Stockholm. The first bus had already left, and even if I was hungry, just get on the bus. I have said this before: we must not forget the criticism and frustration of travellers, but it must be taken very seriously. I think I'll be fine. But think of families with children and all the elderly. Punctuality on Sweden's railways is now a recurring topic of conversation, even when you have left the station and the platform. Various disruptions and traffic disruptions often cause chaos, as many travelers are involved. Delays do not really affect the trains, but the people who travel. Train delays characterize their everyday lives and affect work in the form of cancelled meetings with customers and more. When I penetrated Hallsberg on the bus, I met Jenny, who works in the care of the elderly and – incredibly – thought it worked pretty well anyway. The frustration about the lack of information, however, she thought was difficult, and she said that there should be an app that suggested how best to get around. I've been thinking about this. Just think of a train of 300 on their way to work, and they'll be an hour late. That means 300 hours of work less. How much does that not cost society? That's why it takes a lot of effort. More needs to be done to get to a robust rail network, and information for both operators and travellers needs to be improved all the time – yes, always. We also need to be better at looking at the whole of the journey, that is, from door to door. The train stops at the station, but the journey probably starts at a bus stop or at a dock waiting for a boat. The stop or station must also be accessible on foot – or by bicycle, as we have talked about earlier today. This requires both safe walking paths throughout the year, including winter time, and parking spaces where bicycles can be set. If we are to manage to double public transport by 2020, which the industry is working for, we all need to help facilitate by ensuring the whole journey. Supply and frequency need to be increased, and public transport needs to be experienced relevant and functional by all travellers. The Parliament has previously endorsed an announcement to the Government to contribute to the doubling target. I would like to express what the Minister for Infrastructure has already said in an interpellation debate, namely that she is following developments and, if necessary, will try further measures to improve the conditions for more people to travel collectively. It must also be easy to buy the right ticket. Travellers are happy to pay for themselves, as long as they know how to do it and where to get a ticket. Resrobot.se, which has been launched, is good for those who have access to the internet. Does everyone? No, and you can't stay connected everywhere either. For those who come here – tourists – it is very important that it becomes clear and easy to get a ticket. Here the industry has a lesson to do, but it seems difficult. Look at other countries! Many have solved it so that they can be paid with their account - or credit card. This is why the committee wants to investigate whether regional public transport authorities should not join a single payment system in the form of an application or a card. In the meantime, resrobot.se should be made more known and new technology used that makes it easier for travellers to buy tickets. Mr President, I would like to Before I forget, of course, I shall support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. To conclude, Mr President, I would just like to say that the follow-up by the Committee on Transport and Tourism to the Public Transport Act that came into force in 2012 clearly shows that there is still much to be done before it becomes as it was intended. As time passes, the goals of travelling collectively and for the railways will change, because our needs change. We will see new technological innovations, which both solve problems and create new ones, and travellers who are increasingly demanding punctuality and comfort. The development – or the journey, if you like – continues. It is well as Karin Boye said in her poem In motion: .....................................................
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-878	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to take part of Lars Mejern Larsson's personal experience of travelling by train. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Lars Mejern Larsson a question. He represents Värmland, where there is a very heavy industry that is dependent on a well-functioning rail system to get its export goods out in the world and where not least the forest industry is also investing fantastic sums of money right now. The product is not intended for the local market in Värmland, or even in Sweden, but is intended for the world. I would like to mention this with the common European signalling system Ertms. In particular, representatives of the freight transport operators, the train operators and the Industry Transport Council – who organise the forest industry, the mineral industry and the steel industry – have expressed extraordinary concern that the goods will have the same experience as Lars Mejern Larsson just shared with the House from his Monday morning and the journey from Värmland to Stockholm. Of course, it is not good enough if you tell the customer about the products that are going out into the world from Värmland, Småland and the rest of the country via SMS that they will not arrive.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-882	Mr President, I would like to I was a little worried that my journey made you sick, Anders Åkesson, but when you mentioned Värmland, it still felt safe. You could have said beautiful Värmland! That is true; there is a large proportion of heavy industry there that depends on freight traffic. As someone put it earlier, it is the bloodstream of society itself. As far as Ertms is concerned, we do not make a different assessment of either the rate of expansion or the needs of the previous government, unless I am mistaken. The plan is solid, and we are pursuing the planning that you from the alliance government started. We have no ambitions to deviate from this system either, but it should be introduced in such a smooth and cost-effective way that is really only possible here at home in Sweden.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-884	Mr President, I would like to In addition to impressions and listening to Bruce Springsteen, one can gain knowledge during the journey towards the introduction of new technology. It is quite right that Ertms is a pan-European approach and a pan-European work, but while the project is being implemented in the Swedish system, the issues, the cost and to some extent the chaos have increased. This government, like the previous one, must also relate to new realities. The forest industry, to just take it as an example, is a very dominant industry in the part of the country that is the beautiful Värmland and from which Lars Mejern Larsson comes. In fact, it is the country's largest net exporter and accounts for a large part of our prosperity. Much in this prosperity and net exports is due to the fact that, in addition to good products, delivery is reliable to their customers in the world. Of course, it must not be the case that the introduction of a new signalling system in Sweden risks jeopardising what is perhaps the most important in terms of freight transport, namely accurate logistics, customer confidence and the ability to arrive at the right time. I am concerned if Lars Mejern Larsson bases his and the government's view of Ertms on eight to ten-year-old data and truths about the system when we have constantly received very worrying signals in the Transport Committee that it is complicated and expensive and that there is still no common European standard. It is against the background of what the Center Party has proposed a pause for the introduction, so that we do not risk Swedish industry. Does Lars Mejern Larsson share that concern?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-888	Mr President, I would like to After all, the Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for maintaining a good dialogue with the industry on implementation, and it is quite certain that this is done. As I understand it and as Anders Åkesson says, the criticism that exists from freight contractors may be less profitable than on passenger traffic. However, if I have understood correctly and do not misinterpret anything, we are not opposed to the Ertms itself, but what we are asking for is compensation, a sort of compensation for the on-board equipment. I don't understand this resistance. The aim is, of course, to facilitate cross-border traffic and to ensure compatibility between the various traffic systems in Europe. Surely that must be a positive thing, and then we see for the day nothing but that Ertms is the solution that we need to move forward with. I think it's the right track.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-891	Mr President, I would like to The former alliance government launched what was called the construction of Sweden, an extension of high-speed railway in Sweden. In 2014, the price tag for this construction was 170 billion. Then, when the Transport Committee went to China, a bomb suddenly came from the Finnish Transport Administration. Suddenly it was said that this high-speed extension would cost 320 billion. The Minister for Infrastructure had to take Trafikverket in the ear and say that we do not accept this, and after a while the price tag was 230 billion instead. The same tours have actually been with Ostlinken. The price tag was first 35 billion. That price tag was raised to 56 billion, and today it is suddenly up to 70 billion. Then you should still expect that where the Ostlink is to be built, the conditions are actually very good for building a railway. I'll get my calculator out, Mr President. The cheese link should therefore cost SEK 70 billion, and the conditions are great. It is 150 km long, which means that the cost of the Ostlink ends up at SEK 4.7 billion per mile of railway. Let's see. How long should the Swedish high-speed railway be if we build it – 75 m il? We multiplice SEK 4.7 billion with 75 mil. What do we end up on? Oh, my God! We end up at SEK 350 billion, Lars Mejern Larsson! For the same amount per mile as it costs to build Ostlinken, where the conditions are best, and if the same price tag applies in the rest of Sweden, we end up at 350 billion SEK. What is Lars Mejern Larsson's comment on this?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-896	Mr President, I would like to I have no reason to criticise Per Klarberg for her math class. I'm sure he's counted right. When it comes to having the courage to make these heavy decisions that put Sweden on the map, then I am happy to be part of it. I will not go back to the 1800s, but it was someone who talked about when the main tracks were built back in time and that was what made Sweden competitive. We can hold two balls in the air at the same time. We manage to make sure that maintenance gets money while we build a new track. We all win that in Sweden.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-899	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, there is someone who goes with untruth here – either the government or the Finnish Transport Administration. As I said, the conditions are very good for building the railway right where the Ostlink will be built. When you build south, and then we talk about Småland, where you will build over the marshes and marshes, the costs are significantly higher for building railway. If we talk about the route between Jönköping and Gothenburg, where the railway will go through mountains, build on bridge, walk through mountains, build on bridge and so on, the price of meters will be significantly higher than it costs to build the Ostlink today. My question remains, Lars Mejern Larsson: Who is going with untruth when it is said that a Swedish high-speed railway will cost 230 billion SEK when it will actually cheese at least 350 billion SEK?
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-902	Mr President, I would like to I have no idea who's going with untruth. What I can say is that we have a higher ambition, and unfortunately it does not seem to be on the bourgeois side at all, either by the Alliance or by the Swedish Democrats. On each occasion, different needs must be weighed against each other. When we look at it in total, we see that building this track will increase the accessibility of a large part of the population and the business community. Lund, Hässleholm and Ostlänken were mentioned. If we look for it, we see that it is precisely where it is crowded on the tracks, and that is why we are betting there first and foremost.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-905	Mr President, I would like to There has been a great deal of talk about Alexandersson's investigation here from the speaker's chair today. That investigation is a little interesting. It was created by the bourgeois government, and the investigator concluded that precisely the most liberal and competitive train traffic, i.e. national traffic, is the worst. There we have had fewer passengers and more difficulty in maintaining quality, and we have not achieved the transport policy objectives very well at all. Regional rail transport, on the other hand, is subsidised by society. There is no competition or profit from the companies. Instead, there is political planning, and we put the money that local politicians think is needed to satisfy the needs of people and businesses in the region in a well-planned way – socio-economically based on social goals to achieve social benefits. This has proved to work best. Where the market has been allowed to run and where there has been competition, it has proved to be the worst. However, the fact that Mr Alexandersson is proposing even greater liberalisation on regional transport, which works best, is very strange. But that's what it looks like in that investigation. I think that this is important in the debate. The liberalisation of the railway market has resulted in some individual operators picking raisins out of the cake on profitable routes such as Gothenburg – Stockholm, while society has to go in and finance train traffic that SJ had previously been able to finance. We have long emphasised that we want SJ to have a clearer social mission in order to be able to have goal-driven planning for our societal goals. This is also mentioned in the report, and the government is investigating the companies. SJ and the goals are being investigated, and there are a little softer writings than before that open to review the community mission. I have given a specific opinion because we would have liked a clearer wording. It goes without saying in these climate times that we must ensure that rail traffic is functional according to climate and social objectives, because we want it to be the basis for the economy. We in the Left Party are very happy that we have been in the budget negotiations and managed to get the pot up to a level so that it is enough for the entire facility. It is quite common in politics that we put the economy a little bit like a bubble without having really done calculations on what is really needed. But in these negotiations we started from the basic figures of the Capacity Investigation which in any case covers the entire facility, which was at least 10 billion a year, and we came up with that in the negotiations. It feels very good, because that's how we have to work with community planning – that we have control of the facilities and that we spend money in a realistic way in order to reach a functionality in our operations. Now it's time to get this out. As other representatives have pointed out, we need to have an organisation so that we can get this out of the way. We look at this quite differently from the Alliance's side and from the Red-Green side, and the Left Party may want to go even further in re-regulating maintenance. But we also see that this is a good step we are taking now, and we believe that there must be gradual re-regulation. What happened when we liberalised was that the Swedish Transport Administration lost an enormous amount of expertise on the railways, as Mr Alexandersson, for example, pointed out. That is why we need to do this slowly and carefully so that we do not crowd out private operators that are necessary now to manage the maintenance and so that we can get control of the facility. We need to do it as carefully and functionally as possible so that we do not lose time, but always work as efficiently as possible to improve maintenance, as it is requested by so many actors in Sweden. It is positive that we are moving in that direction. I have also talked about that we want to review the Public Transport Act and have SJ under public control or at least in some parts take over again so that the public takes care of SJ. I was accused of being a Stalinist here in the pulpit, but many bourgeois voters with whom I have spoken want SJ under government control. I find it strange to talk about socialism or monopolisticism or whatever it is you want to say it is. It is about that we have previously had a mixed economy that has proven to work very well when compared to other places around the world. We have had regulation of the market so that we have been able to develop in a sound and balanced way where social functions are protected and we also allow free trade and that is a sound balance. Many in Sweden, even on the bourgeois side, yearn back to security when we had robust social systems. We believe very much that we need to deal with important elements that have been lost when we have liberalised so far. We also see the need for a regulated payment system. After the liberalisations, you may have the wrong ticket when changing trains and it is a completely different company that takes on. Then you stand there and have no ticket, and it can be difficult to buy tickets and so on. We would like to see what is proposed in the motion in the report, i.e. a common debit card where you can refuel your travel agent and order where to go in Sweden in a simple and functional way. Then we can solve the problem of the fact that there are so many players at the moment. It is also important that we see that the whole of Sweden lives when it comes to how we plan the railways. We can't just give priority to the big cities. We have seen how the gaps are increasing in Sweden in order for the metropolitan regions to take all the resources, and that is where we are expanding different activities and services. We can't go on like that if we're gonna get a coherent country. When you look at this you see how unequally distributed it is with railway in Norrland. I was at a debate in Norrland and had to take both flights and taxis for half an hour – that's the worst thing I know, but I had to, because there was no railway and no public transport that worked. That is precisely why the Left Party thinks that we should invest in night rail traffic to Norrland. When you talk to the northerners it becomes clear that the night train traffic up to Jämtland is crucial for commuting in the whole of Norrland. It is a long enough train to sleep on – a good night's length – and then you can continue to transport up to Norrland from Östersund. If we are to be fairly fair, and if we are to have a railway for the whole of Sweden, it would be an important first step to return to having daily departures up to Östersund. It has been reduced to just having some departure a week. Many in Norrland are concerned and feel betrayed once again by politics in Stockholm. It is very important that we take this into account and are aware of it. We in the Left Party have made a special statement that we want to see this. It would also be a complement to aviation. We want people to reduce on air travel and want to give a signal to the people – as it is basically only with this air tax that is proposed, because it is not very great – that we want to work towards climate goals together and that we choose the sustainable modes of transport. The money we get from the airline tax can be spent on rail, for example on night train traffic or the like. Another important aspect is domestic tourism. The Left Party has a long tradition of protecting the Gotland ferry, and we still do, in this report with a special opinion. It is important to safeguard sustainable transport within the country to different locations and to protect those who live in the area and not just think about tourism. All Gotlanders must have affordable tours. You have to be able to bring your family and friends home without it being terribly expensive. We want a strong Gotland that can accommodate many tourists also in the summer. The whole of Sweden will live, but we also want as many as possible vacations in Sweden and travel by plane as little as possible for needlessly but still have lovely and nice vacations. With regard to Ertms, which has been much discussed here, I am pleased that in our discussions we have achieved that we should wait for the technology and the neighbouring countries before we introduce it so that it is functional and the system is interrelated. The possibility of replacing railway companies more with costs has been discussed. This is an important discussion that we will have to have. It's about helping the companies a little. It is tough when it comes to competition from the haulage industry and the truck industry, and then we need to weigh it up in different ways with environmental support for the railways of different kinds. I know that discussions are already taking place in various ways on better compensation for railway companies. Nevertheless, we must have new signalling systems, and then we need to have knowledge and ground contact in politics and really keep an eye on these complex systems and a kind of control of ERTMS production so that it is functional and that it develops the best technology that has uniformity throughout Europe and so on. We have to have good systems. It should not be profit interests that govern.
i-8f2ed9e10b31f090-931	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Transport and Tourism for an interesting debate so far. I would like to begin by doing what my colleague Jessica Rosencrantz did not quite have time to do, and that is to say that we Moderates naturally support all reservations in which we are involved, but for the time winning, we only ask for the approval of reservations 1 and 5. I would also like to begin by sending all my thoughts and, I am sure, the rest of the Transport Committee's thoughts to those who were seriously or less seriously injured earlier today in the bus accident that took place outside Västerås. Twelve people were taken to hospital, and it is of course never good or in any way desirable when something like that happens in public transport. We shall all be able to get from point A to point B safely without being prevented by unforeseen accidents or anything else. Having listened to this debate in a not very short time – it has taken its little time – one thing can be seen. There are many who care about Swedish rail and public transport. The emphasis has been on discussing the railways, but public transport is not at all an insignificant part of what this report is really about. It is for this reason, among other things, that the Transport Committee recently initiated an evaluation of the new Public Transport Act. That evaluation and many other evaluations and follow-up activities have led to some conclusions. Several of them, in the Moderates and the Alliance, we took the initiative to re-exercise during the general period of exercise, and they are therefore included in this report. They've all been rejected. As regards the need for further evaluation and work on the new Public Transport Act, it is argued that this will be done in the context of the 4th railway package. The fourth railway package is, of course, an important part of this, but the new public transport law is much larger than that relating to the railways. Children's diseases when making a major reform must always be dealt with in a good and responsible way. It is not possible to make a completely perfect reform at the first stage, and without purposeful follow-up work it does not work. You can't just sit and watch. The government's representatives and fellow party members say that they are following the situation closely and are prepared to take the necessary measures. Many of these measures are now identified and identified, but their absence still shines. Take, for example, the ticketing system, which would need to be more common across county boundaries with common solutions for different carriers. Before the elections, we had an infrastructure minister who was very clear: either deliver the industry, or – although we do not really want – we will have to legislate. The clear message meant that the work with Resrobot, which is now being completed even though there is still some work left, was actually initiated. That was the message, nothing else. Since that message disappeared and with a new Minister for Infrastructure, I and many people with me feel that the speed of work has slowed down quite substantially. It plays a marginal role for the representatives of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left to be standing here in this Chamber to speak warmly about this unless it is backed up by something concrete that actually leads forward. A little bit, the common ticket and travel planning system has ended up in a It is there, but because this is still a fairly fresh and young market, there are no market incentives for operators to switch to it altogether. There's a need for leadership. That leadership is missing. Another childhood disease that has been identified in different contexts is how to make the distinction between what should be fully commercial traffic and what should be publicly funded traffic in the context of what is called a public service obligation – thus what enables local public transport authorities to procure traffic – and what that limit should look like. At present, this is very much in the hands of the local regional public transport authority, and that is right and proper. However, when it is quite different where the boundaries are depending on which county you are in and this is based on national legislation, work may need to be done to find a new balance in this new landscape. That is why we have put forward a proposal – fully in accordance with the various proposals of the Follow-up Group – for a national transport supply programme. That, too, is rejected. Planning is a problem that costs public transport and its performers hundreds of millions a year. In the Stockholm region alone, it is about 300 million a year. Nationally, this is probably over half a billion. Reference is made here to a memo and that preparation is ongoing in the Government Office to be able to tighten the penalties and increase the fees for planning. There are many other proposals that have been delivered during this term of office, more or less important. One of them, which I last read today, is about strict liability for ship wrecks. However, we have not received a proposal to increase the penalty for planning, which costs more than half a billion a year in general and makes us less able to develop public transport for those who actually pay for themselves. The existence of a long-term structural deficit in public transport does not affect any of the government's representatives. How our common public transport is to be financed in the long term and how we are to ensure that it can be expanded at the pace required to realise all these amazing ambitions is not mentioned in one word. I may think that if something is boring, because that is the basic condition for us to have the public transport that we are all talking about warmly. Long-term work and a long-term strategy are needed to identify what public transport is in 10 years' time, in 20 years' time, in 30 years' time, when we have autonomous vehicles, when the buses and trains are self-driving and when the border between public transport and private carism may not be quite as clear as it is today. When mobility services begin to blur that boundary, what will the funding look like? I have not been able to identify any thoughts in the government, which is responsible now and have done so during an important part of the transformation towards more autonomous vehicles and mobility services. The government doesn't have that thought. That if anything is a concern. Mr President, I would like to If public transport is to be developed as it should be, we must all help each other, and then it is not enough with PM at the Ministry of Industry. It is not enough not to refer completed studies filled with proposals. It is not enough to see the needs and the problems of action and to monitor and follow them up if we do not come up with the concrete proposals, which have for some time been quite clear what they are really about. No, then you have to show the necessary leadership. Then you have to have the courage to bite the sour apples. Then one must dare to tackle the childhood diseases that the important reform of the new Public Transport Act meant and make the necessary fine-tuning. I understand that it is tricky for Lars Mejern Larsson and Anna Johansson to base themselves on the Left Party, which wants to return to as much government regulation as possible, and the Green Party, which is not alien to that idea, while in some way trying to fix a very liberal legislation's first childhood diseases. I understand it's tricky. I'm sure it's really messy. Karin Svensson Smith can be terribly stubborn; we all know that. But that's no excuse to do nothing. That is one reason to be even more stubborn and make sure that what needs to be fixed in Swedish public transport is now fixed, whatever Emma Wallrup and Karin Svensson Smith put in place.
