i-162acf85688019d8-5	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture 12. The report, which comes from the general exercise period, contains 82 requests for exercise. As in previous years, most of these proposals are dealt with simply because we have already debated and decided them in this House. This debate is going to be a little thin, and it is because we are all waiting for the government's promised animal welfare bill that has not yet arrived. It is not much new that has happened since last year at quite exactly this time when we debated this dossier last time. The government has during this time referred all questions to the forthcoming bill. Of course, there are issues still hanging in the air, and certainly we have a lot of things that we still want, but because everything depends on what will be in the upcoming bill, the debate becomes a bit limp, while animal owners and producers around Sweden are waiting to move forward. During the parliamentary term, at the initiative of the Alliance, Parliament announced to the government to step up work within the EU to improve animal welfare. It is an incredibly important issue that we continue to pursue, because we think it can be done better, it can be done more and it can go much faster than what the government is doing today. For this reason, I will return to the issue in the debate. We in Sweden are good at combining rules and laws with an ethical view of animal husbandry, which in turn leads to healthy and healthy animals. We shall continue to do so, but in a responsible manner. It is important to keep a good standard for animals that are for the good of the animals and not for our own. The moderates' starting point, now just like last year, is that all animals should feel good and have the opportunity to behave in a way that creates a good life. This places high demands on both the living environment and the people who handle animals in everyday life. Sweden operates in a global world, and then animal welfare issues need to be addressed globally and not only domestically. The Swedish food industry is global, and the market is highly competitive with products derived from animals that do not have the same protection as Swedish animals. For us Moderates, animal welfare is important to give priority to international work also from a free trade perspective. Last year I pointed out that it is just as important that the rules within the Union are complied with as they are common. Unfortunately, we still see that this is not the case, which distorts competition and gives law-abiding entrepreneurs in Sweden less competitive conditions in both the short and the long term, because the price picture and nationalism take precedence over quality and good animal welfare. I say it again: Let Sweden be the good example of how good animal welfare also means good animal husbandry! Being a farmer with animal responsibility is not easy. I've never met a farmer who deliberately wanted to harm his animals. Rather, they are doing everything in their power to ensure that animals are as good as possible. But the reality is sometimes reminded, and it is not easy to get the calculations together with pressured prices and a regulatory framework that is a thick forest. This regulatory framework is not always entirely logical or easy to understand. Many of the rules that are laid down may sometimes seem better to us humans than to animals themselves. We therefore want to reduce the degree of detail in the regulatory framework, a proposal that also comes from the Animal Protection investigation that has proposed that a careful balance be struck in each individual case based on animal welfare risks, needs and conditions. According to the government, this issue is also being investigated at the Government Office at the moment. We feel, however, that this very important issue for Swedish competitiveness must not delay any more, and the uncertainty as to when the announced animal welfare bill will really make us want to raise this issue again. It's so easy that things are hidden in investigations, and there's never anything out of it. This issue is too important for that. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we Moderates support all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 1 on animal welfare work in the EU and for reservation 3 on target management in animal welfare legislation.
i-162acf85688019d8-17	Mr President, I would like to Now we are again having an animal welfare debate in the Swedish Parliament, and just as the previous speaker mentioned, it is difficult not to talk about the lack of proposed new animal welfare legislation. We're still waiting. This wait characterises the Swedish debate on animal welfare and, of course, this report, where the vast majority of motions are made precisely because the issues are being prepared in the Government Office within the framework of the work to produce a new animal welfare bill. It was in 1988 that Sweden received the current animal welfare legislation. It was internationally pioneering and is still something we have reason to be proud of. The basis of the legislation is that animals have rights. It is especially important to emphasise the paragraph that all animals should have the right to natural behaviour. It's a very nice paragraph. On the other hand, one can sometimes question whether it really works that way. Mr President, I would like to Much has happened in these almost 30 years. Something that happened in 2011 was that there was an investigation with proposals for a new animal welfare legislation. However, it was long placed by the Alliance Government, and we never saw any legislative proposal during their time in power. Then there was a change of government, and the new government has made promises several times a year that this legislation will come. It has been promised in autumn, then it has been called spring, so it has become autumn again, and so it has been going on. The latest promise is that it will come in the autumn. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats share the investigators' ambitions for animal welfare to be more goal-driven than rule-driven without compromising the high ambitions we have with Swedish animal welfare. We think this is a good starting point, and our ambition is also that the new animal welfare legislation should enable a higher level of ambition in Swedish animal welfare. At the same time, the issue is complex. As a strong supporter of free trade, it is not difficult to see the problems with this today. Countries that protect animal welfare are now losers. Countries that care less will be winners. We have problems in Europe, but we can see Asia and the Thai chicken that the public sector imports to Sweden and is packed with antibiotics. It is clear that there will be a tough competitive situation for Swedish farmers. Because of EU rules, we also have limited possibilities to limit the import of these products, and we also have difficulties in tackling the problems of Swedish farmers losing competitiveness. We cannot fully compensate our farmers. Despite this problem, however, we can still see light sparkles in Sweden. We can see that the price of Swedish products has increased in recent years. It is a positive development, and it is for the benefit of both animals and Swedish farmers that Swedish meat is doing better. I would like to emphasise that we must continue to work towards strengthening Swedish animal welfare while working to increase the competitiveness of producers. The focus must be on both places. It is important to emphasise that the focus must not be on weakened Swedish animal welfare in order to strengthen competitiveness. We would rather see a focus on the overly low welfare payments, on a poor corporate policy of the Red-Green Government that makes it difficult to carry on business in this country and on taxes and other charges that hit farmers very hard. If we can get to grips with these things, there should not be as great a conflict between a living and prosperous Swedish animal production and even stronger animal welfare. All this problem must of course be taken into account when deciding where the level of ambition will be when the bill comes, and we must expect that the bill will come in the autumn and that there will be no further delays. Mr President, I would like to With regard to control programmes, the Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that the industries develop their own animal care programmes where animal care is strengthened while the latest scientific and technical achievements can be exploited. Animal welfare programmes are also a way to improve the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. The programmes can contribute to increased animal welfare, improved animal health, increased willingness to invest and stimulate new innovations and technological development. At the same time, there is concern among some, and it is therefore important to emphasise that these control programmes must never contribute to reducing animal welfare. Having said that, I would like to support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 4 and 5.
i-162acf85688019d8-28	Mr President, I would like to In this report, I think that a great many important things are being dealt with and, like many other things, we should deal with and talk about them in a serious way. However, I shall limit myself because there are many points in this report that could be talked about for a long time. I will refrain from that for time-winning, but I would like to start by stating that I think that all animals that are in human care should be well off. This applies to animals in our country, but also to animals in the European Union, of which we are part. That is why I think it is urgent for the present government to follow up the work begun by the previous alliance government to increase the level of animal welfare and animal welfare throughout the European Union. Having said that, I would very much like to agree with Åsa Coenraad's speech in this part and also with the support that she has for the reservation in this part. Raising the level in all parts of the EU is first and foremost important for the sake of animals, but it is also important from a competitive point of view. If the primary producers, the farmers, do not have a level playing field, the conditions for competition are different, and they should not be within a Union. Some people want to lower standards in our country. I don't think we should do that. I think that we should make sure that we help to ensure that animals are well off in all parts of the Union by setting a minimum standard for the Union, and I also think that we should be concerned about it and ensure that it is controlled. An example of this is the transport times. We are one of the more sparsely populated countries of the European Union and therefore have long journeys. Nevertheless, we have strict rules and controls on the transport of animals in our country. This is not the case with regard to the length of transport in other parts of the European Union. The time allowed is not as short as here, and the controls that are being carried out are not as rigorous as they are in our part of Europe. This, I think, is something that the government must constantly and constantly work to change. I move on to the next point that I think is urgent, and that is that we should take advantage of the good examples that exist. For many years Svensk Fågel has been doing a worthwhile job in an animal welfare program to get the standard for all the animals that that organization has in its world. I believe that many similar interest groups in an industry could benefit from working with animal welfare programmes. I think that this way we can go much further in terms of animal welfare than if we or any authority are going to put law or regulation on and around things, because then it takes time and it is difficult to write everything in legal text in a way that meets all the requirements that we want to be fulfilled. Animal welfare programmes I see as a good way to get further in the work that I hope and believe we are all keen to get further in. I would therefore like, Mr President, to endorse our Amendment No 6 in this regard. Finally, I would also like to mention a word about animal controls. Sometimes it is necessary to decide on a ban on animals for someone who holds animals. Unfortunately, that is a necessity. However, getting the ban itself tried in a court of law is difficult in our country. Getting the provision and the decision itself tested is an excellent thing in the administrative justice system, but it is not, of course, an examination of the appropriateness of imposing the ban on anyone. It is a very interventional decision whether it is about farm animals or about pets, and it is a very intervention for the individual. To have this tested by a court of law is on the verge of impossible in our country. For this reason, I would really like to express my support for the wording that we have in a reservation that means that the district court and the ordinary court system should be in charge of these things. I refrain from calling for the approval of this part for time-winning, but I would nevertheless like to draw the attention of the House to this particular issue.
i-162acf85688019d8-39	Mr President, I would like to Animals are living and sentient individuals. In doing so, animals should also have certain fundamental rights. Some of these rights can be found in our Animal Welfare Act, which states that animals should be treated well and given the opportunity for natural behaviour. Do we really give animals in the agricultural industry in Sweden the opportunity for natural behaviour? I am thinking of the nearly 3 million pigs that are reared and slaughtered every year in Sweden. They're standing on concrete floors in booths indoors. These pigs are never allowed to go outside and bend the ground. There are a few exceptions in alternative production, but the absolute mass of these nearly 3 million pigs is locked in stalls on concrete floors. We can also look at how the approximately 80 million chickens raised in Sweden to become chicken meat have it. They are bred under extremely intense conditions with thousands of birds in hangarlike buildings, where they are offered water and food almost 24 hours a day to eat and achieve carcass weight within just 37 days. These birds grow so fast that many of them have bone fractures and bone problems. They get so much weight on their bodies that the skeleton doesn't have time for it. We can take a look at the approximately 2 million cows and calves. How are they doing? Cows are constantly feeding new calves so that they are constantly producing new milk. The calf is removed from the cow almost immediately, even though we know that a cow and a calf want to be close to each other in the early days. We're used to seeing cows walking outside grazing. They do so in the summer for a few months; we have regulated that. But for the rest of the year they are trapped, and some of them are tied up all the time. In Sweden, 1 million minks are raised just to allow the mink industry to take their fur and sell it expensively at international auctions to make money. These 1 million minks are trapped in minimal net cages, whether it is extreme cold or extreme heat. In the open, the mink would probably have moved over several miles each day to seek food, retreat in the shade if it gets hot or swims in rivers and streams. None of this can be done in the Swedish fur industry. Virtually all the animals I have talked about here are transported, once they have reached a certain age or weight, to a slaughterhouse. Millions of animals are transported around Sweden. We're a big country. We have an eight-hour limit for animal transport, but transport is still very long. I myself have witnessed many of these transports, how to load the animals, transport them and finally unload them at the slaughterhouse. I can tell you it wasn't a nice experience. It was also not a pleasant experience to visit slaughterhouses and see these thousands of animals stabled up and have to wait many hours before they are to be slaughtered on assembly lines. I and we in the Left Party are wondering: can we do something about this? Yeah, we think so. We've raised a motion called Respect for the Animals. This exercise is in short that all animals reared in Sweden should have the possibility of natural behaviour, as the law prescribes. This means that some of the phenomena that I have now described must completely cease and be replaced by another form of rearing. They can also be replaced by another food, based on vegetable crops. Do we really have to consume as much meat as we do today in Sweden? The fur industry is a production of completely unnecessary products. Fur production, as it stands today, should certainly not be allowed in Sweden. I am very disappointed that the Socialist and environmental party government has not put forward proposals to phase out these activities. I am also disappointed with both the current government and the previous bourgeois government. It is a pity that former rural minister Eskil Erlandsson has now left the hall, because he was the minister responsible for the investigation into a new animal welfare law. He did nothing at all during his time. Now we have a new government, which has not done anything in its time either. Six and a half years have passed since we received the investigation into a new animal welfare law. We in the Left Party hoped that this investigation and a proposal for a new law on animal welfare would solve some of the problems I have just talked about. It is six and a half years of betrayal of the animals in Sweden. Responsibility rests heavily on the former bourgeois government and on the present Social Democratic and Environmental Party government. I would like to ask the social democrats and environmentalists who are here in the Chamber today: when will we see a new animal welfare law? Is it an animal welfare law that is just on the side of animals and is formulated in such a way that many of the problems I have raised will be resolved? Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say something about the approximately 990 000 animals used each year in animal experiments in Sweden. I'm talking about mice, guinea pigs, rats, monkeys, birds and so on. 990 000 animals each year mean about 2 700 new animals a day. I believe that we would have every opportunity in the world to reduce the number of animals used in animal testing to a minimum. In the future, we may not even have to do animal testing at all. There are already several modern, advanced, alternative methods. Some of them are said to be more effective and precise than the sometimes old-fashioned models of animal testing that exist today. It is therefore positive that we in the Left Party have got the government to set up something called a 3R centre to replace, refine and improve animal testing in Sweden. I hope that we will soon see this 3R centre not only as a formulation of money in the budget but also as an active working body in practice in terms of replacing animals in animal experiments and finding alternative methods. But much more must be done. One thing that we could quite quickly find a solution to is to ensure that everyone who studies in education and training that is involved in animal testing should also learn the basics of alternative methods, so that they see the multitude of alternative methods that exist. This is something that we mention in reservation 11 on animal experiments in medical research. I would now like to ask for the approval of reservation 11.
i-7dt9kZzhh8pqs8EBBQpMB7	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservations 2 and 7 I am proud and happy about all our Swedish farmers who are doing a fantastic job – our farmers who produce food for us consumers. To this we have animal husbandry that is characterised by high animal welfare ambitions. Good management and hygiene in animal husbandry provide not only better animal welfare but also a high quality of food. In an international comparison, Sweden has good animal welfare legislation. This is of course good but at the same time means that livestock farmers in Sweden have higher costs than their competitors in other countries. This allows farmers in some other countries, as a result of lower animal welfare requirements, to sell their products at a lower cost. In order for Swedish farmers not to be disadvantaged, it is important that animal welfare legislation is harmonised within the EU by strengthening EU requirements. The aim must be that Swedish animal welfare rules should serve as a guide for work within the EU. It is particularly important that existing rules are also complied with. As early as 2001, routine cutting of pigs' tails was banned within the EU. Despite this, the European Food Authority (Efsa) writes that the largest proportion of pigs in the EU still have their tails cut off. Sweden is the only country where pigs can still bump their tails. Since 2006, EU rules prohibit the use of antibiotics for growth-promoting purposes. This rule is not always complied with. In 2016, the European Parliament examined a Commission proposal for a regulation on medicated feed and a proposal for a regulation on veterinary medicinal products. It is important that both the Swedish Government and the European Parliament are on this issue. The view of the Christian Democrats is that any preventive group treatment with antibiotics should be prohibited. On the other hand, prevention can be done in individual animals, for example in the case of disease. In Sweden, there have long been industry regulations that have banned all preventive group treatment. The issue of how we use antibiotics is one of the most important issues we have for the future. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to review the grazing requirement for dairy cows in bulk. Today, Swedish dairy farmers are prevented from applying for grazing aid from the EU because of the national rules that dairy cows have to go out and graze during the summer. With a abolished national grazing requirement, Swedish dairy farmers can receive grazing support from the EU in the same way as European colleagues. It is important that the dairy cows are allowed to practice their natural grazing during the warm months of the year. The loose cows can move freely and practice their natural grazing all year round. They choose for themselves when to eat and rest, and in many cases also when to be milked. Cows that have good milks too. Therefore, all dairy farmers have an incentive to improve animal welfare. It is worth pointing out that there has been a great improvement in animal welfare for cows in loose operation indoors today compared to when the grazing requirement was introduced 30 years ago. Mr President, I would like to The development of alternative animal testing is progressing. Data simulation programs and cell cultures can fully or partially replace animal experiments in many situations. In higher education in Sweden there are still animal experiments according to routine or because the teacher responsible for the course does not have sufficient knowledge of the alternatives to animal experiments. For users of experimental animals there are animal science programmes, where the researcher gets an insight into important questions about animal use. Students also get an introduction about alternatives, but this information is far from sufficient for the student to find opportunities to use alternatives in their research, now and in the future. All students on the courses where animal testing is traditionally carried out should receive basic training on alternative methods.
i-162acf85688019d8-62	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, approximately 1 million minks are raised in minimal cages every year – under pretty terrible circumstances, I would say. These minks are then bred and slaughtered to take their skins, sell them at auctions and earn a lot of money from it. The Swedish fur industry is really making a lot of money today with the high fur prices we have. Those who pay the price for this are, of course, minks, who cannot move freely, cannot retreat in the shade, cannot seek food freely and cannot swim in water at will. We in the Left Party want to stop this business. We wonder what the Christian Democrats want. Then I have another question, Mr President. I listened carefully to Magnus Oscarsson's speech. Magnus Oscarsson said that it is important to harmonise animal welfare laws in the EU, if I understood it correctly. But if you harmonise, you do it so that it will be the same throughout the EU. Then I wonder: Is it not a great risk that we will be forced to lower our levels? I think the Christian Democrats would like the rest of Europe to rise to our level, but what is it that says that it is not the big fish that eats the little one? I think you understand the parable. Therefore, I would like to know: do the Christian Democrats really want us to lie down at exactly the same level in animal welfare legislation in Europe?
i-162acf85688019d8-65	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Holm for the question. The question of minks was very good, I think. There has been a debate on this in this House. Above all, Mr Holm has pushed this issue. Actually, I've gone to someone who's got minks. I thought I'd have to look into this. If you don't have contacts, you have to get them. I went to a mink producer. The story I got from him – and her; it's a family that runs this – was pretty nasty in a way. They told me about how hunted they are in different ways. They almost get to seek shelter because they are so hated from some places – not by neighbors, because they think it's good to run the farm, but by some who go around hunting them. They have different means of protecting themselves. It was pretty nasty to hear that there are people who want to get to these people because they are doing this activity. They are entrepreneurs like all other entrepreneurs. They behave perfectly and follow all the rules that exist. But they feel they don't have enough protection. Jens Holm asks how the minks are. I was walking around there in the minks. Jens Holm said they don't get protection and stuff. But they have protection. I noticed they have free access to food. They also have access to shade if they need it. There is also a rule that says it has to be two floors, so that they can go up and down. They certainly can't be out, but we should be happy that not all minks are out, because then there wouldn't be many birds' eggs left. That's often what happens when you let the minks out.
i-162acf85688019d8-68	Mr President, I would like to It is unacceptable if someone is exposed to threats or similar. But what was in focus in my question was minks in the fur industry. I hear from the Christian Democrats' reply that they think this is a perfectly good activity from an animal welfare perspective. I think it's very strange. It is very strange to say that these animals can behave naturally when the surface is about the size of an open evening newspaper and there should be three minks that penetrate that surface. In the open, they move a mile or two in a day to feed and discover new areas. They swim a lot in water, they basically have swimming skin between their toes and so on. Can they retreat in the shadow? There's not much they can pull away from. Sometimes it is also very hot even in the shade of Sweden, and then there is nothing they can do. They also have very thick furs. But the Christian Democrats put the profits of the fur industry before the welfare of animals. That's a conclusion I'm drawing from this. My second question was whether we should really harmonise animal welfare legislation at European level. Is there not a risk that it will be we who will be forced to lower our levels? Is it really realistic to believe that Europe will raise its levels to ours?
i-162acf85688019d8-70	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I didn't have time to answer the whole thing. We only have two minutes each time. Now I'll try to answer your question. First, I'd like to answer this question with the minks again. We have animal welfare laws. Those who have minks are led by them. In view of the requirements on cages and the improvements that have been made, I think that this is done in full compliance with all the rules. I think it works well. The second question, and that is a great one, was how we can push forward in Europe. The previous government did a lot of things. The present government is also doing much to try to push and show how important our animal laws are. I am thinking, for example, of the pigs, which Jens Holm also mentioned. As far as antibiotics are concerned, we in Sweden have shown that we can actually make a difference. Now it is not that we politicians have made any difference in that way. In fact, it is our farmers who have done an amazing job. When you visit pig producers and you're out holding their pigs, it's clear it's something huge. Then you understand what it means with bigger boxes and with more straw in the box that means that they don't have to get this kind of disease. I think it is fantastic that we have such production in our country. Our Swedish farmers really show that there can be a huge change if you have regulations and push for it. Our respective parties must work to push forward in the EU so that the whole of Europe gets such laws.
i-162acf85688019d8-75	Mr President, I would like to Like Åsa Coenraads and others, we are debating MJU12, pending the government's animal welfare bill. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject any such motion. The bonuses are rejected mainly on the grounds that work is under way in the Government Office. Many motion proposals address the same or essentially the same issues that Parliament has dealt with earlier during the parliamentary term. They are therefore dealt with in a simplified way. There are also eleven reservations, from M, SD, C, V and KD. I lift my hat for the Liberals because they are able to stand on their own feet and do not stand behind ridiculous reservations on issues that are already resolved or about to be resolved.
i-162acf85688019d8-82	If we start at that end, some of us have been contacted by physiotherapists in animal health. They are not entirely satisfied with our response to the motion in the report. That is why I have checked with the Ministry and the Board of Agriculture where the responsibility for this issue lies. The issue of professional titles is regulated by an EU regulation and the question of the professional title of physiotherapists will not, according to the Ministry, be dealt with in the animal welfare bill. It will be handled by the Swedish Board of Agriculture or in connection with the review of the Act on Animal Health Activities. Many of the requests for exercise raised are affected by the proposals of the animal welfare inquiry. The government has since then been able to conclude that the investigation, just as we have been dealing with, is becoming quite old. Some of the issues have already been resolved through regulations. Other issues have been pursued in other ways. Therefore, work on the bill has been delayed. The ambition is that it should be left in 2017. The government has a very high ambition compared to the previous alliance government. The proposal for a food strategy that has been submitted to Parliament consists of a proposal and an action plan. The Action Plan sets out concrete measures to achieve the objectives, including advice model in livestock production, increased knowledge transfer and improved interaction between authorities, interest groups and the industry. The aim is to make it easy and profitable to do the right thing. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has for several years been tasked with working with the regulations in the field of animal welfare. The Government has also announced that the Swedish Board of Agriculture will receive new assignments to simplify the rules and to increase flexibility in animal husbandry where possible. It has also been announced that a Scientific Council will be set up to assist authorities in regulatory work. In the budget last autumn it was announced that the Swedish Board of Agriculture will finally get money for the 3R centre. It will also be increased by 15 million annually over the period 2017-2020. The purpose of the 3R centre is to promote and coordinate work on alternative methods for animal testing together with animal welfare bodies, animal testing ethics committees, authorities, researchers and animal welfare organisations. In this connection, it is important to mention the Government's innovation initiative in life science. The Government proposes in the Research Policy Bill that the Swedish Research Council's research funding for medical research should increase gradually until 2020 and be added SEK 115 million. For these funds, the Swedish Research Council will carry out three research initiatives to meet the health challenge, including through biobanks, a new investment in cross-sectoral register-based research, a strengthening of clinical therapy research, support to stimulate thematic research and innovation collaborations and research to meet the growing problem of antibiotic resistance. The government has invested 12 1⁄2 million to reduce the cost of meat control at smaller slaughterhouses and game handling facilities. It has also been important for the government to speed up the approval testing of smaller slaughterhouses and game handling facilities – in the sense of shortening the transport, so that we avoid unnecessarily long animal transport. The government has also previously contributed 30 million to animal welfare controls. Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has recently announced severe penalties against the meat fraud that often appears, from fines to prison for up to two years. Mr President, I would like to However, there is no reason to sit back. We must continue to work at least as hard as before for higher animal protection, not least in order for work within the Union to proceed with the same intensity as in the past. Too many problems remain for Sweden to lower its level of ambition. If we do not push, there is a risk that little will be done. This applies not least to inadequate compliance with our common EU commitments and the animal welfare rules that exist. It is of great importance that Sweden continues to act as a driving force in the EU to raise the level of animal welfare, not least in order to overcome the horrors of the transport of live animals. It is very important that the government continues to prioritise it. It is also important for the government to feel that it has the support of the whole House in this work. It is important that we continue to push forward together in EU negotiations for additional rules and so that we can increase the restrictiveness of the use of antibiotics. The government is also pushing the issue of a ban on the sale of antibiotics for profit by veterinarians. We hope that it can reduce the use of antibiotics throughout the EU. Sweden has a long and broad experience in counteracting antibiotic resistance, and Sweden is seen as a role model in this area. It is gratifying that there is an international interest in the Swedish model. It is increasingly requested by both the European Commission and other Member States. Good animal welfare is therefore an important part of the Swedish model. Control systems are important. We don't want mold to grow in the stian. We are all – both animals and people, as consumers and producers – the valet of good animal welfare, order and an enlightened population. It gives us healthier animals, better production and good conscience.
i-162acf85688019d8-99	Mr President, I would like to I had to ask for a reply at the beginning of Isak From's speech, when he said that the opposition's reservations were ridiculous. Then I must ask the representative of the Social Democrats two questions. I'll admit my first question is a little rhetorical. When is the animal welfare bill coming? Unfortunately, I do not think that Isak From will be able to answer that question because we have waited and waited. And now we wait a little longer. Then I come to my second question to Isak From from the Social Democrats. I wonder if he thinks that the current regulatory framework is perfect as it is and that nothing needs to be changed at the legislative level. If today's regulations are perfect, we may not need to have a new animal welfare bill either, that goes without saying. But at least I would like to send that question to Isak From.
i-o9QB8dtusWpyBeN9dEc1z	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for the questions! Of course you'll get the answer to the question when there's a bill. It comes when it's good enough and well balanced.
i-162acf85688019d8-103	Mr President, I would like to Isak From said in his speech that you can never sit back and that the government is working at least as hard now as before. It frightens me a little, given that there is actually nothing coming from the government on this issue. This debate is getting a little spongy because of this. I am afraid that we will be standing here again next year, and neither will there be an animal welfare bill on the table. This indicates the need for a new government, and it needs parties and politicians in that government who dare to take hold of issues, dare to make uncomfortable decisions and dare to put a good regulatory framework in place. My question to Isak From remains: Is today's regulatory framework perfect as it is right now?
i-162acf85688019d8-106	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Coenraads asked: Is today's regulations perfect? We live in a time when things happen. A number of years have passed since the bourgeois government set up the animal welfare inquiry which made its proposals. Now Eskil Erlandsson has left the Chamber, so he cannot answer the question as to why the vast majority of all parts of that investigation were left behind. We are now trying to collect everything. If we are to submit a proposal to the Swedish Parliament, it should be well balanced. It shall be relevant and shall bring improvements. That's why we're looking at which parts of the investigation we can use. What elements do we need to proceed with and probably investigate further? Because when we come to this House, Members like Åsa Coenraads will say: This and this is not clear, we cannot do that. That's not how we deal with questions. We do it properly, and we intend to come back to the Swedish Parliament when it is all done and well balanced. Depending on the issues raised, the reality and the regulatory framework do not always match. But we have the order that there are responsible authorities, such as the Swedish Board of Agriculture that handle much of the daily routine, and the county boards that handle much of the controls.
i-162acf85688019d8-111	Mr President, I would like to What we just heard was a defense speech for the prolonged betrayal of animals. It seems that this current government thinks five and a half years of preparation is not enough. One must continue to investigate a little more. This government is breaking record in the number of investigations and long internal preparations at the Government Office. Those who suffer are all Sweden's animals who need a new animal welfare law and all committed citizens who are on their side and who want a new animal welfare law. We have already received the answer that the government and its support parties do not seem to know when this important law will be presented. I would like to ask Isak From what the Social Democrats think about the fur industry. I have already described how 1 million minks living and slaughtered in the Swedish fur industry have it. Do the Social Democrats believe that minks in the Swedish fur industry have the right to and opportunity for natural behaviour? I would also like to know whether this government will propose some new rules for fur farming. I note that in the run-up to the 2014 election movement, the Social Democrats responded to a survey from the Animal Rights Alliance. You replied: after the elections, if we win, we will develop new rules for the mink industry. Now you've won the election, you're in the government, where are the new rules?
i-162acf85688019d8-116	Mr President, I would like to As is well known to many, we have debated these issues in the past. It can be said that five and a half years is a long time. But five and a half years of preparation don't add up. As far as I know, this government took office after the 2014 elections. We may have to count from that time. According to the Social Democratic model, all animals, and of course fur animals, which are managed by humans, must have good conditions. We do not break out parts and say that it should not be allowed to raise a certain kind of animal. We don't put pigs against sheep, or minks against goats. The goats, of course, have an equal need for good animal welfare. The mink industry is mainly regulated by regulations. Such work is now being prepared within the Government Office. If Jens Holm wants further clarification, he may well use one of Parliament's instruments, i.e. a question or an interpellation to the responsible minister.
i-162acf85688019d8-119	Mr President, I would like to I know exactly how I can exercise my scrutiny of this government and its ministers. But now we have a debate here between the parliamentary parties. One of these parties responded to the election movement: we will develop new rules for the mink industry. When you have the responsible representative of that party here, it may be appropriate for him to tell you when the new rules come. But even that seems to be written in the stars. I hope that there will be new tough demands on the mink industry that are in line with the right to natural behaviour so that we can put an end to this form of animal rearing and slaughter. Until the new Animal Welfare Act is in place, we must wait. But I really hope you're working on it as soon as possible. There are a lot of people who want a new modern animal welfare law that is on the side of the animals.
i-162acf85688019d8-122	Mr President, I would like to We can nevertheless see that minks are being bred. If we were not to raise minks in Sweden, they would be raised elsewhere. Jens Holm mentioned in his speech that the industry is doing very well, and it is doing so because it has high quality and healthy animals. The animals have nice skins. Then, as a hunter, I feel that minks should live in the open, and then it is the hunters who, on old trapperwise, shoot the fur animals. But now it's not like that. We have a trading system. It's a fur trade. Fur animals are raised around the world, and we have to relate to that. Of course, all animals should have good conditions according to their needs when they are handled by humans. We intend to ensure that we continue to do so, including in the minks' field.
i-162acf85688019d8-125	Mr President, I would like to We are here in this House today to debate the report on animal welfare. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. This is a very important report for us environmentalists. Good animal welfare and a high level of animal welfare where animals are well and have an outlet for their natural behaviour is a very important issue for us. Our policy is based on the three solidaritys: solidarity with future generations, solidarity with all the peoples of the world and solidarity with animals, nature and the ecological system. Good animal welfare is then a matter of course. In Sweden we have good animal welfare, although we would like to increase it further in many areas. The strong protection of animals has served us well. Thanks to this, we have low antibiotic use in our animal stalls. We have healthy animals, and they feel relatively well compared to what it is like in many other places. I would like to continue my speech by saying something that Minister Bucht has said: Sweden is a pioneer country in terms of animal welfare, but it is always possible to improve. Unfortunately, the fact that we are a pioneer country means that it does not look the same in other countries. In the pursuit of cheap food, the welfare of animals often stands back. Too many times we have seen shaking images of deeply unethical animal rearing and terrible transport. There are meat factories out there that keep the animals tight. It provides diseases, increased drug use and ill-health in animals. Instead of working with animals and their natural behaviours, you try to squeeze them into production units and see them as any commodity. This is unworthy. Last autumn, for example, attention was paid to major irregularities in the transport of animals between the EU and Turkey. This was a reminder of the suffering that the long - distance transports often bring to animals. It is not ethically justifiable, but it is also a violation of the law that unfortunately often falls away. Very few are prosecuted and prosecuted for this. Many consumers have chosen to reduce meat consumption. We are making increasingly tough demands on animals to have a decent life. We have public procurement where such requirements can be made. People are aware. Despite this, most of the rules on transport times in the EU have remained unchanged since 1991. However, some regulation was made in 2005. Within the EU, 24 hours of maximum transport time is allowed for horses and pigs. For other species, transport is 14 hours. Then follow an hour of rest and then another 14 hours of transport. In addition, this can be extended by two hours if you are close to your target, so that you do not have to stay. In total, there will be 16 hours in one sweep. This isn't right. It is therefore gratifying that we in the government are continuing the good work that the previous government actually did in the EU as well. Together with countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark, we have started a great deal of work within the EU to bring about an EU-wide platform on animal welfare issues. This was adopted in January, and it will look at the issue of the mutilation of animals, such as the hive of pigtails and beak trimming in poultry, and the transport of animals. I find this incredibly gratifying, and we should be proud that Sweden has initiated such a work. We in the Green Party really want to address the problem of European legislation. We propose a maximum limit of eight hours for the whole of the EU for the transport of live animals. We must also ensure that compliance is monitored in all Member States, not only where Member States think this is important. This is supposed to be something that needs to be done. We also think that the journey time should be adjusted according to species. For example, the EU's own expert authority has seen that the mortality rate in transport differs. Poultry, birds, are some who take a lot of pain in these transports. That is why we want to see shorter transport times for sensitive species, such as poultry. We must ensure that controls are increased. If you have control, you must also ensure that there are sanctions against those Member States that break the rules. One of the reasons why it looks like it does with transport is that there is a shortage of slaughterhouses. Price-pressed transport means that long-distance animal transport is cheaper for slaughter than slaughtering in the immediate area. We would like to see more local and mobile slaughterhouses available. It must also be more profitable to go to what is closest. The environmental party already initiated changes in 2003 to make it easier for smaller slaughterhouses in Sweden. This has improved the situation, especially for cattle and sheep. We can also improve animal welfare by increasing supervision and ensuring that offences are prosecuted. There are also modern things like having a computer-controlled route that shows the shortest route when you transport. All of this has produced results. Fortunately, there are mobile slaughterhouses today, which allow slaughter at home on the farm. The government already added money last year to more wildlife facilities and smaller slaughterhouses. I hope we can see more of that in the future. If we are now to have meat production, it is as far as possible meat that is to be transported and not live animals. Another important thing that I am pleased that the government has taken action to reduce animal testing, the number of animals and suffering is the work of 3R ‐ centres. For those of us in the Green Party who have been running this for a long time, it is gratifying that 15 million are being invested here. The term 3R comes from the English replace, reduce and refine. This means replacing animal testing with non-animal methods to the extent possible. We must limit the number of animals that must be used after all, and we must refine the methods so that suffering is reduced. These 3R centres should be involved in the coordination and also have a competence development function in the Swedish animal testing field. I think it will be very important that we in Sweden can take lead here too. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight one of the initiatives in the food strategy. We have set up a Scientific Council on animal welfare issues. SLU has received this assignment. The Council will ensure that the animal welfare rules that Sweden has are based on scientific facts and that we get good animal welfare. The Council shall assess risks and evaluate scientific research on, in particular, animal welfare. This is encouraging news, and it means that even more animals will have an outlet for their natural behaviour, which is something that we in the Green Party very much defend. This is part of everything that's going on. I hope that we will tighten and improve animal welfare even more. Sweden should be a pioneer country. When other countries come after us, we will make sure that we are still at the front.
i-162acf85688019d8-145	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for Emma Nohrén. I think it was good that she lifted up animal transport within the EU. It is terrible that animals can be transported over such long distances, for such a long time and under such terrible conditions. But even here in Sweden there is animal transport, and we actually have animal transport that lasts more than eight hours, which is our limit. This applies, for example, to all the times when animals are exported to other countries for both slaughter and intensive rearing. The most current is about several thousand pigs being transported to Germany and Poland. We in the Left Party want there to be an animal welfare guarantee. Sweden should be able to refer to the welfare of animals and say: No animal should be transported for such a long time, and since we have an eight-hour limit it should apply. The EU then says that we must not do that, because there is an internal market. Once someone has crossed Sweden's borders, other rules apply.
i-162acf85688019d8-148	I have one more question. I very much like the idea of the three solidaritys, and in particular the third solidarity, which concerns animals and nature. But how solidarity do we have when 1 million minks are raised in the fur industry? In the run-up to the elections, the Environmental Party responded to a survey from the Animal Rights Alliance in the following way: After the elections, we hope to sit in a government and then be able to push through the closure of the mink farms as soon as possible. Emma Nohrén! When will you push through the closure of the mink farms in Sweden?
i-162acf85688019d8-150	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Holm, for the questions. An animal welfare guarantee sounds like an excellent idea. We want an eight-hour limit for transport throughout the EU, so this is well in line with how we see it all. It is crazy when animals that are raised with Swedish welfare are suddenly transported across a border and end up in another system, where it is worse. I hope we can work this out. Perhaps this is also something that we can pursue within the animal welfare platform. Member Jens Holm brings up minks, and just as he says, both our parties want to see a closure of mink farms or that both they and the fur industry are removed. Unfortunately, neither you nor we are in the majority in Parliament. We are also in a minority government. However, having an animal species that has as little space as we are talking about here and that does not have access to swimming opportunities is difficult. I can't see they're venting their natural behavior. I hope that in the announced animal welfare bill there will be greater pressure for animals to have their natural behaviour. However, I believe that both your entry and my entry into this is unfortunately in the minority in this House.
i-162acf85688019d8-153	Mr President, I would like to Let us sincerely hope that the Animal Welfare Act will now come. We've been waiting for it for a very long time. The fur industry appears to be increasingly out-of-date and out-of-date. Country after country bans fur farming throughout Europe. This applies to Holland and Croatia, and I saw that the German Parliament had voted against fur farming. There are different ways to go. I think the best thing is to regulate it so that it becomes an activity that cannot continue. New regulations can also be envisaged. That was something that the Social Democrats promised against the furry industry in the run-up to the elections. For example, it can be a requirement for swimming water and for animals to be able to swim. The regulations we have today for the fur industry were developed under the bourgeois government. Couldn't that be something the Green Party can push for? Now you have been in government for more than two years, and nothing has happened on this front. There are quite a few of us who are getting quite impatient.
i-162acf85688019d8-156	Mr President, I would like to I believe that all animals should be able to exercise their natural behaviour. For minks, it means that they should be able to swim. I hope that the animal welfare bill that will contain elements that will allow the animals kept to have the opportunity for their natural behaviour.
i-162acf85688019d8-157	Mr President, I would like to As Isak From said, this is a debate pending a bill on the Animal Welfare Act. Maybe we can have that as a theme. When we debated last April, at least the ambition was that it was autumn 2016 that applied, and now it is autumn 2017. Autumn as autumn, but it feels a little weird. From the Liberals we have no reservations in the report that is being discussed today. But that does not mean that we do not have a very clear line on animal welfare. It is more proof that there is, after all, a very broad consensus on this issue. Liberally speaking, one of the clearest evidences of our commitment is our former MEP, Marit Paulsen's efforts in the European Parliament. We have talked about different governments and how they have worked with the European Union. But I would say that, as an individual, she has meant a great deal as an MEP on these issues. It has applied to the European Animal Health Act that has been adopted. Even when we are now discussing veterinary medicine and the preventive treatment with antibiotics, Marit Paulsen played a major role in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development when that work was started. It is now included in the proposal for a regulation. Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that the Liberals are safe on their own. I can also note that the two joint declarations made by the committee during its term of office are still fully up to date. It is about improving animal welfare in the EU and reducing antibiotic treatment. We have been used to Sweden speaking with one voice on this issue in the European context. That unity is apparently still there. We're on a very stable base. Of course, we should be proud of this from the Swedish side. We have a great deal of credibility when we run the issues within the European Union. Mr President, I would like to We are talking about good animal welfare and good animal health. They are also strongly associated with good public health. Our Swedish animal welfare and the low antibiotic use with healthier animals in Sweden are very good. Even from an international perspective, it is a rather remarkably low use. The interdependence between animals and humans also means that we must work in both human and veterinary medicine to tackle the problem of antibiotic resistance. According to the WHO, antibiotic resistance is one of the main threats to public health. I believe that there is now a figure that around 25 000 people die a year in Europe precisely because of antibiotic resistance. It is a figure that will be able to increase avalanche if we do not overcome this. It is primarily a question of animal welfare both in Sweden and in other countries, and not least in the EU. But it is also about the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture based on the regulations we have in Sweden. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate that Swedish agricultural products have many added value. This often means higher costs. Unfortunately, this has not always been translated into the fact that it has been possible to charge the price needed to maintain a good profitability. The solution is not to compromise the strong animal protection in Sweden. I believe that we fully agree that it is a matter of stepping up work within the European Union for the strengthening of animal welfare. It is very much a question of applying the regulatory framework that already exists. It will not help if we tighten up legislation if there are major shortcomings in complying with existing rules. There's a lot of work to do there. The study that I believe came at the end of 2011 highlights that it could make the rules more targeted and as flexible as possible without undermining animal welfare. The rules on grazing are one step in that direction. Without actually compromising animal welfare, greater flexibility is given and simplification is made for the entrepreneur. From a liberal point of view, we welcome this type of development. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned compliance with EU common rules already agreed. It is essential that we overcome it so that we comply with the rules that exist. Otherwise, full respect for the rules will be lost. In addition, we are faced with a situation in which it is only financially negative for those who comply with the rules. It is the opposite of the conditions that we want. It is also important to continue working with the consumer perspective and the market. It is a question of highlighting the Swedish added value and the quality of food precisely because we have a high level of animal welfare and a low level of antibiotic use. We thus get a high quality of our food production. We are talking here about mobile slaughterhouses. We can also note that in Sweden very many small local slaughterhouses are growing up. This is something that minimises the transport of animals. What is interesting is to see that there is more and more willingness to pay for it at the consumer level. People know that the animals have been doing well. That way we can get the added value that is created by being able to emphasise this, and the consumer is prepared to pay. The bottom line is that there are clear regulations and a strong level of animal protection. But you should also be clear, work with consumers and clearly emphasise that those animals that are well off should be able to use as food in a different way so that consumers are prepared to pay more.
i-162acf85688019d8-175	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about the conditions for jobs, entrepreneurship and growth throughout the country – this is linked to the movements that arose during the general exercise in autumn 2016. The Swedish economy depends on companies – both companies in traditional industries and innovative growth companies. Our entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs have lifted Sweden even at a time when other countries are in crisis. The globalised world with increasing competitive pressure and the need for more and growing companies are three reasons that motivate Sweden to need a favourable business environment that encourages entrepreneurship and innovation. It is vital that rules are kept under constant review and improved. Mr President, I would like to A large part of our smaller companies are family businesses. Many of them are run by people over the age of 55. We are thus facing a major generational shift in Swedish companies. The fact that these companies can continue to operate is of the utmost importance. They create a sense of security and long-termness in the Swedish business community. In the spring of 2014, the Alliance government appointed a special investigator to review the rules on taxation in the event of a change of ownership of small-time companies in order to make them more effective. Unfortunately, the current government amended the investigation's directive, and we are now seeing the result of this. With regard to the new approach, it is important that the government now makes proposals for a simplified generational shift. Other proposals for changes to the so-called 3:12 rules leave much to be desired. It is clear that the simplifications that the investigation originally aimed at creating now run the risk of leading to a number of tax increases. Instead of developing existing regulations to promote jobs and growth, the government proposes tax increases of several billion for Swedish small businesses. There are strong reasons to change the few-man company rules. In the long term, it is desirable that the gap between taxes on capital and taxes on labour should be narrowed. But before that happens, we will have to live with the so-called 3:12 rules. Then it is important that they aim to make it easier for smaller companies. It must be easy to start and run your own business, and the tax system must reward personal, direct and working ownership, which has a strong positive impact on society. Mr President, I would like to We need more jobs in rural areas and sustainable development throughout the country. Forests and jobs in the forest play a crucial role here. A major advantage of Swedish forestry policy is that it has been of a more comprehensive and principled nature, and the regulations have been based on these principles. These regulations have been stable and long-term in many respects. The forest is the most important natural resource we have in Sweden. Forests account for about 120 billion in export value, and the sub-contracted forest industry employs around 175 000 people. It is therefore self-evident that the forestry industry, like the rest of industry, needs long-term rules of play. Forests are not only important for the Swedish economy; forest as a renewable resource is important for tackling the climate problem and for achieving long-term sustainable development of society. Forests, like other green industries, play a crucial role in the green transition and in local, national and global growth. Mr President, I would like to The state inquiry into simplified tax rules SOU 2014:68 proposed to, among other things, phase out forest accounts and forest damage accounts. However, it is still of great importance for the individual forest owner to be able to use their forests in a reasonable manner and thus take advantage of the financial dividend they have been involved in building up for both generations and decades. Deteriorating the possibility of economic balance between the years would be devastating for forest owners' commitment and the conservation work they are doing. The said study also proposes the introduction of an environmentally-friendly forestry deduction. Today's forestry deduction rules for rationalisation acquisitions are proposed to be general. That's good. This is expected to lead to higher forest growth as fellings can take place in a more forest-economic way, as the younger part of the harvested mature forest can normally be expected to remain in the most intensive period of growth rather than being harvested for tax purposes. In addition to simplification, the proposal also has a positive impact on the environmental and production objectives of forestry policy. The rapid implementation of this proposal would be beneficial for both environmental protection and forestry and the export-intensive forest industry. The Center Party believes that the proposal can be decoupled from the Government's proposal in general. It could therefore be treated with priority. Here the government needs to announce what it really wants to do with the tax rules relating to forest accounts. Mr President, I would like to Finally, let me just comment on the issue of housing. We need more housing in Sweden. This requires more flexible rules, changes in taxes that reduce lock-in effects and more market-friendly rentals. The European Commission, the IMF and the OECD are flagged that Sweden is at risk of getting a housing bubble. A more adapted regulatory framework is needed to stimulate a healthy amortisation culture. The Center Party wants to see a review of taxation to buy, own and sell housing. I call for alliance motion 7 to be approved. I agree with all the center reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to No. 6.
i-162acf85688019d8-189	Mr President, I would like to For me, every single entrepreneur is a hero. It is someone who believes in an idea and develops it and who, through their strength and commitment, contributes to Sweden's development and to their own and others' livelihoods. The work line begins in companies. It is through entrepreneurship and through new and growing companies that more people get employment, more people get employment and more people can feel real security. More jobs in growing companies also mean tax revenue, which in turn finances our common welfare. It is becoming increasingly clear that this is where the dividing line goes in Parliament. Either it wants to facilitate entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and makes proposals on how to simplify rules and tax can be adjusted so that more people want and dare to take the step into entrepreneurship and so that more businesses can grow, or it makes proposals that restrict and hamper entrepreneurship. Either one chooses to look at entrepreneurship as a prerequisite for growth, jobs and good welfare, or one sees entrepreneurship as something necessary evil – something that most distorts and distorts, and which at best can constitute a never-ending source of revenue for the state and which can be constantly subject to new taxation. With the government's new proposal for 3:12 taxation, the tax will increase for all entrepreneurs concerned who charge dividends. Every few-man company is affected by the tax increase. It will therefore be less profitable to take the risk of setting up and running businesses with government policy. It simply becomes less profitable to run a business. This is quite the wrong way to go in a situation when we know that four out of five jobs are being created today in smaller companies. There is a need for a better business environment, that is, more companies that can and want to employ. Entrepreneurs should be estimated, not taxed. That is why I believe that the alliance government's original directive on 3:12 ‐ the investigation aimed at simplifying and improving the generational shift for small-scale companies is a good one. Per Åsling has very well explained this. I support that part of the 3:12 proposal, but the government's proposal to raise taxes is anti-business and should not be implemented. Mr President, I would like to Taxes play an important role when companies decide where to put their production and investments. Trying to keep and attract businesses is something that many countries are striving for, but that does not seem to be the line of the current government. The competitiveness study has examined and compared the competitiveness of the agricultural industry with other countries. It is an important part of the work to strengthen the agricultural industry in Sweden. The investigation directives state that the tax area is outside the responsibility of the investigation. At the same time, the investigation notes that taxation is a factor which has a significant impact on the competitive situation. Therefore, unlike the government, we Moderates believe that the Competitiveness Investigation needs to be supplemented so that we can compare the tax burden on Swedish farmers with farmers in other countries. It is not only in the case of farmers that the government chooses to ignore the impact of the tax on the competitiveness of companies. After the government has failed to put forward a proposal for a bank tax – it is good that it has failed to do so – instead, the idea of a resolution fee is being put forward. Nordea has said that if this fee becomes a reality, you may leave Sweden and move your head office elsewhere. It is perhaps not surprising if we know that taxes affect the establishment of businesses. What is more surprising is that the Minister of Finance has welcomed the announcement. The partly state-owned company SAS has decided to establish itself in other countries with the declared aim of increasing its competitiveness through reduced taxes and social security contributions. Skype also recently announced that it should close its office in Sweden and establish itself elsewhere. Whether it is a traditional big bank, part of a state-owned airline or an IT service company, they are fleeing the country and government policy. The government believes that an active economic policy is being pursued. Unfortunately, it seems to mean actively running businesses out of the country. My message and that of the Moderates is that companies will move to Sweden, not from Sweden. This requires an attractive business environment. Sweden has been doing well in the World Economic Forum's competitiveness index in recent years. Unfortunately, however, in some areas we have fallen behind. In the last ranking, we lost 26 seats in the tax area. We are now in place 120 out of 138 countries. You might think that a ranking plays a smaller role, but it plays a role for companies and for those who work. It's turned into cash. The government has increased the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship by 40 billion and has announced an additional 20. This, of course, becomes particularly problematic for the people who live in exclusion. According to the government's own estimates, there will be approximately 980 000 people in exclusion by 2020. To reverse this unfortunate trend, we simply need to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. The World Economic Forum has the recipe for this. They believe that the most important area to strengthen Swedish competitiveness is to change taxes in order to increase the drive to work. If we do so in a sensible way, more companies will grow and more people will be able to move from grants to work. In this way, we will have even more resources for welfare. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the Moderates' reservation 1 and the Alliance's reservation 7.
i-162acf85688019d8-203	Mr President, I would like to The report states that the taxes are to be levied in a manner consistent with the overall objectives of the government's economic policy. ..................................................... The budget proposal for the state budget for 2017 contains the following guiding principles: A legitimate and fair tax system. 中 General and clear rules.
i-162acf85688019d8-205	These principles are important cornerstones which, I believe, the vast majority can support. It is also a necessity for us to be able to maintain a relatively high level of taxation and thus to finance our welfare society. On the other hand, we see major shortcomings in how these objectives are dealt with by the government when it comes to the enforcement of the decisions that need to be taken. The report deals with the taxation of companies, capital and real estate. Companies form the backbone of the tax base, i.e. companies' activities are what underpins the entire tax system. When the situation of companies means that they move abroad in order to compete, we lose tax power. We must therefore build a tax system that makes it attractive for entrepreneurs to locate and develop their business in Sweden. In total, the report deals with 57 motions, of which 13 have been submitted by the members of the Swedish Democrats. I will devote my speech to presenting some of these motions, all of which aim to increase the chances of achieving the stated objectives. Mr President, I would like to Companies' ability to grow is based on entrepreneurs being able to make money from their operations. There must also be good access to venture capital for investments. With various measures, we want to improve the opportunities for many to invest in Swedish companies, not least in small and growing companies where we know that there is great job growth. The revision of the 3:12 rules must be carried out in such a way as not to impair the position of entrepreneurs in small and growing companies in relation to the ownership of larger companies – in the way that the government's direction leads to. The Swedish Democrats want to build a special investment fund whose task should be to make it easier for entrepreneurs in rural areas to invest and grow. This is an important issue for us to be able to develop rural areas and combat urbanisation. We want to improve the opportunities for smaller companies to use employee options to attract and retain key employees. The Swedish Democrats want to introduce a system of so-called innovation boxes. In practice, this means financial relief for innovative companies whose turnover is based on new technical products or services. Similar systems exist in several EU countries, whose conditions are similar to those of Sweden, for example Holland and Belgium. The Swedish Democrats' vision is that this support should be specifically targeted at small Swedish companies and generate an incentive to develop innovative processes and products. For the important forest companies, we want the forest accounts to continue to contribute to sustainable forestry. We also want to increase domestic ownership of shares in general because we believe that it is good for Sweden if many people are engaged in ownership and operation of companies in different ways. Mr President, I would like to Taxing the holding of a capital means that the State confiscates part of the capital. That's a bad way to bring tax money in. On the other hand, income from capital should be taxed. I will touch on this a little more later in the speech when I raise taxes on real estate. The taxation of capital gains in the sale of small house properties, owner-occupied apartments and tenant-owners is based on a calculation model that disadvantages long-term home owners. In practice, because you have owned your dwelling, you have to pay a penalty tax on your capital which increases the longer the period you have owned the dwelling. In everyday terms, it is called the moving tax. This injustice is contrary to the principle of a legitimate and fair tax system, which the government has endorsed. Injustice is created by the fact that the costs of buying one's home and the costs of improvement and conversion are gradually eroded by inflation. For example, if one bought a house in 1980 for 450 000, rebuilt it in 2000 for 75 000 and then sold it in 2016 for maybe 2.3 million, then the tax on the capital gain will be about 390 000 SEK. We believe that the principle should be that purchase and repair costs are inflationaryally protected against the time of sale so that the monetary value of the sales sum and the purchase sum is comparable. In my example, this would mean that the purchase value in 1980 would be 1 427 000 SEK at the time of sale in 2016. This, in turn, would mean that the inflation-protected capital gains tax would be about 172 000 instead of 390 000. Mr President, I would like to There will therefore be a significant difference which will ensure that taxation complies with the principle of a legitimate and legally secure tax system if our proposal is implemented. With today's profit calculation, the tax system helps to reduce incentives to change homes, contrary to what the government says it wants to achieve. With our model it would be more interesting for many older people who cannot cope with their old house to switch to a smaller dwelling, although this is far from the only parameter in such a decision. Fishy entrepreneurs on the left love to tax people's property holdings. The reason they usually put it this way: Real estate cannot move abroad. It's true. A common technique is to consider property ownership as a flat-rate income that can be taxed. This is a cynical way of looking at it. Just because you own your home makes no money from it — not until the day you sell it. The income during the ownership period is therefore zero. I consider this kind of treasure to be deeply unjust. Moreover, they run counter to the principle of taxation in close proximity to income. The taxation of real estate contains many and difficult rules. In addition to the annual property tax on owned dwellings, fiscal charges are added, such as law-enforcement fees, de-fragmentation fees, va-connections fees, building permits fees etc. The vast majority of these are rarely promoted as taxes, but in most cases the fees are far above what the services provided can be considered to be worth. This makes the charges to be regarded as hidden fiscal taxes. For a newly built villa, the fees can amount to several hundred thousand SEK, of which about two thirds can be attributed to hidden taxes. The charging system should therefore be reviewed so that only relevant costs may be charged. We also believe that the municipal property fee should be reviewed, and we advocate an investigation that is tasked with proposing relevant changes to the current system. Mr President, I would like to Another important issue for the housing market is that the tax system should reward foresight and seriosity. Therefore, an opportunity should be created for property owners to build tax-free maintenance funds. The current system lacks the possibility to allocate untaxed funds to future maintenance. In order to create the conditions for keeping rents down, tax-free maintenance funds should be made possible to finance future renovations. This should apply to privately owned and municipal-owned housing companies. Mr President, I would like to I agree with all our reservations, but for time to come, I only agree to reservations 2, 8 and 12.
i-162acf85688019d8-227	Mr President, I would like to Inequality is increasing in Sweden, and redistribution is decreasing. Income disparities are exploding and have increased faster than in any other OECD country. In Sweden today we have more millionaires and billionaires than ever before. At the same time, we have more poor people than we have in many decades. It is the result of a rigged tax system that benefits the very richest at the expense of everyone else. And do not be fooled, you who listen! When I talk about Sweden having more poor people than in a long time, I do not primarily talk about the EU migrants begging outside our business. I'm not talking primarily about the many outcasts who may not have a place to live. I'm talking about the part-time single mom who doesn't make ends meet. I'm talking about all the young people who are forced to work on precarious conditions. I'm talking about all those who work in underpaid industries: taxi drivers, hotel and restaurant workers, cleaning women, shop workers, nurses. I'm talking about all the poor pensioners. Many of them have worked their whole lives in the public sector or in industry. I am talking about a large part of Sweden's population belonging to the working class. But insecurity affects us all as citizens, users and employees. In a understaffed care where care places decrease and stress increases, more mistakes occur. In a working life where the pace is constantly rising and more is expected of you who have a job increases burnout avalanche. In a school with increasingly fierce competition, grade stress, too little support resources and growing classes increases mental ill health and bullying. Mr President, I would like to Last week in this House, we agreed across all party boundaries that the economy goes like a train in Sweden. The government never misses a chance to point this out. But what difference does it make that the economy goes like a train if we do not use it to make substantial improvements for everyone who lives in Sweden, if we do not ensure that equality increases and income inequality decreases? I am aware that much has been done in the last three years – often thanks to my own party, the Left Party, in cooperation with the government. But that's not enough. A change of system is required. A policy is needed that prioritises an economy for all, not just for a few who are well-off. The basic bolt is a reformed tax system which ensures that the tax on capital income, which we are now discussing, is once again increasing and that the deduction party for the very richest with, for example, interest deductions ends. We can count the billions over the years that the bourgeois were sitting in the power of government, the billions in reductions in this area as well as in other areas. The wealth tax was abolished – SEK 6 billion. A further reduction in corporation tax cost the State SEK 16 billion. The reduction in property tax also cost SEK 16 billion. Only these three examples of insane tax sink policies cost – and still cost – Sweden SEK 38 billion annually. For me, it is surprising that a red-green government is not prepared to fight for a tax system in this area that leads to greater equality and redistribution. The government is simply too lax and too cowardly in its attitude when it comes to issues such as corporate taxation, capital and real estate. Where is the government in the fight for increased corporate tax rates so that companies can bear their share? Where is the government in the battle to reintroduce the wealth tax so that the super-rich can contribute? Where is the government in the battle to reintroduce property tax? Why have you basically bought a bourgeois view of tax policy? Mr President, I would like to We heard in Ekot about two weeks ago that instead of fighting for increased corporate tax rates, the government wants to lower it. This is the upside-down world. That is something that should not happen during a red-green government. Even before the latest reduction in the corporate tax rate to 22%, it was lower than ten of our most important partners, such as Germany and Norway. When Sweden chose a few years ago to reduce its corporate tax rate to 22%, it did not take many months for the Nordic countries to follow suit. Norway, Denmark and Finland – all reduced their corporate tax rate. This is what we are talking about as a race to the bottom. And there doesn't seem to be a hive for how low that tax rate could be. Liberals are not here for the debate, but they want to reduce it to 15%. We can remove it completely – it may not be needed at all! This will lead to spill-over effects that we cannot stop, and it will happen over and over again. Income differentials in Sweden have increased faster for a long time than in all other Western countries. The reason is growing property income in the top tiers. The IMF warns of how growing income gaps and inequality lead to – listen now – a lack of growth. The IMF, this fantastic left-wing organization, as you know, has estimated that Sweden has lost SEK 175 billion in 15 years of loss of GDP growth, due to inequality. In the IMF's Taxeng Times report, the call to different countries is clear: resist pressure for further reductions in corporate tax! I hope that this government will take that advice to heart. Consider that many of the companies most benefiting from a corporate tax reduction are companies whose aggressive tax planning is eye-catching. It is companies that are exposed on a continuous basis by withholding taxes. Last year it turned out that Investor withheld SEK 2.4 billion in taxation. In total, 29 of Sweden's largest companies had withheld SEK 16 billion. Please note that this does not apply to all companies in Sweden. I agree with Jörgen: Many of Sweden's companies are heroes, who work hard to ensure that we have a good country to live in. But there are also big companies that evade the tax and actually pay less tax than the kiosk on the corner, the florist or the small organic farming needs to do. They cannot plan away their taxes in the same way. However, when the OECD makes recommendations to Sweden, there are no calls for reduced corporate tax rates. On the other hand, we are recommended to quickly address the growing inequality. I myself wonder what an election promise the Green Party and the Social Democrats fulfil by lowering corporate tax. Did you really go to elections on that demand? Mr President, I would like to One of the biggest problems we have today is the housing shortage that exists throughout the country. Not only can many not get a tenancy but are forced to buy a tenant-ownership apartment – prices flash and fuel a housing bubble that sooner or later bursts. How will the newly graduated nurse, with far too low entry salary, be able to afford a home in Stockholm? How will the young worker, without parents with capital at the bank, find a place to stay in order to continue studying in a university city? Anyone who manages to buy a cue for a few million and goes into debt over the ears of the bank hopes they are winners. Most people get a few cents a month in interest deductions. In fact, it is not those who are the winners of the system, but it is again the richest who benefit from the interest rebates, which are fast approaching $30 billion. The richest 10% one has 20 times more interest deductions than the poorest 10% one. I hope that it is clear to each and every one of you who listens that the interest rebates mainly subsidise inflated prices of villas and condos in the big cities, which actually means that it is you in the countryside – all of you who live in Falun, Motala, Bromölla and Kiruna – who finance the interest deductions for the animal islands and Täby residents. Is it really the kind of system we want? 85 per cent of the interest deduction goes to the richer half of all households. Do those who work in preschool and care really think this is reasonable? Do you who have no deductions or just a few hundred a month of deduction think it is reasonable to finance the interest deductions for the richest? The Left Party does not think this is reasonable in any way whatsoever. We do not want to redistribute resources from the poor to the rich or from the countryside to the big cities – quite the opposite. That is why we have a policy of reducing interest rates and phasing out over time. I therefore support the Left Party's Amendment No 10, which concerns a review of the interest rebates. Mr President, I would like to It is time to give priority to all those who stand at the bottom of the ladder: all those who are working hard for society to go around and for everyday life to go together, all those who make sure to carry our society on their shoulders, all who have earned nothing from the reduced taxes on wealth and property. An economy for all means that it is the workers' turn to reap the benefits of the success of Sweden's economy. It is time for the Social Democratic-led government to deliver a tax policy for greater equality – or for it to be elected away.
i-2raSCR61Am7Svj8eH4S1bQ	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Anna Johansson, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Peter Eriksson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-162acf85688019d8-255	Madam President, I would like If we allow girls to sit at the back of the bus, we also allow them to be taught to the girls that they are less worth and that they should submit to the boys. We're also telling the boys that they're gonna control the girls. The review of cold facts shows that the Al-Azhar School is responsible for spreading oppressive systems. In my opinion, this school should be closed immediately. The red-green government can no longer duck. If the government does not close the Al-Azhar school now, I can only say that the government allows gender apartheid in certain free-religious schools, and reinforces the feeling that suburban Swedes are less worthy of human rights and security than the rest of the Swedish people. It is time for Swedish politics to back up the good majority in the Swedish suburbs. That is why I would like to ask a general political question: is the government prepared to close down the religious free schools applying sex apartheid?
i-162acf85688019d8-258	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that what we have seen in the media is both despicable, as the Prime Minister has said, and totally unacceptable. Sweden is in many ways a liberal society. It's a society where people have the opportunity to live their lives as they find good, but within certain given limits. These frameworks are our laws and regulations, but also a number of fundamental values, such as gender equality. This is expressed very clearly in both school teams as well as school plans and curricula. All are documents that the Liberals have just been involved in implementing. This has been done on the initiative of the Liberals in this House. According to the same laws and regulations, the School Inspectorate has the opportunity to prosecute this. Yes, it is ultimately possible to withdraw the permit for such a school. Then my question will be back to Robert Hannah: If it is so upsetting, why have you not done anything about this for eight years?
i-162acf85688019d8-261	Madam President, I would like The Liberals were involved in strengthening the Swedish School Inspectorate. The Swedish School Inspectorate is the largest in the world – there are plenty of resources. But what they need is a tool so that they can directly go in and say: Every child in Sweden deserves security. They deserve an upbringing and a school that gives everyone the same conditions. Now it has been proven over and over again that certain free religious schools violate the children's right to fair schooling. My question is: is the government going to make sure that these free religious schools are stopped?
i-162acf85688019d8-263	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Hannah, for that attitude! I've always had it myself. Basically, our school should not divide children by religion. I presented this as a minister of school, and I was strongly attacked by the Liberals and the bourgeois parties, who did not want to tighten up. I think it's important that we now move on and see: What can we do further to make sure that it's very clear that in Swedish school you don't discriminate against girls and guys – that's what applies. It is also about the School Inspectorate actually being able to do something about this. Then it takes, I believe, that one is prepared to change rules. We are prepared to do so if it should prove necessary.
i-162acf85688019d8-266	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Baylan. We Moderates want to halve the job gap between those who have immigrated to Sweden and those who were born here. Then we need to do more to get immigrant women to work. The previous questioner mentioned the element of Cold Facts. Many with me have seen this feature this week. It was nothing new to me, but unfortunately it seems surprising to the government. If women are going to work to a greater extent, we cannot have moral police officers telling girls and women what to do in these areas. Then we cannot have women isolated in their homes by their husbands: They are not allowed to participate in Swedish education or go to work. But there we are right now, and that is extremely provocative. But, as I said, this seems to have come as news for the government. My question to the Government is: What is the government's plan to counter this?
i-162acf85688019d8-270	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson, for an important question! No, it's not news for the government. There has been information on this since before. No, we shouldn't have vice officers in our suburbs. We're gonna have real cops. That is why the government has gradually strengthened resources for the police. That is why the government is also ensuring that we focus on more police presence in our suburbs. In addition, the government has taken initiatives to ensure that women enter the labour market. For example, it is a matter of redeploying part of our social security system, so that it does not encourage you to stay home indefinitely. I also think it is important that we are very clear from society that we do not accept this. You can live your life as you find good, but it must be within the limits of laws, regulations and fundamental values, such as equality. I have a counter-question to Elisabeth Svantesson. For eight years she, among other things, was in government. Why didn't you do anything about this? Why did you wait until now and have this government take a number of measures that we think are important to implement? Why did you wait?
i-162acf85688019d8-274	Madam President, I would like Ever since I entered Parliament, I have been pushing the issue of women's rights and women's opportunities for integration. That has certainly been my priority question. But now Ibrahim Baylan has been a minister for almost three years. As I see it, there are numerous coordinators, committees, delegations and action plans. It must be enough now. I share the picture that we have to roar from. You have to dare to touch what is unpleasant if you're going to get something done. But more is required from the government, and I expect it.
i-162acf85688019d8-276	Madam President, I would like More is required from the government, and the government is prepared to take the necessary measures to ensure that it is clear that in our society people are not discriminated against on the basis of gender. It should be clear and clear. That is why we have already taken a number of measures. I've explained to you some of them. But it is not very impressive to come after eight years of government and say: Why have you not solved all these problems in three years? We will continue to work. But it is not impressive to complain only in parliament.
i-162acf85688019d8-278	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to mention what the Cold Facts highlighted this week, and I would like to put a question to Ibrahim Baylan. The report ended with Zeliha Dagli's words: We have lost ground in the suburbs. The government appointed Ibrahim Baylan as co-ordinating minister for the alienation areas almost a year ago. Six months after the appointment, in November, the government group Bayl was to chair its first meeting. In Almedalen this summer a programme was presented. A coordinator would lead the work of a delegation to break the segregation. It was nine months before the investigator was introduced. It has now been almost a year since the Prime Minister said that the socio-economically vulnerable areas are one of the government's most important tasks. It has been a year since Ibrahim Baylan was given responsibility for the questions in the government. Why is it so slow?
i-162acf85688019d8-281	Madam President, I would like Since the first day when we took over government power after the bourgeois government, which has been in office for eight years, we have given priority to issues relating to reducing gaps and increasing the integration of our society. It has been about fighting crime. We know that there is heavy crime in some of these suburbs. It's organized crime. It is about breaking long-term unemployment. We see that more and more people have a job to go to-- I still think that's the core of integration. It's about improving school outcomes. We see a general trend where school results are improving, but we continue to have a major task in increasing equivalence. That is why the government has directed support to those schools that need it most. It is also about reducing housing segregation and getting housing construction started. This too is moving in the right direction, although much remains to be done. Finally, I would like to say that it is also a matter of supporting civil society. All of this we have done from day one. In addition, we are now taking further action because we see that the need exists. That is more than the previous bourgeois government succeeded in eight years.
i-162acf85688019d8-286	Madam President, I would like It is easy to blame the Alliance Government, but the fact that it takes nine months to find a coordinator is not the fault of the Alliance Government. It's going too slow. The stakes are far too small. According to the National Police Commissioner, 1 000 police officers are in danger of being dismissed unless they receive long-term reinforcements of resources. We in the Christian Democrats have proposed just that – we want a strong commitment to the police. Much more is needed, but with the efforts presented so far by the government, it is not possible to reverse developments. More is needed, and it is too slow.
i-162acf85688019d8-288	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the fact that it is the role of the opposition to say that more is needed. I agree – it will require more, and as the Prime Minister has said, there will also be more. We have taken a large number of measures, and we will continue to do so. Closing gaps and increasing integration are central to the development of our society. That is why the government is prioritising this.
i-162acf85688019d8-291	Madam President, I would like My question, too, is about the Cold Facts programme. Once again, we have seen Islam's view of equality and equality, and finally Islam has shown its right side. Girls at a Muslim free school are put in the back of a bus that transports them between residents and schools. Why? Because they are girls, and because religion does not really believe in equality – not in the equality that all of us are trying to work with. Once again, it is revealed that the anti-democratic part of Islam does not respect the equal value of everyone and that it violates women because of their gender. What will the government do with the state subsidies that this free school receives? What sanctions can we expect to see against this school? And when will the government understand that part of religion Islam does not live up to the far-reaching work done in the field of equality?
i-162acf85688019d8-295	Madam President, I would like One of the fundamental problems with the views of the Swedish democrats is that they always pull everyone over. We have seen that there are problems here. We have seen discrimination. We have seen things that the Prime Minister has called abominable, because they are abominable. We do not accept that, and we are extremely clear about that. In addition, we have an inspection that is able to withdraw the permit if it turns out that you do not follow the school plans, curricula and school laws where it is very clear that you must not discriminate anyone on grounds of gender. Madam President, I would like It echoes a little hollow when the same party who complains about this itself has representatives who show disrespect to women. It won't be credible. To be credible, one must be clear that one does not accept that women and girls are treated wrongly based on gender, whether in religion or in politics.
i-162acf85688019d8-299	Madam President, I would like Since we entered Parliament, we have tried to draw attention to this problem. Do not try to say that you have not heard this before, for you and the alliance parties have both done so. The trends we have seen in previous reviews, so this can't be news – it's not news! We have exercised that anti-democratic associations should not receive state-funded contributions.
i-162acf85688019d8-302	Madam President, I would like I think we can agree that anti-democratic associations should not receive state funds. That is why we have a review of how these funds are to be allocated. It should be clear what criteria apply to support for democratic governance. In addition, the government is taking a large number of measures, such as the supervision of schools. It is already possible today to withdraw a permit if one sees that a school does not follow what is at the heart of the school, namely the curriculum, the school plan and the equal value of everyone.
i-162acf85688019d8-305	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. In the paradise of profits and scandals Stockholm County Council it is clear that politicians no longer have control over the healthcare agreements with the private sector. Last week we were able to read about Ultragyn at Sophiahemmet, which reportedly systematically performs unwarranted surgical procedures on women. In addition, the five operators, including the manager and the partner, are included in a bonus system which in some cases gives them 27.5 per cent of the county council's remuneration. The more expensive and extensive the surgery, the more money for both the clinic and the operating gynecologists. This is obscene. The profits risk becoming the driving force around which the business is built. Does the Minister not think that the time has come to set a foot in the search for profit in health care?
i-162acf85688019d8-308	Madam President, I would like Well, I think it's time to put a stop to the pursuit of profit in Swedish welfare. We've been naive. We have allowed profit in schools, in health care and in care for the elderly, and we have not regulated the handling of these issues. In two consecutive programmes Cold facts have now shown the effects of naivety in Swedish schools. In two programs in a row we have seen how children suffer in Swedish school. Now we have also seen reports of how the pursuit of profits in other welfare – in health care – affects patients. There are many serious, good companies that are active in Swedish welfare, but there are also rogue actors who are looking for fast money. What has happened in Stockholm County Council – what has been reported about – is totally unacceptable. We politicians have the responsibility to ensure that there are rules that create order in Swedish welfare. Those rules are missing and need to be put in place.
i-162acf85688019d8-311	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer. That sounds very positive, because we want to include all three of these areas in terms of welfare gains – including health care. It is not reasonable for patients to become victims of welfare gains. If it is the case that the mission, so to speak, of some of these companies is to get the profits out, you lose the whole ethics around these issues. It will be the patient who gets into trouble, and it will be our tax money that is spent on it, which is completely unworthy. I think this was a very exciting and gratifying answer!
i-162acf85688019d8-314	Madam President, I would like There are two aspects to this. First of all, we're gonna protect the patients, or the users. Secondly, we must protect all our serious entrepreneurs. We will protect those who run health centres and those who represent important contributions in Swedish healthcare. Their activities shall be legitimate. But in order to have legitimate activities – in order to have legitimacy for private performers in welfare – we need to have order. The Swedish state must regain control, which we have lost after introducing legislation based on naivety. Naivity affects entrepreneurs and users.
i-162acf85688019d8-317	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Housing and Digitalization Peter Eriksson. Skanova is the state-owned subsidiary of Telia that is responsible for most of the fibre and copper networks in Sweden. Laholm has started to turn off telephone stations and disconnect the old telephone network in real estate. This is done in spite of the fact that there is no fibre. In addition to households, companies are affected. The replacement solution offered is significantly worse than the capacity provided in the old network, with fixed telephony via copper wire and ADSL. Now that there is also no functioning mobile network in these locations, companies are forced to shut down or pause for an indefinite period of time. My question to Peter Eriksson is therefore how these customers will be compensated when the government is unable to live up to expectations of a smooth transition from old to new technologies for data communication in these places.
i-162acf85688019d8-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Today we are in the final phase of the switch-off of the copper grids. There are only one million customers left in Telia's copper network, so most of them have already switched to mobile telephony and other systems and networks than the old copper wire. We have also decided on a new broadband strategy, which shows that we have high targets and increased ambitions in this area. When you continue to turn off the last part of the copper networks, the vast majority have the possibility of better coverage on the mobile network or with fibre. The few who do not have it can turn to PTS for support for the conversion.
i-162acf85688019d8-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Final phase or not – in September, seven telecommunications stations in Laholm will be shut down with the result that 917 properties will be disconnected, and there are quite a few in this area. Milk robots stop working, reporting to the Swedish Board of Agriculture is made more difficult and students cannot do their homework. Rural areas in southern Halland suffer from the negligence of the government and Peter Eriksson's evasive answer to this particular question. Peter Eriksson! What is your message to Knäredsboende, who after the summer is without digital communication?
i-162acf85688019d8-328	Madam President, I would like I say there are good options. If you are worried about how to cope with the transition, you can turn to Telia, who usually offers improvements. But there are a number of different technologies today that can be used and thus get a good coverage. In addition, new networks will be deployed within a relatively short period of time, which will give us an even better coverage of mobile networks throughout Sweden.
i-162acf85688019d8-331	Madam President, I would like Almost two weeks ago, the Government commissioned the Finnish Transport Administration to develop proposals for the so-called national plan for the years 2018 – 2029. For the first time in 11 years, I see a clear link between housing and infrastructure, and I think that is a good thing. Today, in Sweden, about the same amount is being built as during the million-year period. We have a clear need. There is a deficit, because in eight years, during Reinfeldt's time, almost nothing was built. Therefore, my question to Minister Anna Johansson is whether she can explain how you connect housing construction with infrastructure. What is new in this compared to before?
i-162acf85688019d8-334	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. You can start by starting with the concept of community building. That's what we do in this government: V i build a better society. Housing is part of this. For a long time, we have had a major housing shortage. A number of years ago they talked about the housing shortage in the metropolitan municipalities, then it became in half of the municipalities and now it is not real in all but in very many municipalities. Of course, when building housing, it is of great importance that people can get to work and commute. Working transport opportunities, co-planning to see where there is potential for increased housing construction and how to support it with new transport infrastructure is the task that the Finnish Transport Agency has received. It is hoped that this will lead to both better mobility and accessibility and increased housing construction.
i-162acf85688019d8-337	Madam President, I would like It's a very good initiative. But I would like to ask the Minister what other elements are contained in the directives. Are the development issues that the Minister mentioned the only ones, or is there anything else that you can work with?
i-162acf85688019d8-338	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal in the directives. We have a great need to link this country together in a better way. We have a great need to increase the industry's opportunities for cost-effective and efficient transport. We have a great need to adapt the entire transport sector to climate change. We have a great need to supply metropolitan areas with efficient transport solutions. In all these areas, we write in the directives that the Finnish Transport Administration will come back with proposals for the adoption of the national plan. But there's even more.
i-162acf85688019d8-341	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Eriksson a question on the basis that a great deal is being built at the moment, and we all know that we need that. The Government has taken several measures to facilitate and stimulate housing construction. At the same time, more voices are being raised in order to continue to make improvements in PBL regulations and regulations to make it easier to get more housing, and there is certainly more to do. At the same time, however, this raises some concern that other areas may be forced to iron their feet. One such area is disability policy, which says that society should be designed so that people with disabilities of all ages can become fully involved in society and create the conditions for independence and self-determination.
i-162acf85688019d8-344	Madam President, I would like My answer is that we have high standards when it comes to accessibility in housing, and we should not blur these requirements. One example is the law that the Riksdag decided the other day to support the construction of temporary housing. There we place the same requirements on accessibility as in the permanent housing stock. On the contrary, we are looking at how we can improve and at the possibilities of installing elevators and the like when renovating.
i-162acf85688019d8-345	Madam President, I would like About a week ago, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government that the Government should develop a new national drone strategy to exploit the technology being developed and ensure that Sweden becomes one of the most prominent countries in the field, while taking care of the safety aspects arising from this form of technology development. That is why I would like to ask Minister Johansson how the government intends to take this announcement further, whether we can see broader participation and broader dialogue across the block border, and also with the industry, in order to achieve the best possible national strategy.
i-162acf85688019d8-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. This is a technology that opens up huge opportunities for transport but also for inspection and much more. It is, of course, important that we have clear and clear regulations, but also a clear ambition in terms of how we can use the new technology in order for it to benefit society as much as possible. Drone operations are also part of the aviation strategy presented by the government not very long ago. There is also an ongoing development of the regulatory framework for drones at EU level, which then of course has repercussions here in Sweden. The government will of course ensure that this announcement is best taken care of in the form of new ideas on how drones can be used and risks minimised.
i-162acf85688019d8-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'd like to follow up on some of my questions. How can we best involve the industry and also those universities that are becoming increasingly interested in research in the field? And how can we create a broader political consensus on the issues, so that the rule development takes place in a good way regardless of who is in the government after 2018? Stability in the regulatory environment is always important.
i-162acf85688019d8-352	Madam President, I would like I have not really understood, except in a number of interpellation debates, that there is so much political disagreement on this issue. On the contrary, I feel that there is a common strong idea of promoting this development and, at the same time, managing the risks associated with it. There I would like to see us continue to cooperate across the block line politically, but of course also with the industry, which has an important role to play. I do not feel that there are any major differences on this issue, other than possibly here in the speaker's chair.
i-162acf85688019d8-355	Madam President, I would like I address my question to the Minister for Housing. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority said today that the risks associated with the high house prices in Sweden are elevated. This poses a great risk to the Swedish economy and, of course, to individual families. Everyone who wants to enter the housing market is affected by this, and that is another reason why we need to build many more rental apartments. Last week there was a report showing that the rental right is 4 000 SEK more expensive than the right-of-occupancy right in new production because we in Sweden have the odd order that we subsidise the owned housing heavily. For example, we have tax subsidies on interest costs, which are not balanced by property tax, and we have ROT deductions that are directed only to property.
i-162acf85688019d8-360	Madam President, I would like It is an important issue to bring up the production of rental dwellings. The positive thing is that we are seeing today that there is a significant increase in the production of rental dwellings. This was true in 2016, and according to forecasts for 2017, more rental dwellings will even be built than residential units, which is positive. One reason for this is probably that the government spends a lot of money on rental housing. Our investment aid of over SEK 3 billion is directed solely to rental housing. It is housing for students and the elderly, but also for the rest of the population. This also allows reasonable price levels as it is the counter-requirement for the developers to receive this support.
i-162acf85688019d8-362	Madam President, I would like I am aware of this, of course, because it is the Left Party that has pushed through investment aid. However, the volume of subsidies to owned housing is much higher, which drives prices up. There will be a strong subsidy to the owned, which – if I understand Finansinspektionen correctly – puts the Swedish economy in this situation. In addition, the report shows that the system we have for leasing in new production – that you do not have to negotiate as usual but have what is called presumption rents, which are almost market rents – makes the rents very high.
i-162acf85688019d8-364	Madam President, I would like I don't really like saying, that's our thing. I myself have been involved in previous negotiations and discussions on budgets. I am trying to argue that the budget is a whole, and one takes responsibility for the whole. I would like the Left Party to do so in the negotiations and discussions we have on the economy and the state budget.
i-162acf85688019d8-367	Madam President, I would like I ask my question to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. Now the planning conditions have come, and the Minister had just a little while ago the opportunity to point out various initiatives that they want to take up in this. If we look at traffic and infrastructure as a bloodstream with a number of large arteries, it is important to consider how it will develop in the future with the planning conditions that are now being given. My question related to this is about when you choose not to pick up items that have been referred to before. I am thinking of West Sweden and the outflow that needs to take place via Göta River and the locks in Trollhättan. In both previous planning conditions, the major and important efforts that need to be made have been mentioned. Why are they not included in the basis submitted by the Minister for Infrastructure?
i-162acf85688019d8-370	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. In the infrastructure bill that we submitted to Parliament last October, the Government has raised the framework in December to historically high levels of infrastructure investment. 622 1⁄2 billion is what will be used in the framework for the development and maintenance of infrastructure over the next 12 years. We have chosen to commission Trafikverket to return with suggestions on which items should be prioritised in the next national plan, based on the priorities and criteria we set out both in the bill and in the assignment to Trafikverket. I think it can be noted that it is not specific objects in Västra Götaland that are not mentioned in the proposal and assignments, but we have chosen to give more general assignments with a focus on increased accessibility, freight accessibility, connection to housing and to keep the country together as some examples.
i-162acf85688019d8-374	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. At the same time, it is important that when we clarify the need for the different modes of transport and how they will work together, it is also important to name the heart attacks that we can see in the future. For example, from 2030 onwards, it is not possible to ensure the operation of the locks to the current extent. I see this as a problem, not only for Västra Götaland but for the country as a whole. It would not work if we switched this traffic to the road, because there it is full.
i-162acf85688019d8-377	Madam President, I would like There are great needs around our country, and the Finnish Transport Agency, as an expert authority and planning authority, has of course quite good knowledge of where these infarctions are. I am not sure that it would add much if the government were to point out at this early stage exactly which items are up to date. Then we've done the job before Trafikverket does. Now we choose to let Trafikverket start from the criteria we have set and then come back. Of course, there are a number of important functions that need to be ensured.
i-162acf85688019d8-380	Madam President, I would like After the government's proposal on public procurement was voted down by a parliamentary majority last autumn, the Minister of Civil Affairs recently returned with a new, substantially revised proposal. It excludes small businesses from the regulatory framework, and foreign workers no longer have a competitive advantage against Swedish workers. Those who have followed the debate recognise this. This is exactly in line with the attitude of the Swedish democrats last autumn. We welcome the fact that the Minister for Civil Affairs has taken on board the criticism we have made and therefore this morning we supported the new proposal in the Parliament's Committee on Finance. But what is remarkable is the approach. Since we have a historically weak minority government, it is up to the minister responsible to sit down at the negotiating table and anchor his proposals to ensure that he has parliamentary support. None of this was done. Now we got a compromise proposal anyway, but at the expense of taxpayers' money. I think many people are asking themselves the question: why did the Social Democrats not want to sit down as adults and talk about this earlier?
i-162acf85688019d8-385	Madam President, I would like Let me inform the honourable Member that we have had talks with the bourgeois parties. These were constructive talks that ended with our reaching an agreement with the Christian Democrats. There are two reasons why we did not negotiate with the Swedish Democrats and that we will not negotiate with the Swedish Democrats either. First of all, the Swedish Democrats have a different foundation of values and repeatedly show that they do not stand up for the equal value of all people. Secondly, the Swedish Democrats never stand up for the electoral promises they have given Swedish workers in this area. I met myself Swedish democrats out in construction sheds during the election campaign who fought for the white-job model and demands for fair terms. But after only two years, the Swedish Democrats betrayed their voters. This government will always stand up for workers' rights, and we will always continue to fight for Swedish collective agreements, wages and conditions to apply on the Swedish labour market, despite the resistance of the Swedish Democrats.
i-162acf85688019d8-390	Madam President, I would like What we have said before is that posted workers should not receive a sour cream file against Swedish workers. This was not the case in your first proposal. Even in my wildest imagination, I did not believe that the Social Democrats of all parties were ready to sacrifice Swedish workers for the benefit of foreign people. How well does it rhyme with protecting Swedish employees? Why did they avoid seeking parliamentary support for their own proposal unless they want conflict?
i-162acf85688019d8-393	Madam President, I would like I also informed the MP's party leader in the debate in Bromölla that the reality described by the Swedish Democrats is the reality that Swedish workers experience in the transport industry, in the construction industry, in the cleaning industry and in the taxi industry. This is the result of legislation that has allowed low-wage competition from foreign players to drive down the wages of Swedish workers. This government stands up for Swedish workers. In Sweden, Swedish salaries and conditions will apply, and we will push this through independently of the resistance of the Swedish Democrats.
i-162acf85688019d8-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to put a question to Minister Shekarabi. I see an exciting trend in the country with about a hundred municipalities working somehow with social investment as an attempt to meet today's and tomorrow's social challenges with a little new grip, to try to counteract future costs and exclusion with early and preventive efforts. Some municipalities have gone further than others with e.g. models for impact monitoring and investment funds. Some municipalities, such as my own, Norrköping, have even found pioneering models where private capital is also involved in funding public social investments. However, there are still many municipalities that do not feel that they are in a position to get started or move forward. My question is therefore: what does the Minister think the state can do to support municipalities in developing social investment methods?
i-FYp1DVLYfzfVRzJK9vTp9z	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Teresa Carvalho, for the question! Norrköping is a role model. We look closely at the development in Norrköping, where cooperation models are built with the private business community in order to invest to prevent social problems. I just come from a lunch with young entrepreneurs who conduct private activities but who use their commercial activities to include people in working life and work with social sustainability. In the context of the process of implementing the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Agenda 2030, the government's starting point is that we should find partnerships with the private business community that will enable social investment to a greater extent. Public procurement legislation is a tool in which we have clarified the possibility of making social demands. It can also work with social partnerships with the business community. Business is taking enormous responsibility for social inclusion already today, but with better forms of cooperation between municipalities, county councils and private business, we will be able to achieve the goals better.
i-162acf85688019d8-404	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm excited to hear that. I am very happy about the parts that the Government mentions, but I think it would still need a little more. I am thinking above all of the smaller municipalities which themselves do not have the resources to develop models for results and economic follow-up. There is a need for greater support. I wonder: what more specifically could the state do to help the smaller municipalities to develop this work?
i-162acf85688019d8-407	Madam President, I would like An important contribution we are working on is to provide support to municipalities in matters relating to social procurement, because it is a clear tool for collaboration with the private business community. We have created a procurement authority that has a mission: to provide support to suppliers, municipalities and county councils so that strategic procurements are developed. An important part of the Swedish Public Procurement Authority's work is social sustainability. There is enormous potential, not least because we have many young entrepreneurs who are passionate about social change. But then the tools must be there.
i-162acf85688019d8-410	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the State Council of Ardalan Shekarabi and concerns e-sports. There was an announcement in March 2015 that the licensing obligation or the fee for LAN games would be removed. This is regulated under the Automatic Gambling Act, which gets a little weird because that law was created in 1982 and would deal with problems in gaming halls and environments that are unsuitable for young people. Now, rather, e-sports keeps young people away from inappropriate environments. We're waiting for an answer about when to remove them. I wonder when it'll come-- we've been waiting for two years. I believe that those who wait most are the young people who have to pay the fees at LAN cafes and events. When's it coming?
i-162acf85688019d8-413	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isabella Hökmark, for an important question! In this area we have a very constructive cooperation with Isabella Hökmark's party, and we are preparing a comprehensive reform of the gaming market, including this aspect. It is important that we have legislation for the gaming market – not only slot machines and digital games, but also e-sport – which is appropriate and meets the expectations of a modern society. Today we have no such legislation. That is why we work actively at the Ministry of Finance in collaboration with the Riksdag to produce legislation as soon as possible that gives us modern rules, which also protect Swedish consumers.
i-162acf85688019d8-417	Madam President, I would like E-sport is the sport that is practiced by the most young people in Sweden and has the largest events in the world with the most viewers. Now they have applied to become a member of the Swedish Sports Federation. I know it is not a matter for us, but it has an important signal value what the Minister thinks. Therefore, I would like a personal answer to whether the Government believes that e-sport should be part of the National Sports Federation.
i-162acf85688019d8-419	Madam President, I would like I have a great deal of respect for the need for the independence of civil society. Therefore, as Minister, I am not going to express what the National Sports Federation is going to do when it comes to the management of membership. But I love e-sports, and I have great respect for the people who work with e-sports in our society. It is an area where there is potential for development in Sweden, so we will definitely provide good legal conditions for the development of e-sports.
i-162acf85688019d8-422	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eriksson and is about cash handling and the requirement to pay by card. Digitalisation and modern technology are important in today's society to provide good opportunities for citizens to live independently and not depend on others. Then it is important that we can provide good service and that we have a society for everyone. This applies to all citizens of society, such as the elderly and people with disabilities, but also to other groups that do not really keep up with the rapid development of digitalisation. Cash handling and the requirement to pay by card is an important issue for everyone. Cash management and personal payment services disappear from the banks. Over the last few years, over 500 bank accounts have abolished their cash services. Today, even half of the country's bank accounts don't handle cash. It is important that the transition to a cashless society includes everyone.
i-162acf85688019d8-427	Madam President, I would like I think this is an important issue. Cash management is decreasing dramatically in Sweden, much faster than, for example, the Riksbank has previously assessed. In practice, bank accounts are closed in smaller locations to a large extent, but ATMs are also often removed. This reduces the possibility of using cash. I think that we must still have the opportunity to do so, even though digitalisation is a positive development in general. The model we have is to have an entry in the state budget to cover additional costs in this area. It's the county boards that handle this. They have the opportunity to reach agreements with different actors, and this is increasingly happening around the country. If you have problems in a locality, you should contact the county administrative board.
i-162acf85688019d8-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have a large group in society, including our pensioners, who cannot afford or do not master modern phones or computers. It is difficult for them to handle these. It is important that we think of everyone, not just those who master modern technology.
i-162acf85688019d8-433	Madam President, I would like I think that we need to invest more in education for adults and the elderly too when it comes to digitalisation, so that everyone has the opportunity to be part of the new society. But there's a pretty good chance here. When opportunities are reduced, you can contact the County Administrative Board and try to get an agreement with, for example, the local trader about responsibility for cash management so that it can be handled in that way.
i-162acf85688019d8-435	Madam President, I would like A car goaltender may be the owner of vehicles used by other persons or companies for which the goaltender fails to pay statutory motor insurance, parking tickets, taxes, etc. The vehicle-related debts of the Kronofogdemyndigheten are now larger than ever, about 2.2 billion. In 2014, rules were introduced that give the right to seize cars, but the law has not had the intended effect. My question goes to Minister Baylan. We can speed up the process and, through legislation, deprive car owners of the right to register in the case of individuals whose due amount exceeds, for example, SEK 3 000. How does the Minister comment on such an opportunity?
i-162acf85688019d8-438	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Sotiris for an important question. As the honourable Member says, this has been a problem for a very long time. This is why the legislation has been tightened up. If it turns out that the purpose of this legislation is not achieved, to try to prosecute the behaviour that has been put into the system, then we need to go further and look at additional tools. Then, for example, the type of proposal addressed by Sotiris Delis can be such a tool. But we're not quite there yet. I think it is important to give this legislation time to operate. If it turns out it doesn't work, you have to move on.
i-162acf85688019d8-439	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Actually, the law is toothless. It hasn't worked. I have found examples of this by talking to, as it were, professional people. I come back to the proposal that the Government should, through legislation, deprive the car owner of the right of registration when the amount of the fine amounts to a certain amount – 3 000 or 5 000 SEK.
i-162acf85688019d8-441	Madam President, I would like Now the law has worked for a time, and this kind of anecdotal example comes from and to. But we also have examples where it works better, and that is when, with the support of the legislation, the authorities work together to seize vehicles registered with car keepers. Unfortunately, it is often linked to criminal activity. This kind of interaction between authorities has proved to be more effective.
i-162acf85688019d8-443	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. I received a call today from a friend who works at Försäkringskassan. He was shaken after a conversation with a person who threatened to commit suicide in a negative decision. It is very difficult to shake off such an event. Unfortunately, what happened to my friend today is only becoming more common for employees in the state. Threats and violence against employees in government agencies create mental stress and is a health and safety problem. Since government employees carry out things that have been decided by parliament and government, threats and violence against government employees are also an attack on democracy. As the main employer of government employees, the government has a great responsibility and should also set an example for other employers. In view of this, I wonder whether the Minister will carry out systematic and preventive work on health and safety at work to end threats, violence and harassment of government employees.
i-162acf85688019d8-449	Madam President, I would like I thank Sultan Kayhan for the question. This is a very central issue. In addition to the legal action taken by my friends at the Ministry of Justice, we are working within the framework of state employers' policy to prevent threats and violence against civil servants. We have just had a dialogue with the parties. The employer's office and trade union organisations are involved in the matter. This is a key issue for us to ensure that the state sector continues to be an attractive employer. A lot of students go to the government sector because they want to work in the state and because there are fantastic jobs and career opportunities. But then we must also ensure that we have a good working environment. A fundamental prerequisite for this is that we carry out systematic work against threats and violence against civil servants. This process is initiated.
i-162acf85688019d8-450	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answer and the great commitment to this issue. But threats and violence against government employees are still on the increase. Is there anything further that the Minister sees that you will be able to do in the future?
i-162acf85688019d8-451	Madam President, I would like What we need to do is provide support to the heads of agencies, so that they work systematically with this within the respective authorities. When you talk about threats and violence against civil servants, many people think about the police. However, as Sultan Kayhan describes, this type of situation exists in many different government activities. It is therefore necessary that we carry out systematic work broadly in the state. There are now processes in the entire state sector.
i-162acf85688019d8-453	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. Madam President, I would like During an election campaign some time ago, I attended a public meeting. Then a citizen came up and said: Whatever you do, don't privatize the health centre! What this citizen did not know was that it was already free, or private. He thought the quality was so good. That's the heart of the matter, isn't it? It is quality and output that we should look at, not who owns a health centre? These free health centres have led many to more employers to choose from, sickness rates are much lower in the free alternatives and there is much to be learned from this even in public health care. My question to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi is whether he wants to go back to the 1980s when the state and the municipality did everything.
i-162acf85688019d8-459	Madam President, I would like I thank Erik Andersson for the question. But I must inform him that we have had private doctors in the public health system in Sweden for a long time. It's nothing new. What is new is that we are using new freedom of choice systems – the law on freedom of choice systems introduced by the previous government. There are a lot of problems here that we have discussed during the day. The pursuit of profit in welfare has negative consequences. This does not mean that the private options are generally worse. But there are incentives that threaten a well-being based on the needs of users. This requires legislation that ensures diversity and freedom of choice for users but also high quality. Then we cannot just turn a blind eye to the problems that exist. It is clear that reimbursement models create different types of incentives. Only during the last few weeks we have seen that there are actors in Swedish healthcare and welfare for the wrong reason. Those operators shall not be present.
i-162acf85688019d8-462	Madam President, I would like If Ilmar Reepalus's investigation were to become a reality, we would end up where we were in the 1980s, because in principle there would be no private companies whatsoever operating any welfare in that country. Of course we've had private doctors before. But now there are also many women who start these companies. We have broadened this so that a larger number of people can run these companies. I think that the government is completely wrong and only causes chaos for the business when you talk about operating bans.
i-162acf85688019d8-465	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Erik Andersson has a commitment to female entrepreneurship, although we should not restrict female entrepreneurship to just certain sectors. It is very important that we have clear regulations on what applies in welfare, regulations that are supported by the Swedish people. 80% of Swedes want to see a stop to profits in welfare. Why would they want that? Because they are not satisfied with today's situation because there are shortcomings. These shortcomings create problems for users, and they create problems for those serious entrepreneurs who are working hard in their welfare. That is why we need clear rules, and I hope that the Moderates will also assume their responsibilities.
i-162acf85688019d8-469	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Johansson. Barely two weeks ago, the government decided on a directive for the action plan for the new future national infrastructure plan. As an ostgöte – I come from Motala – I am of course very pleased that the Ostlink is mentioned as one of the objects to be started during the next planning period. My question to the Government is: When can we expect a construction start when it comes to Ostlinken and high-speed roads in Sweden?
i-162acf85688019d8-473	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Andersson for the question. We have previously stated that we want the construction start that is planned for 2017 to be fixed. Then there are some difficulties relating to the cost and so on. But our ambition is for the construction of this extremely important railway stretch to start in 2017. It is important, for example, from the point of view that it is the first stage of a planned new high-speed rail system in Sweden that will significantly improve the conditions for increasing the attractiveness of the railways. But this stretch also has a very important function in itself to increase commuting opportunities and incorporate large parts of Östergötland into the Mälardal region's labour market, which also offers opportunities for increased housing construction, better commuting opportunities, increased growth and more jobs. We therefore believe that it is very important that the start of construction should take place as soon as possible.
i-162acf85688019d8-474	Madam President, I would like I have a supplementary question relating to employment. Estimates from, among others, Region Östergötland, Building and other actors show that around 19 000 jobs will be created in connection with the construction of the Ostlink – 13 000 in direct construction and the remainder linked to this. We are faced with a considerable need for new workers in that area, and I would like to hear the Minister's views on this issue.
i-162acf85688019d8-475	Madam President, I would like New infrastructure means better opportunities for growth and jobs indirectly, by providing better commuting opportunities and larger labour market regions, but it also means, of course, many jobs when the infrastructure is built and maintained. We now see that the Swedish Transport Administration is facing enormous recruitment needs in the coming years, and here – as in so many other areas – there is a great lack of competence. Therefore, the government's educational efforts are extremely important for us to meet the needs in the future.
i-162acf85688019d8-476	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the fellow Members and the Minister of State.
i-162acf85688019d8-477	Madam President, I would like Sometimes pauses come very timely, and I can imagine that the pause in our debate did. It ended up following the speech of the Left Party in the debate. As an opposition politician, after such a debate, one can consider whether the Left Party is actually part of the government base. What I would like to ask is whether there is a limit to how much you can tax companies, capital and real estate. The question is relevant when today we have a government that has actually accepted the Left Party's social image. The image of society The Left Party gives is that everything can be taxed – and that is a good thing. There is no end to taxation, and best sent to decide how to use your money is parliament and government. We Christian Democrats believe that there is a limit to how much tax can be taxed before it has undesirable effects. Unwanted effects may be that there will actually be less tax revenue or that we citizens believe that the level of taxation does not make it worthwhile to make money, so that the momentum disappears. We, as Christian Democrats, want citizens to run businesses. They will invest time, effort and money in creating companies based on their ideas. One might wonder whether taxes should not be reasonable and provide the opportunity for good quality welfare. Well, of course we should have a well-being that is jointly funded. However, increased taxation of companies or capital means that people may not make the last investment. They may not create the company they think could manage to grow, hire staff and pay the tax we actually need. In my view, high taxation also means that there may be a reduction in tax revenue. Even if the state theoretically thinks it's getting more tax money, it turns out on the last row there's a limit. What shows this most clearly is what SAS said. SAS clearly showed that there is a limit to the amount of tax that can be levied on labour when the company announced that it would move part of its business abroad. It is a state-owned company, and it moves its business abroad. One might wonder whether there is a market incentive where business start-ups and job creation are on an agenda. I mean, it does. Then we must realise that, and we must create rules that require it. Our view is that we should give a medal to all small businesses who run and develop companies in Sweden every day. As a parliament, we should do everything we can to make it easier for them. At the same time, municipalities play a crucial role in the development of the business sector. It is of the utmost importance that municipalities provide good and fast service to individual companies. An entrepreneur who sees the opportunity to develop his company right now wants to take the opportunity at the time, and this means that for example, long processing times can ruin the opportunity. Special attention must be paid to the length of proceedings in the municipalities. How companies are treated in the municipalities is very different, and sometimes it is crucial for whether companies actually develop and become larger. We must all recognise that a society must be made up of civil society, local government and business. We as politicians sometimes believe that we should only influence one of these three parts, but we have a responsibility for all three – and especially for the business community. Sure, we politicians at parliamentary level, this with business is one thing to deal with at municipal level. But that's not the case. We have to ensure that the regulatory burden is reduced and that the tax situation for companies is improved. Perhaps we should ensure the quality of many decisions. That is what we are doing when it comes to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Environment or Gender Equality, and perhaps we should also do so in the case of small businesses. Small businesses are the last outpost we expect to be able to handle everything stupid we actually decide here. I believe that we have come a long way in ensuring the quality of our decisions vis-à-vis companies through minor regulatory constraints, a tax system that is understandable in all respects and a regulatory system that does not assume that everyone cheats but trusts the individual entrepreneur in some respects, along with tax rules that harmonise with the rest of Europe and that our companies do not have a competitive disadvantage against other companies in Europe. 1 January 2008 was a day of joy. At that time, the government, on a Christian Democrat initiative, abolished the state property tax. The property tax was unpredictable and taxed values that were not matched by current income. This contributed to the growing concern of many people about the possibility of staying in their homes. With the growing popularity of a residential area, the property tax contributed to a socio-economic segregation, and those who could no longer afford to pay the tax were forced to move. The tax struck blindly and was an example of a tax that is not rooted in the depths of the people. Despite the fact that the property tax has been exchanged for a municipal property tax, the assessment value system remains and creates problems for the individual house owner. This also leaves a structure that could be used to re-establish the old real estate tax system. Today, there is little reason to maintain the rateable value system, which is why, as Christian Democrats, we are proposing its abolition. A government investigation has suggested that the forest account and forest damage account should be abolished. Instead, they are proposed to be replaced by a type of provisioning fund – an enterprise fund. The Christian Democrats reject this. The study's proposal represents a clear deterioration for forestry. The forest account and forest damage account are needed because forestry has specific conditions with the slow growth rate of the forest. Therefore, the forest account and forest damage account must remain in the tax legislation. Mr President, I would like to With those words, I support the Alliance's reservation 7 and the Christian Democrats' reservation 13. Of course, I support our other reservations.
i-162acf85688019d8-491	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder tried to attract me to this debate last week. He failed then, but you can't sit still in the boat all the time. If you have belonged to a party that has driven neoliberalism, neoliberal thinking will of course be deep in the social body, and that is exactly what has happened to SAS. They only think about one thing, and that's maximizing their profits. Thus they do not take the responsibility for Sweden that a state company should take. Now, of course, we hope that we can ensure that neoliberal thinking disappears and is at least eliminated from state-owned companies. You're asking how high the taxes can be, Larry Söder. It is clear that there are limits to how high taxes can be, but we are very far from that limit in the case of big companies, for example. For me, it is incomprehensible how the Christian Democrats might think that low taxes and tax fines with which the big companies are engaged are okay. After all, it is the small businessman who has to pay for it. When we talk about the problems of corporate tax, the tax burden and taxes that need to be increased, it is above all to hit the growing and growing companies that are paying an increasingly lower tax. Instead, let me ask Larry Söder how low he thinks the corporation tax, for example, can be. Does Larry Söder think that corporate tax should be reduced? If so, how low can it be lowered? I think that is a relevant question, because you often talk about the tax as if it could be lowered in any way.
i-162acf85688019d8-496	Madam President, I would like I very much welcome a debate on taxes! I think it is difficult to imagine that a state-owned company could relocate its business as SAS has done. I agree with Daniel Sestrajcic that it is spectacular. But I think it shows in some way that we have come to the end of the road to raising taxes on labour. One must look at the benefits of an increase and what its practical effect is. I believe that increased taxes will result in less tax revenue. Companies move abroad. The labour force will be located elsewhere than in Sweden. I think companies may not be developing their business because they are afraid of the increased cost. I therefore believe that the Left Party line that all taxes can be increased is just the wrong one. I think they can be lowered. I also believe that company taxation can be reduced. How low it can be I can answer when the Left Party responds to how high the taxes can be. It is clear that somewhere there is an intermediate position that both me and Daniel Sestrajcic may realize that somewhere there the treasure may be. However, I believe that the tax can be much lower than today, because I think we need to ensure that there are more companies that dare to start so that we get more simpler jobs that will give our new citizens here in Sweden an opportunity to create their first job and be able to participate, both in the social aspects and by actually contributing to society and bringing in tax revenues that will enable us to increase welfare. We are facing quite a lot of problems in the form of an increased cost of care for the elderly and also for other parts of municipal activities, so we must somehow make sure to pay. I do not think that the answer is to increase taxes all the time, but to create more work so that more people can share.
i-162acf85688019d8-502	Madam President, I would like Larry South is floating between high and low. On the one hand, he talks about taxes on labour, while on the other hand, this is a debate on capital taxation. All studies show that inequality is increasing because capital taxation has decreased, i.e. capital income is increasing for the top tiers. Larry Söder has no policy to reduce the inequality that has arisen over the last 20 years. The party has been in government for eight of these years and has pushed this development forward. Larry Söder talks about how he wants a good and good society where everyone comes in and so on, but he has no politics for it. As far as corporation tax is concerned, it is reasonable to raise it to 26 - 27% in any case. It was 28 per cent not too long ago. But Sweden lowered it to 22 percent and thus pushed this race to the bottom. Now it's Larry Söder's turn. Tell me how low corporate tax can be! How big a gap can he accept in order to reduce corporate tax? Every percentage reduction in corporate tax means somewhere between SEK 5 and 7 billion. Where's Larry Söder gonna take that money? After all, they do not come out of nothing, but it is money that is needed in our well-being, and it is money that must also be taken into account in order to reduce inequality and increase the redistribution of tax systems. The OECD says that we are getting less growth because of the increased gaps and inequalities that have existed in Sver ige. They estimate that over 15 years we have seen a decrease in growth of 7 proc ent, which is worth approximately 175 billion. Why do the Christian Democrats say no to growth? That's my question. And how low can corporation tax be? Larry Söder's party went to elections on reduced corporate tax?
i-162acf85688019d8-508	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that it is always assumed that anyone who makes money from capital in any way wants to shoe themselves without investing the money in new businesses. I believe that if you create a business, drive it up and get an income from it, you feel the benefit and joy of having created work there so that you might create a new business where more work can also be created. Of all those who actually are passionate about an idea and to create a company, I don't think that so many people first think that they should make so much money, but you see it as a benefit in the other end. That is why I do not believe that corporate tax should be increased so much, because I think it is an upside that is useful. It is clear that we have gaps in Sweden, for example because people who come to Sweden are now outside society in the sense that they have no work. The biggest difference is, of course, between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. I want to create less gaps in society by creating more jobs, and we cannot create more jobs without creating more businesses. Then you cannot raise taxes in the way the Left Party proposes. Nor can we create a tax system which assumes that all people want to fiddle with money. I think the vast majority are actually quite record-breaking, that is, they want to do the right thing, but sometimes we create systems that make them actually unable to do the right thing. We must ensure that those who want to do the right thing can do it in a simple and clear way. We are going to frame those who want to fiffle taxes, but we need to find other systems for that than to raise taxes to infinity. I think the Left Party's path is completely wrong, and I think the government is wrong when it sits on the Left Party's knee, because that is what has been done.
i-Ja88A6kqDEkHr7v8jQn4nu	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to support the proposal of the Committee on Taxation in its Sku23 report on the taxation of companies, capital and real estate. Madam President, I would like Sweden is doing well, so good that the bourgeoisie has problems with its agitation. The growth forecast is over 2 per cent in 2017, which is higher than in comparable countries in Europe and higher than expected in Finland, Denmark and Norway. Growth is broad and driven by increased private investment, mainly in housing construction and consumption, both private and public. After eight years of bourgeois standstill in housing construction, it is built as never before. Preliminary construction of 63 100 apartments was started in 2016, an increase of 34 per cent compared to 2015, which in itself also showed an increase compared to the bourgeois years. Unemployment is falling. Since we took office, about 150,000 more people have a job to go to. We have the highest employment rate in the EU and the highest in Sweden since 1992. Unemployment is below 7% after remaining at around 8% of the financial crisis. We also had large surpluses in public finances in 2016, which means that the government has so far had two years of surpluses of two possible ones. This is about 11 billion in 2015 and 40 billion in 2016. The share of government debt in GDP is falling. We see all this, Madam President, even though the government has implemented modest tax increases. People flock to work without fear of marginal taxes. The fact that there are more jobs also shows that the companies are doing well. Some actually paint Sweden as a tax haven with low corporate taxes and generous depreciation opportunities. Housing taxation is also low, and at low interest rates those who own their dwelling live cheaper than those who have rental rights. The so-called tax ratio, the share of taxes in GDP, is still low by Swedish standards and will not reach the level for 2010. Madam President, I would like It is important to have this background when we look at the report on companies, real estate and capital. It is easy to get the picture of a tormented and overtaxed sector of exercise and reservations when it is almost the opposite. In addition to securing good and stable tax revenues, tax policy should also create the conditions for sustainable growth, high employment and fair distribution of wealth and contribute to an environmentally and socially sustainable society. It is the companies and the employees that together create prosperity. This cooperation is the foundation of the Swedish model. The environment and good working conditions are not in contradiction to growth, rather the opposite. The climate and environmental challenges create new businesses and new jobs. Good working conditions accelerate employees' efforts at work and enable them to exploit all the knowledge and skills they possess. There is nothing to gain from low wages and the absence of collective agreements. Tax policy should be designed in accordance with a number of guiding principles dealing with a legitimate and fair tax system, general and clear rules, taxation in close proximity to income and sustainable rules in relation to the EU. The Government considers that tax expenditure, i.e. support for households and companies on the revenue side of the budget as a result of special rules, such as reduced tax on certain goods and services, should be regularly reviewed. Madam President, I would like Two important investigations for enterprises and entrepreneurs are being prepared in the Government Office, and around them there has also been conversation with the bourgeoisie. On 8 October 2014, the Tax Simplification Investigation submitted to the Government its proposal for simplified tax rules for individual traders and natural persons who are partners in partnerships. On 12 June 2014, the Business Tax Committee, perhaps even more important, submitted its final report, Neutral Corporate Tax – for increased efficiency and stability. Some tax rules, not least for companies, should be stable over time over a parliamentary term and robust enough not to be changed by a change of government. It would therefore be good to have a broader consensus on what is to come out of these two findings. Few people's corporate taxation, the so-called 3:12 rules, must be commented on. The rules are a complicated matter, and the regulations were changed more than once during the previous government without anyone actually being really satisfied. The tension between the higher taxation of labour income and the lower taxation of capital income has increased significantly since the 1990-1991 tax reform. The purpose of the 3:12 rules was once to counter the transformation of income, which the regulatory framework has apparently been less and less successful. At least the 2014 bourgeois changes had the intention to slow the transformation, which was also something that a unanimous tax committee called on the government to do. The result was poor, I understand. The current government came up with a new investigation whose proposals have also been rejected by many. The government has now referred a scaled-down proposal that hopefully will still reduce income transformation while more entrepreneurs find it legitimate. It is also important that ownership shifts between relatives are facilitated so that we can keep more of our Swedish family businesses. Finally, I should like to say a few words about BEPS, whose various sub-proposals and handling in the EU context have kept us in the Committee on Taxation and even more so those in the Committee on Taxation who are also on the EU Board of Governors busy. I think it is a good thing to bring about a global regime that makes tax evasion more difficult and puts out tax havens. It is, to say the least, regrettable that the financial system, the banks – including Swedish banks – are a bit of the engines and enablers of tax evasion. Let's remember who's better off with tax havens, confidentiality and tax evasion. In fact, it is not just directors who hide a few coins in Switzerland. No, global tax evasion is the life air of terrorism and the large and, unfortunately, growing criminal organisations. Honorable companies and entrepreneurs should not suffer from unfair bank competition, threats and blackmail from criminals and bandits. I believe that we all agree on this across party boundaries. That is why the OECD's work against tax evasion and tax havens is so good. Much more is certainly to be said about various motions and issues in the report, but I will stay here.
i-162acf85688019d8-532	Madam President, I would like It was exciting to hear you speak, Jamal, because a large part of your speech was about how well Sweden is doing. It certainly does, in economic terms, but the problem is that it does not benefit everyone. You who come from Malmö, just like me, know how tough it is in a city like Malmö. The city is currently experiencing major cuts and reductions in operations, and there is a lack of substantial resources. One of the reasons is that there is not enough government money for municipalities. The reason for this is that there is too little money because of the rigged tax system that benefits those who have the very best. You said a little bit that you think it's unfair what the housing market looks like. That is why I wonder: how can you and your party accept the interest rebates which, for the most part, go to high-income earners, and why can you not agree to the proposal made by the Left Party that we should review the interest rebates in order to phase them out? My second question concerns corporation tax. It is a tax that the Social Democrats have been involved in before, 2012. According to Ekott, we now want to reduce corporate tax again. Why does a Social Democratic government, and why do you want corporate tax to be reduced when we know it needs to be increased rather and when we know that both the OECD and the IMF are recommending that everyone resist pressure to reduce corporate tax? Do you think that a reduced corporate tax system leads to a fairer tax system?
i-QPU34fqBC9JSNjLjj2rDEr	Madam President, I would like A series of measures to reduce risks in the financial system and household indebtedness have been taken in recent years, including: strengthened capital requirements and increased risk weights for mortgages as well as cap on mortgages. On 23 March 2016, the Swedish Parliament adopted the Government's proposal for amortisation in connection with new mortgages, which will apply from the beginning. 1 June 2016. ..................................................... It is important to be able to have such requirements. The Government argues that, together with the responsible authorities, the development of household indebtedness and house prices is closely monitored to see if further measures are necessary. The Government Office is currently preparing the question of whether Finansinspektionen should be given a broader mandate to introduce measures to, inter alia: reducing the risks of household indebtedness. The Swedish Parliament's Committee on Finance has also pointed to the need for a coherent and clear framework for Swedish macroprudential policy and stressed the importance of the government coming back with proposals on this in the near future. The government has stated that it is important to maintain stable and predictable rules for such important decisions as the purchase of housing. The need for action in this area must be seen in the long term and handled with care. This is particularly true for example in the case of: changes in the interest rate deduction. The committee shares the government's assessment. In view of this, the committee is not prepared to address an announcement to the government about a review of the interest rebates, and the motions are rejected. .....................................................
i-162acf85688019d8-539	Madam President, I would like I also read the whole text of the report before this debate, Jamal El-Haj-Haj. It was a pity that you did not answer why, in addition to what the report says, you believe that it is a social democratic policy not to touch on the interest rebates. An absolute majority goes to high-income earners. Why is it good distribution policy? We can let it go, because much more important is corporate tax. Do you think that's reasonable? Will you, as a Member of Parliament, talk about fiscal policy in Malmö and say: We Social Democrats are proud that we have once again reduced corporate tax, that we have once again made sure that the big companies get even more money to move around with while we are making cuts in our schools and preschools? You and I both come from Malmö. We know what the situation is there. This money is needed somewhere else. I repeat: the IMF, the World Bank and all major international organisations are saying that we should resist the pressure to reduce corporate tax. This leads to increased inequality. This leads to major gaps in society. Surely it cannot be a reasonable social democratic policy to stand at the same time and talk about having a fair tax system. Are you serious? Will this be your election promise in the next election? Will you stand and beat your chest for lowering corporate tax? Do you think it is fair and reasonable policy?
i-162acf85688019d8-543	Madam President, I would like I wanted to read the committee's position on interest rebates because many have not read it, even if you have, Daniel Sestrajcic. It was therefore important for me to read it to the audience and the entire Swedish people who are listening to us today. You're saying that the interest deduction benefits those who are high-income recipients. You're wrong. I know many families with children and workers who have their own villas and who actually benefit from the interest rebates. They have appealed: Don't touch that part! I am concerned that we ourselves can help to break the real estate bubble. I know too many people who are affected by this. That would be problematic for many of those who are not high earners. The Social Democrats see to it that the whole society works. We look at those who have a job, those who live in a villa and those who have a tenancy. We also ensure that the whole of Sweden, including the companies, is doing well. As far as corporate tax is concerned, we do not want to contribute to companies not being able to invest and thus not being able to contribute to more jobs going to ordinary people. For many years, therefore, the Social Democrats have contributed to the success of many companies, such as Ikea and the entire Wallenberg sphere. This has meant that welfare has improved over the years.
i-162acf85688019d8-548	Madam President, I would like It was rather entertaining to listen to the debate between the Left Party and the Social Democrats. The Left Party, which is the budget and government base, is fiercely arguing against the Social Democrats. It would be exciting to listen to their budget negotiations a little more often. I have two questions for Jamal El-Haj-Haj. The first concerns 3:12. I want to hear how the Social Democrats reason. Last week we debated VAT issues, among other things. The government has chosen to reduce VAT for nature guides. I suppose we want to create jobs in that sector and use taxes to stimulate demand. However, in the case of 3:12 and small businesses, the choice is to increase the tax widely, for all small businesses. As a result, all few companies receive increased tax. How does logic go together? Why do you choose the tiny tax relief for nature guides, while you hit hard on virtually all small businesses throughout Sweden? How does it work? My second question concerns the Competitiveness Investigation. The Moderates believe that it must also take account of taxes. Why do the Social Democrats choose not to collect taxes in a competitiveness inquiry, when we know that taxes affect competitiveness very much?
i-162acf85688019d8-552	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you for your line. When it came to 3:12, I was very clear in the speaker's chair. I spent two minutes explaining to you and the audience what we mean by that, Jörgen Warborn. After all, it is problematic. In your reservation, you are talking about the need to revise the legal framework for small businesses. I agree that a review must look at jobs, growth and entrepreneurs, as you have written in your reservations. At the same time, we cannot have a regulatory framework that attracts and enables income transformation on a larger scale. If it drops a little from a pond, it doesn't do much. But if the holes get bigger and bigger, the dam risks breaking. This is about the way we reason on 3:12. If more and more people begin to consider 3:12 rules as a way to get lower taxes and start companies mainly for that reason, it will not be good. The legitimacy of the tax system is weakening. The whole thing is about a balance. The rules should be generous enough to encourage entrepreneurship and production. As a result, more jobs will be created in small businesses. At the same time, there is a need for rigour so that companies do not become paper constructions with the aim of bringing the tax down. This means that the tax system does not become legitimate. Our fear is based on the fact that it can be used for that purpose.
i-162acf85688019d8-557	Madam President, I would like It seems clear from the argument that the Social Democrats and the government want to restrict entrepreneurship. I don't think that's really the way it is. But that could be the effect of the policy you pursue, Jamal El-Haj-Haj. A small problem is being tackled, but all small businesses are being hit. It is strange that this is coming now, when we know that a distance of 980 000 people are excluded. I agree with the image drawn by Jamal El-Haj in her speech; Sweden is doing well in many ways. But this does not apply to the whole of Sweden, not to the 980 000 people who are in exclusion. If they are to get into work, small businesses are needed. We know that four out of five jobs are created in small businesses. It is therefore strange that the government chooses to tax small businesses even harder. I think it is a very unfortunate policy that will be completely wrong in terms of jobs. It was also mentioned that the tension between the tax on income from services and the tax on income from capital is a problem. That is why we want to change this by means of the 3:12 rules. But the government itself has chosen to increase this tension by changing the layer line. Finally, I did not get an answer on the Competitiveness Investigation and on how to discuss taxes there. This is not really just about the Competitiveness Investigation. This also applies to the Entrepreneurship Investigation. Even there, the investigator doesn't look at taxes. But also when it comes to entrepreneurship, we note that taxes are important for competitiveness. Why do the Social Democrats absolutely not want to talk about taxes when it comes to creating Swedish competitiveness? It is one of the tools in the toolbox to make Sweden work better, to get more companies to grow and for more jobs to be created.
i-162acf85688019d8-562	Madam President, I would like Thank you for agreeing. Nevertheless, I would like to confirm that, in their long history, the Social Democrats have ensured that Swedish companies are doing well. It's going so well that they're hiring today. In fact, 150 000 more people have a job to go to – this since we took office two years ago. The image you want to give of the fact that things are going so badly and that we have far too much taxation is wrong. It doesn't add up. You just have to look around to see how well this country is doing. Historically, Sweden has had a high level of taxation. Are we one of the poorest countries in Europe or the world? No. Do we have such gaps and abundance as can be seen in the United States, for example? No. Sweden is a rich country. When things need to be addressed, the Social Democrats will do so, of course in government with the Green Party. I am repeatedly surprised when one chooses from the bourgeois direction to agitate as one does. It is said that things are not going so well and that it is so bad at the same time as the figures look much better than you claim. I could have commented on a lot of things. Just look at the numbers. Look at how much we have built in recent years! You didn't do it for eight years. Look at the number of people going to work! Look at the number of unemployed who are falling! The picture you want to give is not correct.
i-162acf85688019d8-568	Madam President, I would like There are many questions that come up in my head in view of the question that the Moderates had. I understand the policy of the Social Democrats. One should represent a government that should stick together in the argumentation, and one has two parties to consider. I understand from your speech that there is a balance. Nevertheless, I would like you, as a Social Democrat, to reflect on two issues. The first question concerns the 3:12 rules. The Moderates were also involved in their speech. Then you said you had a picture of the 3:12 rules as a pond that it dripped from, and you're trying to correct this. I'd say you're not just letting the water out of the pond, but you're walling it up too. You would probably do what you say, that is to say fix the little hole that exists, if you think there is a problem here. But what you are doing with the proposal you have now is increasing the tax burden on small businesses by 3 billion. It is, in fact, small businessmen who are largely paying for your party. That dam will be expensive for small businesses. I would like you to reflect a little on whether you think that the tax burden on small businesses is far too low in this country, because you are doing this. In your speech, you talked mostly about entrepreneurs as being tax fraudsters and trying to hide money abroad. I do not see it as a social democratic policy. I think you have a positive picture of small businessmen and entrepreneurs in general. I would like you to say something positive for one minute about why Sweden needs entrepreneurs. I think I can offer you that.
i-162acf85688019d8-575	Madam President, I would like The inquiry's proposal for new 3:12 rules has received widespread criticism, and we understand that from the Social Democrats. Many so-called template articles have appeared in the county newspapers designed by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I don't think many of the signatories really know what they're signing. Moreover, an investigation proposal is not the same as a government proposal. On 22 March 2017, the Government presented its draft legislative referral. The amendments to the 3:12 rules of the investigation proposal would have hit the smallest companies hard. A number of changes have been made to ensure good conditions for them. The flat-rate amount, the simplification rule, which is used by most partners, is not reduced and salary requirements are not increased. The calculation of the salary base has changed to make it more advantageous for smaller companies. The capital requirement is replaced by a better rule. I hope you understand what it means with different investigations and with the level that we look at them. Then you're saying I've been against companies making profits. Then you misunderstood me. I have always talked about tax havens and how the money is moved in a way that does not benefit serious Swedish entrepreneurs.
i-162acf85688019d8-580	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it must be noted that it was the government that announced the proposal to amend the 3:12 rules. I have to say that the government is behind this. This proposal still includes a tax increase for small businesses, which increases revenue to the state by 3 billion. Then my question is still to the government option, that is, the Social Democrats: do you think that small businessmen are too low taxed in Sweden, because you want to increase the tax for them? My view is that the opposite should have been done, i.e. ensuring that small businesses can live, thrive and perhaps develop in Sweden. Maybe we'll start up a little more small businesses. There are studies showing that there are many older small businesses, but there are quite few younger small entrepreneurs. It would have been nice if the government had made a proposal that also means that younger people dare to start, run and develop small businesses. You could do that instead of raising taxes on small businesses. You give a picture of all entrepreneurs trying to find some tax haven to evade tax. I believe that there are many small businesses who are good, robust and try to comply with all the laws and regulations that exist. I am absolutely convinced that the Social Democrats agree with me. That is why I wanted you to speak positively for one minute about entrepreneurs in contrast to the image that the Left Party, which supports the government, gave here. I'll give you another chance. I will give you one more minute to speak positively about entrepreneurs and small businesses. Why does Sweden need small businessmen from the perspective of the Social Democrats?
i-162acf85688019d8-586	Madam President, I would like I will repeat what I said from the speaker's seat, so that we agree here. I said: Honorable companies and entrepreneurs should not suffer from unfair competition, threats and blackmail from villains and bandits. We all agree on this across party boundaries. We do not want honest companies to be exposed to competition. You gave me a minute, and I'll tell you why you pay taxes, which perhaps the Christian Democrats have missed over the years. It is important to tell us why we have taxes. We have this to fund all the welfare we want: childcare, school, health care, care for the elderly. We also need taxes on defence, police, housing, infrastructure, research, etc. Taxes are not an end in themselves, and they cannot, of course, be so high. We don't take up taxes just to put the money on the line. The money should of course be used for all kinds of good things. Taxation must be linked to what we want to do. Again, Sweden is not a poor country. Sweden has always worked to benefit entrepreneurs. The Social Democrats have always benefited the workers and the small business community. We always have. Historically, we can see how much we have achieved over the years. If any party understands entrepreneurship, it is the Social Democrats. We are the ones who have made small businesses grow and become large national companies. This applies to Ericsson, Ikea and Astra, who have started as a small business. It is we who have worked for many years to benefit these companies, and we have given them good conditions. I and the Social Democrats have a very positive view of entrepreneurs.
i-162acf85688019d8-591	Madam President, I would like Tax rules should be effective economic instruments but also promote a legitimate and fair tax system. We need to place greater emphasis on taxes that correct problems and do not distort the economy. By reducing the tax on what we want more of and increasing the tax on what we want less of, we achieve double profits. This simple principle was followed in the Alliance during our eight years in power. We reduced income taxes and corporate taxes while at the same time increasing the CO2 tax and rewarding environmental cars through bonuses, to take a few examples. Another example of measures that center-party ministers have been involved in was the increase in the nuclear waste levy, in accordance with parliamentary decisions. The nuclear industry itself has to take the cost of its activities. One of the bets that the Center Party has presented for the next budget is the introduction of a green car bonus. The proposal means that those who buy cars that pollute more will have to pay a little more. At the same time, we give a big bonus to those who choose to buy a climate-smart car. In this way we reach the goals of a fossil-free Sweden without compromising the conditions for those who need a car. It is a simple, effective and good environmental policy. Notable is that the government has recently announced a bonus – Malus proposal for cars with lower ambition and less climate benefit. The government has turned its taxes on self-produced renewable electricity. It is good that the tax is reduced, but it needs to be completely removed, as the Center Party has recently put forward in a motion. The government shows a lack of ambition in the transition to fossil-free energy production. If we are to achieve the goal of a fossil-free Sweden, there must also be stronger incentives for the larger producers, such as companies, municipalities and county councils, to install solar cells. I am very concerned that the government is announcing more and more taxes that lead to fewer jobs, while regional splits are increasing. Unfortunately, the government continues to argue for and prepare for the introduction of what is called road wear charge. It's nothing but a treasure from a distance. A distance-based kilometre tax will particularly affect businesses and people living and working in rural areas. Controls that have a one-sided focus on distance rather than on fuel and emissions should be avoided for obvious reasons. The environmental impact of such instruments is very low, as alternative transport infrastructure is lacking in many places in the country. Furthermore, it is clear that the Government intends to introduce a tax on air traffic. It is a tax that, according to the Government's own investigation, will not lead to a reduction in emissions, partly because alternatives to flights on longer journeys are often lacking. In places like Visby and Östersund, aviation is still necessary. Our country is elongated, and there is no possibility of using the railways in much of the country. Aviation tax is a tax that affects rural areas. It can lead to international traffic being placed in our neighbouring countries. It is a tax that contributes to the split of the country, and it affects competitiveness and therefore jobs. Madam President, I would like It should be possible for Sweden to push forward in the transition to renewables by reducing the tax on biofuels and thus stimulating the next generation of vehicle fuels. The government must influence the EU regarding a change in the Energy Taxation Directive that enables Sweden and other EU countries to tax-stimulate climate-smart alternatives. Let me also highlight the Alliance-wide motion contained in the report, which deals with certain state aid requirements in the field of fuel. We note with concern that entrepreneurs bear witness to the continuing increase in the administrative burden on businesses. The government needs to carefully report the effects the amended laws are expected to have on Swedish entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants to change the tax system. We want to introduce regional tax bases and want to start with the property tax on electricity-producing properties. We want to decentralise and move power, powers and decisions closer to people. We want municipalities to have the opportunity to decide on congestion charges and that the revenue will be allocated to the municipality. The conditions for making decisions at municipal level on congestion charges where the use of revenues is decided locally should therefore be investigated. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight the centre motion which is about exploring the possibility of reducing the alcohol tax for small local breweries. Sweden's relatively high taxes on alcohol and tobacco have had undesirable effects. According to the evaluation carried out by the Tax Committee last year and presented in June 2016, high tax rates contribute to increased imports from other countries, thereby reducing government revenues. The aim of the alcohol tax must be to curb abuse. My picture is that the country's microbreweries focus on producing quality beer in limited volume. It would be desirable if we could change current patterns of consumption – with consumption increasingly consisting of contraband – to promote a more healthy alcohol culture. One way would be to reduce, like many other EU countries, the level of taxation on beer produced by breweries with a small volume of production. Finally, I want to back up all the reservations of the Alliance and the Center, but for time winning, I only approve of the Center's reservation 2 and the Alliance's reservation 3.
i-162acf85688019d8-614	Mr President, I would like to Excise duties are generally used to steer consumption in a desirable direction, for example by reducing consumption or consumption of certain goods. We have taxes on alcohol, energy and tobacco as clear examples of this. These three taxes are also our oldest excise duties. The excise duties give the State a revenue of approximately SEK 126 billion. In a country like Sweden with a high tax burden of 43.9%, excise duties account for 3.3% of the total tax burden. In other words, there is little room to raise taxes further in this country. On average, the tax burden for OECD countries is 34.3 per cent. So there is a big difference between Sweden and the average, and it must not increase. The parties on the left see tax as the money of the state. Yes, it is a revenue to the state that is decided by law, but it is always someone who should pay. Those who pay are all who have an income and all who consume a service or a commodity. It is you and me; it is the citizens of Sweden. It is the companies that create jobs, and it is the companies that generate revenue for the state. Deteriorating the climate for businesses, as the government does, is not a good strategy. Of course, some of these taxes go to fund the common welfare, but there is a tendency to open up the tax crane when the money is not enough instead of looking at how the state activity can be more effective. Are we doing the right things for the money that citizens contribute? That's a question you should ask yourself every day. Mr President, I would like to A squandered crown of taxes is a theft from the people. It is therefore important for authorities to be cost-effective and for the state to ensure that fraud and fraud are prevented. It's part of the social contract between the people and the state. If the state does not fulfil that confidence, it risks undermining tax standards, and we are really dangerous out there. Similarly, when we overestimate a commodity, we are really dangerous out there. Then revenue to the State will fall, not because consumption will necessarily decrease, but because private imports will increase. We have known examples of this with regard to excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. Of course, it is difficult to find the exact, optimal balance, but I assume that we are at risk where the expected revenue increases will not be achieved in the future. Daily you can hear about all the new taxes that the government wants to introduce. I see it as my duty as moderate to prevent harmful taxes from being introduced. Therefore, the Moderates say no to a truck tax, also called road wear charge. It affects rural businesses. Swedish industry does not need more punitive taxes but better conditions to become even more competitive. We therefore believe that such a tax should not be introduced. We say no to harmful tax increases on transport. The Moderates are making an effort with reduced tax on diesel for agriculture in order to reduce costs and strengthen competitiveness. We increase the reduction by 50 øre per litre compared to the government's proposal. This effort is greater than the government's total compensation for agriculture and forestry. We say no to the introduction of a national airline tax. Companies and people should be able to operate throughout Sweden. Sweden's large distance makes us completely dependent on a working flight. Aviation tax only makes flying more expensive and has almost no impact on the environment. If you want to do something about the environment, it is global solutions and international cooperation that are needed in the first place. Of course, we agree to preserve Bromma airport and other important airports around the country. Mr President, I would like to We also say no to petrol tax by refraining from the over-indexation introduced by the government. It will affect all who depend on the car. The government's taxes on petrol hit those who do not have good public transport nearby and thus have no alternatives, i.e. everyone outside the big cities. It is fundamentally good to favour the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles, but of course we have criticism of the government's proposal. The government is more interested in designing a system to collect tax money than in designing a system that accelerates the conversion of the vehicle fleet. In other words, the government is committed to increasing the taxation of everything and everyone. Solar power and wind power for own use were exempt during the time of the Alliance. The government introduced a tax on solar electricity for its own use. It was then argued that it was the EU's fault that the tax was increased. Now the accident is corrected and a tax that did not previously exist is reduced, after the European Commission representative in Sweden has said that it was not at all the EU that forced the government to introduce the tax on solar electricity. This is very strange. The Moderates also want to review the landfill tax to encourage the extraction of materials from old landfills. Unfortunately, today's system is designed in a way that makes it difficult to recover important resources from waste streams. The system is built in such a way that it will be cheaper to extract new raw materials from nature than to recycle from society's vast waste streams – a misthinking here too, Mr President. We say no to the continued tax on fertilizers. The government withdrew it when it was feared that the tax risked a setback in the Riksdag. It would hit Sweden's farmers hard. We say yes to the government continuing to withdraw harmful taxes so that Sweden can develop rather than complicate everything for everyone. I have a thought, Mr President. You get the feeling that the Prime Minister's first words when he wakes up in the morning are not good morning, it's time for more people to go to work and, instead, good morning, what tax should we raise today? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr President, I would like to We have the highest tax burden in the world. Under these conditions, new tax increases should be studied very carefully. In the end, it is always consumers – you and I, Mr President – and other citizens who have to pay an increased tax, directly or indirectly. The Alliance considers that overall there is no impact assessment of the impact of new taxes and regulations on businesses. Of course, we want to change that and look forward to better impact assessments on how new taxes affect companies in Sweden. In other words, Mr President, the Moderates are simply calling for more freedom and less tax bureaucracy. Having said that, we are in favour of the Alliance's reservation No 3 and the Moderate's reservation No 17.
i-De3Adk2rhhLXwVmiaaY3jG	Mr President, I would like to In report 24 Excise duties, the Swedish Democrats have six reservations, but for time to come I only ask for the approval of reservation 12. Excise duties, taxes on specific goods and services, act as an instrument to influence production and consumption in the desired direction. The Swedish Democrats have no objection to excise duties being used to discourage the use of products that are harmful to public health and the environment. But this instrument must also be used with some thought. We note that excise duties make a welcome contribution to the Treasury. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's 2015 Statistical Yearbook, excise duties have for a long period of years generated tax revenues of around SEK 100 billion each year. Sometimes, however, there seems to be an over-reliance on this instrument. Taxing the use of substances deemed to be harmful to the environment on a point-by-point basis may lead, if it is done in the wrong way or to an excessive extent, to companies and work being moved from Sweden abroad, while the actual environmental benefit is negligible or none at all. What we have repeatedly objected to is how certain excise duties affect the Swedish countryside. A very large part of Sweden's area consists of rural areas. That these parts continue to live stands and falls with those who live and work there. We want to balance what we perceive as a big city fixation by to some extent turning the focus towards the part of Sweden that lies outside the big cities. We believe that Sweden is a whole and that what is good for the countryside is good for the whole of Sweden. Sometimes one might think that the government seems blind to the conditions and challenges of the countryside and to the consequences of its policies. Public transport investments are good, and in the big cities there are many opportunities to choose public transport instead of the car. In rural areas this is not always the case and is unlikely to be the case for the foreseeable future either. If we continue to want a living countryside, then instruments and efforts must be made with a holistic view, allowing both the city and the country to live. The government's instruments are mainly built around the city's conditions – for example, increased fuel tax, air tax and the previously proposed kilometer tax – and risk instead being beaten to the mercy of a large part of Sweden's countryside. The government should seriously consider reviewing the indexation of fuel taxes. Many have found that air tax at national level can be harmful to industry and in practice does not lead to an improvement in the environment or to a reduction in emissions. However, I believe that in some places there is an over-reliance on the introduction of air tax at European level, or at European level. I have noted that the Liberals have such a reservation in the report, and the Liberal representative is very much allowed to come up and reassure the Members of this House that it is not an EU tax that they are looking for. In the past, we in the Swedish Democrats have taken a stand against the proposal for a road-wear tax, and it is gratifying that the proposal previously considered does not appear to be being implemented, at least not in a hurry. In this case, we have made our position in the light of rural opportunities for survival and the competitiveness of business. Mr President, I would like to The introduction of the chemical tax is very ill thought out. Sweden is far too small a country to influence on its own the use of various chemicals by global electronics giants for example fire safety. Nor does the proposal provide incentives to use better alternatives. The actual target, to reduce exposure to certain chemicals, is at best marginal. The introduction of this tax will instead mean an increased administrative burden for both public authorities and industry and a loss of competitiveness for Swedish industrial companies, as well as creating strong incentives to redeploy company structures in order to increase online trade in order to circumvent the tax. This, in turn, means that Sweden loses jobs, employers' contributions, income tax, VAT and corporation tax. This will make Sweden poorer. A further question that should be absolutely central in this context is how to get back the businesses that companies choose to locate in one of our neighbouring countries. A wide range of consultation bodies reject the proposal and believe that it will be costly and will impose an increased administrative burden on both companies and authorities. The proposal reduces the conditions for internationally competitive industrial development in Sweden. The chemicals tax should not be introduced, and the government should urgently come back with a new strategy on how to work against potentially harmful chemicals – hence my reservation request.
i-162acf85688019d8-646	Mr President, I would like to These debates are always exciting, especially when their outer poles appear. I realise that I am an outside pole in this debate. I am a welfare hugger, unlike Erik, who is a tax hater and therefore a welfare hater. It is so simple that you need to collect taxes in order to finance welfare. It's not harder than that. It's not like I love treasure. I think we can have a lot of lower taxes. We can ensure that the tax gap between pensioners and those who work is evened out. We can ensure that the tax gap between the sick and those working is removed. That is what we are now doing with the government. Of course, there are taxes that it is good to lower. But there are also a great many taxes that it is good to have to finance welfare, to control consumption and to change society. But if you are a market fundamentist, which I think Erik from Täby is, you do not want any taxes at all. Then we can remove every treasure. Good luck with that, I say. Then I think you also have to answer where that money should be taken. I listened to the debate last week. At the time it was referred to, among other things, the Swedish meeting – it is the Moderates' big Sweden meeting – where they talked about streamlining away 28 billion of the welfare. Let's decode that language! Effectively remove means: a small number of pre-school staff and a small number of elderly care staff. That means cutting down on welfare. It means that you who work in welfare will get tougher. You will have fewer workmates, not more workmates, who are what you need. Therefore, you should beware of tax haters if you do not belong to the Mothers' core voters and live in Täby, in Danderyd or on Lidingö and earn from all deductions and tax cuts or belong to the owners of the big companies – these are the ones we are talking about. Erik! You and I are each other's opponents. I'm very happy about that. Mr President, I would like to The excise duties we are going to talk about here are used to influence the behaviour of people and companies. It's proven to be working. For health reasons, we want to reduce smoking and alcohol consumption, among other things, we are working to raise prices with the tax tool. We do this because it is harmful and destroys. In the environmental field, we have several excise duties to steer in a climate-smarter and more environmentally friendly direction. Excise duties make it easier for people and businesses to choose the options that are good for society as a whole in everyday life. Of course, excise duties are also crucial when it comes to financing the welfare and state costs of living in a country with, for example, roads, railways and many other goods. 126 billion is no small amount of money. I believe that the City of Malmö's municipal budget – Sweden's third largest city – is around 22 billion. We are talking about six seven times the City of Malmö, with 24 000 – 25 000 employees. It's a measure of how much money it is. We know that our transport systems both need to be changed and need to be technologically developed. It doesn't help with just one thing. It doesn't help with just a technological development. In the same way, it does not help just to reset. Both things are needed. In order to achieve technological development, we need to stimulate it. But we also need to tax what is bad in order, for example, to drive forward new solutions and patterns. The Left Party has therefore listened to the business community, which has long criticised how the charging of transport modes such as rail and shipping is, in many cases, disadvantageing the efficient use of existing capacity and the transfer of goods by road to rail, maritime and inland waterways. We therefore want to see increased investment on the railways and increased investment in transport solutions where freight units can be reloaded between different modes of transport in different parts of the entire chain of transport, in order to achieve energy efficient transport with low greenhouse gas emissions. Fees and other instruments need to be changed in order to achieve this objective. This should be in line with the ambitions of a green government. I am therefore surprised that the committee rejects the Left Party's proposal to review the charging and tax structure in order to achieve energy-efficient transport and an increase in the proportion of environmentally friendly transport. It should be a motion and a motion that you could approve. Of course, I am in favour of the Left Party's Amendment No 8 and, in this way, give wise environmentalists and social democrats in this House the opportunity to support the proposal for a revision next Wednesday. Mr President, I would like to Another important element to be implemented with a sharp proposal is a working road wear tax. Heavy traffic, whether Swedish or foreign, must bear more of its costs to the national economy. The charges, estimated in various estimates at 4 billion, also allow for new investments in infrastructure. This increases the possibility of steering towards environmentally friendly vehicles. A road wear tax is thus an important piece of the puzzle that helps to transfer long-distance transport to both trains and shipping. Furthermore, a road user tax increases the possibility of controlling heavy road transport. In this way illegal traffic, which is widespread in Sweden, can be accessed. It is clear that there are problems where rail or shipping cannot be used. Therefore, as the Left Party does, one can certainly imagine a differentiation of road wear tax. Then we could take into account transport where there are no other alternatives. It should be an excellent solution to the problems of road wear tax that have been pointed out from the bourgeois side. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates say no to all climate-smart taxes. The Left Party says yes to both the road wear tax and the airline tax. I think we all recognize the main shakes when we look at prices for travel from Gothenburg to Stockholm and from Malmö to Stockholm and realize that the flight is much cheaper. It's not about 10s. It's about dog rings. It's much cheaper to go on a plane. The flight's increasing all the time. Today, aviation is an environmental villain who does not account for its climate impact or its social costs. We all know that flights must be reduced, and rail traffic must increase. To make this possible, the competitiveness of sustainable modes of transport must be strengthened. Competitiveness is a word that the Moderates, above all, like. I like it, too. However, we must ensure that the competitiveness of sustainable modes of transport is increased and thus reduced for aviation. One possibility that the Left Party has pointed out and presented is that you should take the 1.8 billion that a flight tax could give and invest them on the trains. With those resources, we can ensure that night trains are upgraded and not shut down, as they are now. With those resources, we can make sure to increase the comfort and service of the train. With those resources, we can ensure that ticket prices are reduced. The Left Party's proposal gives clear signals that what burdens the environment and the climate, i.e. aviation, will bear its costs. At the same time, we make it cheaper to travel sustainably. It is even almost a market solution. You Moderates should like that. Let me conclude by saying a few words about the parking tax, which Karin Smith has done well to exercise. There are facts in that exercise that were surprising to me and that are well worth considering, especially if we want to turn our cities into sustainable cities with reduced motorism. We know you want to. We need to do this if we are to meet the commitments that we have under the Paris Declaration, which we have all hailed. There are three facts that I think speak for what Karin Svensson Smith is arguing for us to do – she argues for us to do a review and an investigation. The first is: emissions from road traffic are increasing again, after having fallen over eight years. After eight years of reducing emissions from road traffic, thanks to technological developments, they are now increasing again. This means that technological developments will no longer be able to compensate for the large increase in road traffic. The second is: According to one study, 110 000 people in Stockholm County could exchange today's car commuting for bicycle commuting, and they would still not get a longer journey time than a maximum of 30 minutes. It's revolutionary. With the right incentives, but also by making it more difficult to use the car, you could get 110 000 Stockholmers to cycle instead, and they would not have an extended journey time. They could get to work in a maximum of 30 minutes. Not many Stockholmers can do it, after all. The third is: An average car is parked – hear and behold – 23 of the 24 hours a day. Each parking lot is 25 to 30 square meters. I moved to Lund and lived at a student nation for six months. At that time, I lived in a dormitory that was 15 to 20 square meters. But let's get to grips here; we say it's 25 to 30 square meters. So there are a hell of a lot of dorm rooms that are occupied by unnecessary parking spaces. We could use a treasure to steer in the right direction. It's proven to work in a lot of places. This should be investigated in Sweden.
i-162acf85688019d8-670	Mr President, I would like to I asked for a line most of all because you, Daniel Sestrajcic, are such a committed person. I like that, and this is the difference between you and me. When I'm committed, you tell me that I'm your opponent, which in many ways I am, too. But as a liberal conservative, I'm actually prepared to die so that you can express your views. It's not certain that you would do the same for me, given the history of the Left Party. I am surprised, Daniel Sestrajcic, that you show such contempt and resentment towards municipalities as Täby, Danderyd and Lidingö, as you mentioned in your speech. It is precisely these municipalities that are most supportive of Malmö when you think about the tax equalisation system. They send SEK 4 – 5 billion to Malmö annually. You're showing a grudge against the most compassionate residents, and I think that's the bottom line. We have to have taxes. We shall have a common welfare, because in my Sweden we shall all be able to become exactly what they want. Tax is then required to offset certain differences, for example in terms of educational opportunities. It is not certain that the smartest children are in the wealthiest families. It is clear that we need to use our common means so that everyone can become what they want – this is very important. In the alliance years, tax revenues increased by 26 per cent, even though taxes were reduced. This correlation is very interesting. Daniel Sestrajcic may remember the Laffer curve, which is about how tax revenue increases and decreases, from study time in Lund. If you take 0 % of tax, the state can't get anything, and if you take 100 % of tax, you can't get anything either. So it is important to find a good balance.
i-162acf85688019d8-675	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your contribution, Erik! Thank you for respecting me! I also respect you, and as a socialist, I am prepared to die for your right to think exactly what you want. Exactly what you want you can think, and I will defend that right as long as I live. But then, Erik, we are very different. You talk about wanting a general welfare society, but your policy does not show that you want a general welfare society. The policy pursued during the years of bourgeois government has meant that we have increased gaps and inequalities, and that people have had less chance instead of greater. You think I despise people in Danderyd and Täby. I absolutely do not – there are many beautiful, wonderful, wonderful people living in both Täby and Lidingö. But I despise the policies that are being pursued, which make them the great winners of this society and the great winners of this tax policy. It is these people who draw the prize ticket. They are the ones who make use of the interest rebates. They're the ones who use the RUT deductions. They are the ones who reap the fruits, while at the same time we have a Sweden that actually does not work at all for everyone and which does not at all give everyone the rights that they should have for housing, for work, for a good education or for co-workers. This is why we need this money. We need the money to finance the general welfare, which you say you like. At the same time, you belong to a party that is constantly – constantly – cutting it down. I want to ask you, how low do you think the treasure could be? Where's your pain limit? How much are you going to cut off from the welfare community?
i-162acf85688019d8-681	Mr President, I would like to The question you should always ask yourself is: Who pays all these taxes? It's not like a gift from above. It's not like when the government raises taxes, the money comes in, it doesn't work like that. A tax should be at a reasonable level, so that it pays to work and so that the number of hours worked increases. Education should also pay off. We agree that everyone in Sweden should have the same chance from the beginning, and then it must pay off to want something in this country. If you overtax people, they work less, and then less revenue comes to the government. As far as the high marginal taxes are concerned, we can see that people choose to do something else. When many people are required in healthcare, for example, they intend to make sure that during this reign they go from 1 million to 1 1⁄2 million employees who pay government taxes. Does Daniel Sestrajcic think that these people will work more hours if more than half of what they earn goes to the state? It's not morally right, Daniel. It's all wrong. We can't have a tax system that makes sure it doesn't pay to go to work – then we're in the wrong place. This country is built on work. It's built on jobs, jobs, jobs and nothing else, and we're gonna keep going. Otherwise, we're really dangerous out there. It is not surprising, in itself, that I stand here and say this, and it is no wonder that you stand there and say what you say, but I can assure you that the opposite was shown during the time of the Alliance. Taxes were reduced on jobs, and more money was raised to the treasury. It is this – the result – that counts, not placard politics or empty rhetoric.
i-162acf85688019d8-688	Mr President, I would like to What you think is stealing, I think it's about redistributing resources and creating a civil society. What you think is stealing goes to create a community and a society that works for everyone. I think that what is morally wrong is to have the sick, the unemployed and pensioners pay more tax. That is what your policy led to. You increased a tax gap between the sick, the unemployed and pensioners on the one hand and the people who had a job on the other. Can you, Erik Andersson, tell me why you should kick the sick and let them pay more tax so that you can carry out tax cuts for those who are already well off? This is the immoral. Taxes should be at a reasonable level; it is quite clear. Today, for many, they are not at a reasonable level. The adjustments that we make are extremely marginal and will not lead to someone stopping work or to someone not training to be a nurse. Actually, I know a lot of nurses. They never complain that their tax might be increased by a few tens, and it is about a very small number of nurses receiving the higher tax. On the other hand, they say that it is too stressful, that they have too few workmates, and that is too much to do. That is the problem. In Skåne, which has one of the absolute lowest regional taxes, there is a crisis in health care. This is due to the tax cuts; it is due to too little resources. The number of hours worked must increase, yes, but the question is how. It is possible to increase the number of hours worked in many ways. People who do not have a job can get into work with the tax money we receive, which allows you to hire more people in the public sector. Under-taxation leads to fewer employees in welfare. We must correct that.
i-162acf85688019d8-696	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 11 on congestion tax. There is a congestion tax in Stockholm and Gothenburg. The aim – as the Left Party has also understood – is to be squeezed less. If we increase the tax on congestion, we get less congestion – that's the theory, and that's what happens in practice. That is precisely how we shape our tax system in several areas when it comes to things that we want to see more or less of. We have a high tax on alcohol to make you drink less. We have a high tax on various forms of emissions – for example, CO2 emissions – so that we can get less of this. The Left Party has missed something in this. They have found that having high taxes on things can eliminate certain harmful effects. But what does the Left Party think happens if you raise taxes on labour, if you make it more expensive and have higher taxes on working? Are we working more or less? Does it have no impact at all? Does what has an impact on congestion, the environment and alcohol have no impact on jobs? Yes, of course. That's why we want to keep these taxes down so that people can work, so that we have a society where it pays very well to make an effort, to work hard. I am sorry, Daniel Sestrajcic, but it is not Erik Andersson and the Moderates who are the opponents of the tax policy. If you look at the budgets, you'll see the biggest tax cuts in the Liberals' budget, a position I'd be happy to take. Well, back to this congestion tax. It is not so much about the congestion tax in itself, but about what you can use the money for that comes in there. It was introduced here in Stockholm, and the money has been used for infrastructure, roads. Since it is the crowding of cars that you want to remove, you use the money to improve the infrastructure, so that you also in this way reduce congestion and make it easier to use the car – something that we in the Liberals naturally support. There are also other ways to get around in society, not least by bike. It is far from everyone who can do it, but some can at least cycle to work and home again some days a week. It is naturally environmentally friendly and climate-smart. It also leads to a reduction in congestion plus positive health effects, which I have heard is that you can get if you move around. It's not something I've tested myself, but in theory, it's obviously supposed to be. The crowd money can be used to build roads – all right and good of course – but with our proposal we want to be able to use money from congestion taxes to also invest in bicycle infrastructure, i.e. bicycle roads. Mr President, I would like to Low me also respond to the Swedish democrats on this with air taxes. There is a request for airline tax at global or European level. It should not be a form of EU tax. We do not want the EU to have any tax rights. In that case, it may be an international agreement, preferably global. There is also the crucial point here that it is not aircraft, lorries or cars that are to be taxed, because it is not they who are the problem but what they are releasing. After all, emissions from aviation fuel are the problem. Basically, it's good that we travel a lot. The proposal for a flight tax here in Sweden has very little environmental impact, so what is the point of even introducing one? Should you have some form of air tax, it should be at global level, then directed precisely towards the fuel. It is currently being pumped in quite a lot of money and researched on electric planes. Why should these be taxed? There's no logic at all in that.
i-162acf85688019d8-707	Mr President, I would like to Erik says to say that he is even better at lowering taxes than you, Mathias Sundin, but perhaps you can take it up with each other. I'd like to talk about two things. It is clear that taxation on labour affects. But a balance is needed, because if we remove all taxes on labour, it will not be a society that works, nor will it create as many new jobs as you would like it to. We have not reached that balance. It is a mythology right now that the change in the layer line would affect people in the direction that they would not want to work. It is a mythology that you are trying to establish as a reality but which is not consistent with reality. I'd like to talk about the plane tax, too. After all, we agree that we need to tax what damages and destroys. I think I have seen a change in Liberal tax policy towards more green taxes, which is a positive thing. You say that we should instead have a global aviation tax, but it is so far a dream that is very far away. I mean that we need to find ways to allow flights to bear their costs, and that is not waiting for a global tax. When fuel cannot be taxed and we cannot have a global tax, this is the way forward. If you also take the Left Party's proposals and the 1.8 billion to make it cheaper and better to travel on the railways, then you achieve a double effect. Why do you think that's wrong?
i-162acf85688019d8-712	Mr President, I would like to We agree that a balance is needed. The question is where this balance lies in terms of taxation on labour. Today we have the world's highest taxes on labour! And you're saying the balance isn't achieved. When is this balance achieved? The Swedish tax cannot be more than the highest. How much is it supposed to be? Is the limit at 100 percent your 105 percent? When do we achieve this balance? I think there is, as Erik Andersson mentioned here earlier, a deep immorality when the state takes over 50% of one's income. It should be lower than that. But there goes my upper limit, because then you suddenly work above all for the state and less for yourself. It's not supposed to be like that. Even if the balance is just below it, it should at least be such that you work most for yourself. You want to give the midwives increased taxes. Are they going to spend the weekends and evenings going into further education and then not being able to keep even half of the salary increase that it can lead to? I think that's completely wrong. And this is not a mythology. What is behind this is called science and research. We Liberals are very much in favour of green tax exchange. It is the final part that is crucial for us to raise taxes on what you want away and lower taxes on what you want left, such as jobs.
i-162acf85688019d8-716	Mr President, I would like to There is some sort of bourgeois voodooseans here when you talk about that it would be immoral in some way to levy taxes. I recommend reading by Richard Murphy, The Joy of Tax. It is a really good scientist who talks about how taxes could be designed and what they can lead to. And he talks a lot about the importance of taxing in order to create equal societies. The immoral thing is that we live in a society with increased income inequality, increased inequality and impaired welfare. That's what happens to midwives. Mathias Sundin's party colleagues in Skåne have for many years put sticks in the wheels for raising wages for midwives and had as their goal the lowest tax in Sweden and the region. In fact, I do not see midwives who think it is the tax that is problematic, but the problem is that they have too few coworkers, too stressful a work situation and that the tax is too low. They would like more taxes to be collected so that more midwives could be hired. It's connected. You talk very often about the amazingly high tax we have in Sweden. I recommend another literature, the Hunting of the Lost Tax by Erik Sandberg, which clearly shows that it is not in fact that we have such terribly high taxes in Sweden compared to the rest of the world. For example, we have no wealth tax, no inheritance and gift tax and no property tax, which exists in most other countries. If you think it is so terrible with all the high taxes, I want to say that you had eight years. You destroyed a lot, but I don't understand why you didn't go all the way. Or I think I understand that, because it would mean such a terrible society to live in that even you wouldn't stand it.
i-162acf85688019d8-721	Mr President, I would like to What happened in the terrible society that, according to the Left Party, we almost reached? Well, 300,000 people got jobs, we got higher tax revenues and we spent more money on welfare. It's a shame we didn't make it all the way. We would have liked to have had four more years to achieve this terrible society, but we will soon make another attempt. The Left Party talks a lot about divisions in society. It's part of your basic ideology. There are many serious points to be taken seriously about social divides. What I think is the most serious gap is whether, from birth onwards, there are major differences and you cannot get out of the situation you are in, so there is no way to achieve anything else because you are stuck where you are. As a liberal, I think it is dangerous if the state takes in most of the money and decides how people should live their lives. Then they don't see the possibility of moving. As regards the economic income gap in Sweden, all groups got better during the alliance years. Some groups got it even better than others, but all groups got it better. This disturbs the Left Party so much. You can't do it. You say the gaps are increasing, but everyone's been better off. You'd be happy, Daniel Sestrajcic, if the gaps had narrowed and everyone had gotten worse. This is the difference between liberalism and socialism.
i-39WxEGBCtSsrweRxijUCSv	Mr President, I would like to I support the Alliance's reservation, No 3, and the Christian Democrats' reservation, No 9. Can excise duties be a good thing for society, or are all taxes evil? Of course, some excise duties are beneficial if they govern from what we do not want in society and in the same amount reduce taxes on what we want in society. The Christian Democrats have pushed the issue of introducing a so-called "malus" system where environmentally friendly vehicles with relatively low carbon dioxide emissions receive a bonus at the time of purchase while vehicles with high carbon dioxide emissions receive higher taxes. It is a way of using taxes as a means of governing where the individual citizen can make an active choice between something that is good and something that is bad. Either you choose the tax-cost option, which in this case is good for the environment, or the fiscally expensive option. It is the citizen who is going to make this choice, and with excise duties one can be a little bit controlling. The system should be designed in such a way that the net impact on the state is positive, as in the 2030 Secretariat's proposal. Here the net profit is estimated at around 700 million per year. Of course, other environmental measures can be taken for this money. This will make the best use of the money received through this system for the environment. Like the 2030 Secretariat, we propose that bonuses be paid directly upon purchase while Malus is distributed over four years. In the context of the introduction of the Malus bonus, the super-environmental car premium should be abolished. Are there proposals that are not so good? Yes, the road wear charge is not good. There's no alternative. If you live in sparsely populated areas, you can't choose any other means of transport, and then it'll be an extra tax. Another suggestion that has been raised here is the airline tax. Nor is it good when there are no alternatives. If you can only choose between flight and flight, you have to pay the tax that the government thinks you should pay. Excise duties are good in cases where citizens can choose. That Sweden needs to be better at encouraging and facilitating entrepreneurship I have been into before today. Entrepreneurs often face unnecessary barriers and high administrative costs to drive their business forward. We in the Alliance have spoken on many occasions about the fact that we want to improve the conditions for companies also in terms of administrative charges. We believe that changes to the rules should analyse the impact on companies. This is something we in the Swedish Parliament are pretty bad at. The energy tax proposals do not include a thorough description of the impact of taxation on a business perspective. The impact assessments shall show both negative and positive effects. A proposal can, of course, be positive for companies, and then we should be clear about it. Impact assessments have an intrinsic value because we then know what decisions we are making. That is why we need to be better at doing such things.
i-162acf85688019d8-739	Mr President, I would like to Last Saturday my son turned seven. I think that this debate is really about him and his generation and subsequent generations. But let's start with his great-grandmother, my grandmother. She grew up in a workers' home in a Sweden that was about to break with poverty. In Hyllie outside Malmö, both her parents had to work full time, one at the cement factory, the other with cleaning and washing for the fine wives, as my grandmother says. At the same time, they ran a small farm for subsistence so that they could feed their nine children. They fought hard for the next generation of workers to be better off than they had been, and they were. Grandma worked in a furniture factory and cracked extra with cleaning staircases, and Grandpa ran his own blacksmith. They also worked hard to build a society for us and a better life for their children, and so it became. My mother was the first in my family to get through an academic education. She and Dad were building on it. They tore and thought we'd be better off than they had. Now we have reached a breakpoint, a point where my generation, those who today become parents, no longer believe that their children will be better off than they have been. But I'm sure they think wrong. I think the world can and will be better. But then we have to have a society that stays together. We must build on what the previous generations have created for us, and we must ensure that everyone, not just some, can live a better life. This is where tax policy comes in. What I'm trying to say is that for generations we Social Democrats have been fighting to build a society that holds together and to create a redistribution of resources that can provide equal opportunities for all. It is about a general welfare system and a social system with a Swedish model. It has been very successful and has taken Sweden from extreme poverty to decent prosperity in just a few generations. This building of society with equality and community we are still fighting for. That is why we are developing the Swedish model. Mr President, I would like to Public revenue must be linked to public expenditure, and I have seen what our policy can create. Like I said, my son turned seven this weekend. Of course he goes to school at home in Älvsbyn. The school efforts we have made in government really make a difference to the opportunities children have in school. I work as principal myself when I am not a Member of Parliament. Therefore, I can testify to how it will work out in improved conditions when we have more staff at primary and secondary school, when we can arrange qualitative training for the staff and when we can give a proper addition to the teaching of newly arrived children, to take a few examples. These efforts are not possible without revenue. My son filled seven this weekend. He is an allergy to mites, and with it comes some asthmatic problems that he has to take medication for regularly. The medicine is collected without any cost. I intend to reserve myself in advance against the objections that I should be able to afford to collect and pay for the medicine with my porky fee. It is the case that in the Swedish model welfare is general, and then everyone must be covered. This is what creates the Community and cohesion; it is not possible without revenue. My son turned seven this weekend, and I am convinced that we are about to build a better life for him and his generation. But then we need a policy that evens out the gaps between social classes but also between generations. This requires a policy that holds the country together and gives people the same freedom and security no matter where they are, where they come from or who they are. Mr President, I would like to It is when we build a better life for our generation but also for the growing and future generations that excise duties come in. Excise duties exist to support people – consumers and producers – in making climate-smart and healthy choices. It is about everything from choosing the mode of transport to opting out harmful gadgets such as alcohol and tobacco. If we are to close the tangible health gaps that we have addressed within a generation, we need to use a wide range of tools, such as resource management, regulation and information, but also excise duties. We have set the target of zero net emissions at 2045. If we really want to achieve that goal, we must now, today, make active choices and pursue an active policy for development to go that way. It is a question of supporting the shift in expenditure through, for example, climate change and solar subsidies, but it is also a question of climate-governing excise duties. Therefore, the government is now preparing several climate-governing taxes. One example is bonus – the Malus system, which is intended to support consumers in making climate-smart decisions when buying new cars. Those who choose a climate-smart new car receive a well-acquired bonus while those who choose a climate-smart new car pay extra tax, malus. This will increase incentives for individual car buyers to choose climate-smart cars but also drive innovation for more energy-efficient and climate-friendly cars. At the same time, a proposal is being prepared to strengthen the CO2-based component of vehicle tax and thus, more generally, to increase the climate governance component of vehicle tax. To give some further examples, the government is also working to secure the regulatory effects on taxes on, among other things, natural gravel, waste and chemicals. In addition, we want power and district heating plants powered by fossil fuels to pay more in carbon dioxide taxes, and we think that aviation should better bear its climate impact. Mr President, I would like to From the right-hand side of the table, harmful tax proposals are voiced, while the proposals to curb the government's climate ambitions do not, for that matter, present any ambitions of its own in this area. Instead, they compete over who can lower the tax the most. To continue to push for the transition to fossil freedom is absolutely necessary if my son and his future children and grandchildren are to grow up in a world that has the polaris left. I intend to continue to believe that the next generation can be better off, but then we need to develop the Swedish model. A policy with visions of a society that holds together and is sustainable requires a courageous fiscal policy. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-162acf85688019d8-759	Mr President, I would like to As you know, Sweden has one of the highest tax burdens in the world – the highest tax on labour. We have extremely high marginal taxes, and that means that about 40% of all police officers, midwives and some specially trained nurses pay government taxes. That is not reasonable, we believe. When it comes to the debate on excise duties, Sweden is not North Korea, but we are a country that has neighbours and is dependent on the outside world. It is clear that we need to see the optimum level of taxation. Otherwise, as we have seen, it will be with alcohol and tobacco, that the government will include increased revenues, although they will not be received because imports are increasing, for example. That is a concern that needs to be looked at, I think. Bonus – the Malus system is in itself too, as it is clear that a change should be made. It's kind of like the Alliance's environmental car premium, that whoever buys a new low-emission car gets a bonus – great – while whoever has a high-emission car has to pay extra for it. It's okay. The problem with the proposal as it is designed is that you have overestimated about half a billion or 600 million dollars. You take out more. The bonus system does not go smoothly, but you choose to overestimate Swedish motorists.
i-162acf85688019d8-763	Mr President, I would like to There are a few parts to this. I never really understood any question, so I take the liberty of talking a little bit about the marginal tax, as I understood. It does not really belong here because it is not an excise duty per se. But since Erik Andersson raised it, I think it is important to point out that we are not raising any marginal tax, not for anyone. Anyone who has the same salary will pay the same tax – out. It was perhaps overtaxation in bonuses – the Malus system that Erik Andersson wanted answers about. It is rather difficult to assess how well the system will break through. If that goes well and we achieve the governing effects that we want, the system will not involve any over-taxation at all.
i-162acf85688019d8-765	Mr President, I would like to I heard the word freedom. That is good; that is what we stand for. What I meant by Sweden being one of the world's most highly taxed countries is to look at the overall tax burden. Then excise duties will also come in, because they still account for 3.3%. The question was in itself bonus – the Malus system. It has chosen to introduce a system that is basically good – a conversion of the Swedish vehicle fleet. At the same time, however, the Social Democrats and the government choose to turn the tax crane extra hard so that they charge more money than they need to do in a tax exchange. You take out half a billion more than you have to. That is what I mean: you overestimate in this part, and we do not think that is a good thing. After all, the very purpose of a tax exchange is to ensure a level playing field, not to overtax motorists. Then it's all wrong.
i-162acf85688019d8-768	Mr President, I would like to It must be a major educational problem for Erik Andersson that we raise taxes on certain things. Erik Andersson shouts that the tax ratio is too high while we see fairly clear signs that the Swedish economy is well. We have high growth, falling unemployment and the EU's highest employment. How is the tax ratio too high? I am well aware that the question is rhetorical. The answer about bonus – the Malus system I have already delivered, that is: We do not overtax, but we imagine that the system should be circular. It's not a fiscal treasure. We do not want tax revenue from it, but our idea is that it should go even, just as Erik Andersson says.
i-162acf85688019d8-771	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by thanking you, Linus Sköld, for your post that was both very well worded and good. On the issue of excise duty, the Left Party and the government are in many ways in agreement. It was also nice to hear the story that you carry with you and that has made you a social democrat, I suspect. Because you talked about it a lot. I know a lot of it. But it made me a left-wing party instead. I think there's a lot of points in what you're saying. My problem when you describe it all is that you just like many radical Social Democrats stay in history. There is in any way no project forward in fiscal policy to return to an equal and redistributive tax policy that removes bourgeois tax policy, with which we have lived for so many years and which has increased inequality and inequalities. You've heard my posts here, so you know pretty much what I'm thinking. I think that your constituents basically do not want reduced corporate tax, interest rebates or RUT deductions. I looked into this. Älvsbyn is in place 235 of all municipalities when it comes to how much you use the RUT deduction. The RUT deduction per inhabitant is SEK 120. But in Danderyd it is SEK 1,961, in Lidingö SEK 1,285 and in Lomma, the municipality next to Malmö, SEK 1,147. The fairy village doesn't like RUT deductions, I'd say. But my question is about excise duties. Why are you opposed to the revision of the charging and tax structure proposed by the Left Party in order to drive forward efforts to increase the proportion of environmentally friendly goods transport and energy efficiency?
i-162acf85688019d8-776	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your praise. I appreciate that. I can at the same time pass back that ball and say that you are a phenomenal speaker, Daniel Sestrajcic. We are not reluctant about progressive and distributional proposals when it comes to fiscal policy. But when it comes to people's wallets and people's private finances, we must be careful and responsible. We cannot become idealists and dogmatics. There's a risk that you'll get rid of things. We must therefore take it carefully and proceed with caution. That is my answer to that question. The second question I've dribbled away.
i-162acf85688019d8-779	Mr President, I would like to People's wallets actually benefit from people having higher wages and jobs in, for example, the public sector. Money will be taken from this for a reduction in corporate tax. When it comes to people's wallets, it is about the people's wallets. It is clear that if you live in Danderyd, where you have an average of SEK 1 961 per inhabitant in RUT deduction, you want to retain this RUT deduction. But my question is then why the parents of the children of your school should have to pay for their RUT deduction or for their interest deduction. The point of the tax system is that it should also be redistributive. My question on excise duties was about the fact that the Left Party has a very modest proposal that we should review the charging and tax structure in order to achieve energy efficient transport and increase environmentally friendly freight transport. This is a requirement that comes from the business community. Hear and marvel! It is a demand that the business community is pushing us to do something about this. Today, rail and maritime freight transport is at a disadvantage. We want to find a structure that favours these transports and moves transport from road to maritime and rail, which we certainly agree on is much more climate-smart. Could you not reach out to at least a small review, that is to say that you agree to the Left Party's reservation 8 to which we have called for approval?
i-162acf85688019d8-783	Mr President, I would like to We invest Sweden strongly, and we do so together with the Left Party to quite a large extent. I am sure that Daniel Sestrajc knows very well that, for example, we will ensure that there will be more teachers, that there will be 10 extra billion to the welfare, that there may be more nurses and better staffing in the care of the elderly, and that there may be more police officers. We'll do this together. That's why you might be able to avoid these swinges from the left. With regard to the question of the Left Party's reservation on a review of the charging and tax structure in order to achieve climate-friendly transport, I can say that we are working on climate-governing taxes. We think climate-smart transport is important, and we invest a record amount of money. Since we have made a deal on the budget, Daniel Sestrajc knows that we are spending a record amount of money on infrastructure, not least on railway maintenance. This, together with climate-governing taxes, is climate-friendly policy for real. We're switching to climate-efficient transport.
i-162acf85688019d8-785	Mr President, I would like to Green taxes, environmental taxes and green tax exchange will be extremely important tools for us to be able to make the environmental and climate transition in Sweden that we so badly need. The Red-Green Government has introduced a number of taxes, such as a chemical tax which the previous bourgeois government set up an investigation into and which the Center Party thought would be even higher. But at least we have come forward with it in broad parliamentary agreement. We have made a new indexation of the CO2 tax. Indexing is a very good way of creating foresight, so that people and producers of renewable fuels know what will apply in the future and get time to make a transition and get started with the production of renewable fuels. We have introduced taxes on natural gravel, and we have reduced the tax on solar energy on larger plants. We will now also come forward with proposals for a bonus – the Malus system to make a proper transition within the fleet. We have also made agreements on other issues. In the Environmental Objectives Committee and the Rural Committee, almost all parties agreed to review the travel allowances. When the Moderates Erik Andersson spoke earlier, I think he said no ten times. He said no to tax on taxes needed to enable us to make this transition. Fortunately, not all alliance parties have been as negative as the Moderates, but they have actually had their own ideas in their draft budgets earlier in their term of office. Mr President, I would like to Environmental taxes are usually disliked at first by many, but gradually they are accepted and later also often liked. The congestion tax in Stockholm is perhaps the best example that at least I have. In the election campaign in 2006, Jan Björklund, who was not yet the Chairman of the People's Party at the time, was working all he could against the introduction of the congestion tax. Now, a few years later, I don't think anyone in the Liberals would. Unfortunately, this money is not going to expand public transport in the way that would be needed. What the Reinfeldt government did when it won the 2006 election was to redistribute the money to motorway construction. All you have to do is regret it. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-162acf85688019d8-796	Mr President, I would like to The report, and hence this debate, deals with issues relating to the efficiency and legitimacy of the tax system and how we minimise the administration of taxes. The issue of personal liability, the so-called representative responsibility, is highlighted in several motions from both the Center Party and the other alliance parties. The current framework allows board members and other representatives of limited liability companies to be personally liable if a company fails, even if no formal errors have been made. Different interpretations of the rules are applied by authorities, which means that the rules are perceived as arbitrary. This creates problems in Swedish business. Other Nordic countries lack the corresponding regulatory framework, and the regulatory framework has been met with a lot of criticism. Furthermore, knowledge of the rules has proved to be very lacking. As late as spring 2015, the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement to the government to review the regulations on personal liability. Although two years have passed, the government has not returned any concrete proposals. According to the government, the matter is being prepared, and this has been done for a long time. It is of great importance that the government now urgently returns to the Riksdag with proposals for changes. Mr President, I would like to Most people want to do the right thing. Different rules on the market should be in place to create fair and equal conditions for different actors. Fair rules exist to make business easier, not to make things more difficult. It remains clear that the regulatory framework for cash registers constitutes an obstacle for businesses. The requirement for cash registers imposes uniform requirements on all companies. This may seem fair, but the conditions for companies to use cash registers vary. It must be possible to carry out sales activities even for those who do not have access to either electricity or mobile coverage. From a societal perspective, it is important that control activities are not allowed to take over and control which economic activities may exist. In view of this, it is important that the Government urgently submits proposals for clarification of the rules regarding the requirement for cash registers. Mr President, I would like to An important principle of our tax system is that it should be transparent. It should be clear what you pay taxes on and for and where the money goes. In recent years, employers' contributions have again increased in Sweden. No matter how high we have employers' contributions, it is important that employees know how much is paid in employer's contributions. It is also important that fraud with unpaid employers' contributions can be reduced. Employers' contributions represent a large proportion of the state budget and the entire public commitment. Visibility of the employer's contribution thus also plays a democratic role. However, it is of great importance that reporting can be carried out as efficiently as possible through a simple and educational e-service. Such a system must be in place when introducing monthly reporting; otherwise the administrative burden risks being very large and costly for small businesses. Mr President, I would like to A change of attitude towards entrepreneurship is needed. Too often entrepreneurs get caught up in different interpretations of laws and regulations. Evidence requirements in the tax process need to be increased. The work of the Tax Agency must be characterised by even greater legal certainty and predictability. The Tax Agency's procedures must be reviewed, and the Center Party demands in a motion that the government set up an investigation to compile a White Paper that can form the basis for the continued work of a world-class tax office. I agree with the reservations of the Alliance and the Center Party, but I call for the winning approval of time only for the Center's reservation No 6 and the Alliance's reservation No 13.
i-162acf85688019d8-805	Mr President, I would like to This comprehensive motion for a resolution contains four alliance reservations and, of course, we support them, as well as the M reservations that exist. However, for time-winning, I only ask for alliance reservation No 13 on personal liability and reservation No 5 from the Moderates on the sharing economy. Mr President, I would like to The basis for all our common welfare is based on work. It is by people working, running companies and paying taxes that we create the conditions for a social responsibility where we both share the common and can support individuals when life takes an unexpected turn. Taxes and charges play an important role in financing our common welfare functions and should therefore be designed to ensure tax revenues over time – but without creating unnecessary obstacles, costs and threshold effects for those who want to work and run businesses. It is important that the tax system is transparent and legitimate, and as the Tax Agency's motto says: Today there are taxes and rules which, counterproductively, hamper growth and employment without contributing to increased tax revenues. The driving force for work must never be hampered by high taxes. This applies, for example, to supply aid, which in its design and application has weak incentives for work and not infrequently leads to marginal effects of over 100%. That is completely unreasonable. In line with new digital innovations, the collaborative economy is emerging. The desire to share your home or car, your tools or your time is growing rapidly. The sharing economy is changing and challenging our traditional notions of the functioning of the economy, the relationship between employers and employees and the design of future tax systems. As the collaborative economy grows, regulatory frameworks need to be adapted to maintain the legitimacy of the tax system and prevent tax evasion. The survey SOU 2017:26 Sharing economy on users' terms came on 3 April, i.e. this week. It shows that the investigation has not studied more closely the rules and effects of tax law. But it's necessary. The study shows that it should be noted, however, that tax rules may have a significant impact on the users of collaborative economic platforms. It is, however, left aside. Madam President, I would like Sharing must not be an excuse for tax evasion. We Moderates believe that it is therefore necessary to review the possibility for the Tax Agency and other relevant authorities to simplify the administration of buyers and sellers in the sharing economy through IT support and administrative support, and to ensure that tax payments are made correctly. Madam President, I would like In spring 2014, the Swedish Parliament adopted the Alliance Government's proposal to strengthen the protection of threatened and persecuted persons. The bill made changes to the Population Accounts Act and the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, which means that the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to request assistance from, for example, the Social Welfare Board in matters of retention and classification is highlighted in the legislative text and that the confidentiality of personal data in matters of retention is strengthened. In the bill, the government also presented its view on the direction of continued efforts to create stronger protection for the personal data of victims of violence. Several problems and shortcomings need to be addressed. The threat and risk assessment carried out today needs to be developed, and the use of different protection measures needs to be coordinated. The rules also need to be made more consistent from a protection perspective. The government also considered that there was reason to consider how these shortcomings should be addressed in order to provide better protection for threatened and persecuted persons and that the objective should be to create coherent and consistent regulation in this area. The Government announced its intention to carry out a thorough review of these issues, including issues related to the use of fictitious personal data and issues related to protected categories of persons. The issue of protected personal data is an important part of the work to strengthen the protection of persons exposed to threats or persecution. There are today a lot of different types of rules and opportunities aimed at protecting someone's identity or residence address. The Alliance government also took several initiatives to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons. On 1 July 2014, several legislative amendments were introduced on closer cooperation between authorities in the area of detention and enhanced confidentiality in certain cases. But there's still a lot to do. The Alliance believes that fictitious personal data should be allowed to a greater extent than at present. This means that a person receives new identity information, such as a new name and a new personal identity number. Therefore, the Alliance Government also decided to allow a special investigator to undertake a comprehensive review of the legislation and to propose measures to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons in terms of both legislation and administrative practices. The study presented its report in 2015. We had expected the current government to proceed as soon as possible with the reform efforts to protect the threatened people who were initiated by the alliance government. But the question is ignored by the government parties. Madam President, I would like The government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party, supported by the Left Party, do not think this issue is important. You reject vulnerable people's need for protection in one of the most vulnerable situations you can imagine. S, MP and V reject the Alliance's proposal on the need to be able to change identity more easily in the context of violence in close relations and also the proposal for the government to come back with a proposal for measures to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons. You say often and gladly that you protect the weak in society. But the talk of solidarity is far removed when you reject a proposal that benefits the very groups you say you are defending. It is hoped that the following three examples will provide a better understanding of the problem. On two occasions an individual in a family applied for support from social services in a municipality in Sweden. On both occasions, letters were sent from this municipality to the address where the family remained under protected identity. That is an example. When the school catalogues were distributed at the end of the autumn semester 2016, a student with a protected identity discovered that his name and picture were in the catalogue. They tried to collect all the over 1,200 copies, but 53 catalogues are still out of the way. The feeling of these people that their identity and addresses have been compromised is terrible. Furthermore, the District Court of Helsingborg revealed a woman's new name to the former husband even though she had protected her identity. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen believe that this was a case of negligence and have criticised the Court of Justice. The Alliance wants to see a change in legislation and developed administrative procedures regarding protected identity and identity change and that this should be announced to the government. I look forward to the declaration by the government parties to the rejection you are calling for today. If it may be suspected in advance that the disclosure of information about a person may cause persecution or other harm, confidentiality marking may be made in the population records. There are a number of measures that can be taken, but the confidentiality marking is not regulated. It is also generally reviewed every year, and then the person concerned should again be subjected to this trauma. Madam President, I would like There is much I could talk about concerning the protection of personal data even from my profession in social services. But my time here in the speaker's chair is running out. I look forward to a majority explanation as to why legislation does not want to protect the groups it claims to protect.
i-EauZvjm3y5GR1SREvAUjqZ	Madam President, I would like The report deals with a number of motions on various tax procedures and issues relating to civil records. It is a broad report which covers a number of important issues. In total, the report deals with 91 motions from the general period of exercise. Of these, the Swedish Democrats account for 6. Tax procedures deal with a variety of tax situations. The area of question that by far the most exercise – about a quarter – has focused on is how the tax system can become more transparent and easy to understand for the individual citizen. It could be a matter of making taxes visible in general. But the overriding issue in this section is to make the accounts of employers' contributions visible to all employees. This can be done, for example, by printing out the amount of social security contributions on pay slips. It would increase the understanding and acceptance of the system by accounting for the amounts paid and what is financed by these fees. Madam President, I would like Another area that is both topical and important is the so-called representative responsibility for, among others, a company's board members. Representative responsibility is very briefly about the conditions for how and when a board member or other representative of a company can become personally liable for the company's debts. Over the years, attention has been paid several times to how representatives who have not actually done anything directly wrong have been severely affected by their responsibilities by the Swedish Tax Agency collecting the company's tax debts from such persons. It can be a matter of very large amounts that mean that the person in question is ruined for life. The situation is not acceptable and needs to be addressed. The Alliance has been exercising on such measures, and we share their view that the issue requires a quick solution. At the same time, a preparation of the issue is under way within the Government Office after an announcement from 2015. We therefore see no direct reason to repeat such an announcement, but we want to give the government the opportunity to put forward a proposal for action against those parts of the representative responsibility that are seen as inappropriate. However, it is high time that the government delivered. We will monitor the matter closely, and if the government does not return to Parliament with a proposal for action within a reasonable time, we will return to the matter. Madam President, I would like The handling of the requirement for cash registers for, for example, marketplaces and merchants continues to cause problems. It is in itself a good thing that measures are taken to minimise the risk of tax evasion and that we are building a regulatory framework that creates competition neutrality. It is crucial for a good nutritional climate. The problem with today's law on cash registers is that in many situations it is not possible to comply with it without breaking other rules, for example on electrical safety. Let me take an example. In the first place, if a retailer complies with the Cash Register Act and carries his cash register with him at his sales stand, the product guarantee or his business insurance shall not be valid in the event of the cashier's breakdown. For example, if it starts to rain, he may be fined for breaching the electrical safety rules. If it gets too hot, the receipt printer may stop working, and he may be fined by the IRS. All of this in turn is due to the fact that today's cash register is not designed to function other than indoors in a business and office environment. Mr President, I would like to We can't have this. It is not a legal system with such legislation. The government must take steps to resolve this knot, and it must be done quickly. I understand that there is a broad majority in Parliament to solve the problems that have arisen with the Cash Register Act, and it should not be so difficult for the government to deal with it. If one is to afford to be a little self-critical, I might think that the alliance parties and SD should have left a joint reservation on this issue and forced the government to act. In substance, there is a basis for such a measure. Unfortunately, however, the Alliance does not want to be involved in this, and unfortunately, the industry will have to suffer for a while longer. The government parties should also have been able to see the problems and contribute to a better order by discussing the issues in a broader perspective. But, Madam President, we are now standing here without having any rapid change because it is more important in government policy who says anything than the content of the message. Madam President, I would like We have a reservation in the report based on two motions focusing on increasing transparency in the tax system. Taxes must be made visible to the person paying the tax, i.e. the individual citizen as a wage earner or consumer. Companies already have the necessary level of transparency as they handle the payments of taxes to the Swedish Tax Agency. The proposed measures aim to increase the transparency and acceptance of the tax system as a whole. When people know when they are paying taxes and how much tax they are paying, the tendency increases to find out what they are getting for their tax money. This is an important issue for building a credible tax system. These are primarily four areas where we believe it is particularly important to increase transparency and show tax collection in different situations, which is highlighted in our motions. Firstly, as I have already mentioned, we believe that there should be a requirement for employers' contributions to be recorded on every pay slip. The accounts should be broken down by category of expenditure. This gives employees a good picture of the total costs paid by the employer to generate the current net salary, how much tax is actually paid and what employers' contributions are used for. Secondly, the Tax Agency should be obliged to account for the social security contributions paid by the employer or the wage-payer to the tax authority on the final tax note. It provides workers with an instrument to verify that taxes and contributions are actually paid, which in turn would provide a reduced incentive to cheat with the payment of withholding tax and employers' contributions to the Tax Agency. Thirdly, we believe that the Swedish Tax Agency on the final tax note should account for the proportion of the taxes paid to different areas of expenditure in the state budget and to the municipality, county council or region with a breakdown by area of use. Finally, we also believe that the VAT amounts for sales to private individuals should be accounted for in the same way as for sales to companies, at least on receipts and invoices. Price labelling of goods can also be shown with advantage so that VAT is shown where it does not entail a significant extra work effort for the company. The most important thing in that part, however, is that it is easy to see the total price including VAT. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-162acf85688019d8-841	Madam President, all of us who remain in the Committee on the debate and discussion and the audience! Hey! Welcome. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 10 on F-tax and 20 on tax evasion. Before I begin my speech, I would like to agree with Per Åsling's argument on the problems of cash registers. He describes the problem well, and it is a major problem. I hope that the government will review the issue and come back with proposals for solutions. It cannot be right and reasonable to suffer these problems. The Left Party is not, Lotta Finstorp, a government party, but we support the government and agree on things. She argued well and had many good examples about the protection of civil registration data. I will readily admit that I do not know the question, but I promise I will go over it and see if we will make a renewed position for the future. In our society, a functioning tax system in which everyone is doing the right thing is absolutely crucial. In order for us to be able to finance the entire welfare that means that we can hire preschool teachers, nurses and cleaning workers, provide assistance, have a dignified asylum reception and invest in research and development, we need a tax system that is simple and easy to understand, and work to put an end to fraud and tax evasion. The Left Party welcomes the international efforts being made to find common ways of combating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. The tax evasion costs our countries hundreds of billions of dollars each year. Both countries in the rich north and countries in the global south are affected, and the only winners are multinational big companies who are doing everything they can to escape their responsibilities towards the states in which they operate. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the capital flight from developing countries in the global south to the industrialised world transferred around USD 6 000 billion in 2001-2010. It's huge sums of money. You can't understand what they mean. However, the sums can be compared with the fact that, during the exact same period, international total aid to the same countries amounted to 677 billion dollars. This means that for each SEK in aid, SEK 10 went back to the West through illegal and unaccounted for capital flows. The Left Party is fighting for a just world where power and resources are fairly distributed. It is not possible to build such a world without taxing the income and profits made in the South. Tax evasion is not just a problem for the poorest countries. It is not just the global South that is affected by tax evasion. The taxes that are being evaded by the Swedish state through tax evasion and aggressive tax planning mean that we cannot afford the strong welfare society we should have. Money that ends up in the richest percentage's pockets is money that should go to the nurse's salary and the nanny's co-workers, or why not reduce taxes on the patient, the pensioner or the unemployed. It is true, as the committee notes, that the international work against tax evasion has developed in recent years. It is equally true that the government's rhetoric has changed. The problem is that too many pieces are missing in the work of the government. The Left Party is proud to have received increased resources in the last budget to strengthen the work against tax evasion, and we are proud that, in cooperation with the Government, we have launched an investigation to get to the tax advisors. However, we believe that more and stronger measures are needed, and Sweden should put on a leadership shirt in international contexts rather than slowing down important proposals. In our motion on tax evasion, we present ten proposals that make a difference. Why does the government say no to a tax evasion commission? A parliamentary inquiry is needed to identify the scope of tax evasion and propose further measures and new legislation. Such a Commission may be tasked with developing legislation that obliges banks and tax consultants to regard all legal entities in tax havens as high-risk customers. That is an example. A tax evasion commission has the advantage of giving real weight to the issue and giving publicity to all shady deals even when the cameras have stopped when it is no longer reported as frequently in the media. Why does the government think rich people hiding money abroad should get away with it? In Sweden there is the possibility of making so-called self-corrections. In Sweden, you do not have tax surcharges, but the period only goes back six years. The consequence is that you take home the money you have hidden for much longer in a Swiss bank, for example. The Left Party believes that a tax surcharge should always be imposed on self-righteous persons and that the retroactive period of taxation should be extended from six to fifteen years for the self-righteous. Why is the government betraying its promise of open country-by-country reporting? Before the elections, both the Social Democrats and the Green Party promised to work for a public country-by-country reporting. This was promised repeatedly, among other things in a survey that Diakonia did and then spread it among its members to encourage people to vote for the right party. With these parties well in government position, Sweden is today, according to consistent reports, the country that tries hardest to stop open country-by-country reporting. Why is that? Why did you change foot? Madam President, I would like Let me change the subject. Let me go over to the F tax. In the last ten years, there has been a complete explosion of people with F-taxes. Over 570 000 have recently registered for F-tax over the last ten years, which means that today we are approaching 1 million with F-taxes. After all, it is not a problem in itself that those who want to do business get an F-tax note – quite the opposite. The problem is all those who in an increasingly harsh labour market are forced to become F-taxors in order for entrepreneurs to squeeze their costs and circumvent their employer responsibility. Several sectors report how to be forced to become an entrepreneur and to keep or get a job. The Left Party has a series of proposals to get to grips with this. I also see that several Social Democrats have been exercising on the problem. One of our proposals is that we should go back to the order that means that it should not be enough to have a client to be approved for the F tax note. I must say that the committee's position on this matter is astounding. The committee agrees that the number of clients is a good measure, but then it writes: So one imagines that F-taxors should have several clients, and one assumes that the Tax Agency does such a control. The big problem for the committee, for the government, for the Socialist Party, which should be in favour of this proposal, is that the Tax Agency cannot and must not start from this. The Government proposal F-tax on more people from 2008 explicitly states in both the summary and p. 26 that the provision should allow more people to engage in business against a client. It was like the whole point of the change! That was the purpose. In addition, when I wanted to check the situation in a conversation with the Swedish Tax Agency, it turned out first that this is not being checked today because of what I said – the Swedish Tax Agency reads the law and the preparatory work – and secondly that there are no systems to do this type of checks. All in all, therefore, the argument for the committee's rejection falls together as a house of cards. Is it not time for a workers' government to actually fix this fiffle and arc to prevent more being forced to become so-called false F treasurers? The government must act tougher, more decisive and faster. On point-by-point, today's debates have shown that the government in matters of taxation is more concerned with big business than with the workers. Lowered corporate tax, no wealth tax and no harsher demands on several clients for F-tax– is it really reasonable for the Social Democratic Labour Party to pursue such bourgeois policy in this area? I am convinced that your constituents want something else. I can also promise and guarantee that we in the Left Party will continue to push for a policy that puts the workers first and creates an economy that works for everyone and not just for the rich. We hope that you are in that fight and are not opposed to such changes as, for example, demands for several clients to receive an F tax note.
i-AhS9yLbbABE1yWBS54qFtX	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 8. Right now, there is a major change in our society. We live in the middle of it, so maybe we don't always think about it. But we have digitalization, a digital revolution, which sweeps through all areas of society. Part of what has come out of digitalisation is the collaborative economy, as it is called, or the platform economy – dear children have many names. We have, of course, shared things for thousands of years. The difference now is that the digital platforms, not least our smart phones, make it very easy to share stuff. It's easy to find someone who can rent or lend a thing. This is economically smart. It is economically effective to do this. It is also environmentally smart to be able to share gadgets and find someone who can rent them. An often quoted figure is that an average drilling machine is used for 15 minutes. The first time I heard that number, I thought about the drilling machine I have myself – I haven't even used it for 15 minutes. Renting out such gadgets, finding someone who can use them easily and using them more efficiently is very smart. I think it is important that we in politics make it easy for this type of economy and exchange to emerge. What we have seen so far is that there are many such services in many areas but that they run into old rules and laws that we have. We've also seen a problem with a lot of these transactions being in the gray or the black zone when it comes to sharing economy-- you don't pay taxes for this stuff. Sometimes it's probably pure cheating, deliberate cheating, but very often you don't know what's going on in these contexts. It's complicated to do the right thing. However, the solution to a large part of this problem is very simple. All this information is stored digitally. That's what makes it so easy to find a drilling machine or whatever it is you want to rent. What you can do is connect this information of these companies to the Swedish Tax Agency by the Swedish Tax Agency having an API or any other technical solution. We want to give a commission to the Swedish Tax Agency to develop such a solution so that we can get rid of a lot of the gray and the black payments. It should be easy to do the right thing here. Madam President, let me also take up one of our other proposals. We have a very successful business in our high schools, Young Enterprise. Young entrepreneurs start businesses during their upper secondary school period. 360 000 students have gone through this over the years and started businesses. At the moment, almost 28,000 companies run such UFs. Perhaps it goes without saying that there are positive aspects to this already at a young age. But there have also been scientific evaluations of it, and it is seen that those who have run UF companies have higher middle income later in life. Several of them have gained a higher position in business. More people have jobs. More companies have started. More people hire. They have higher turnover in their companies, and the life expectancy of the companies is longer than that of those who have not run UFs. However, there is one small problem, and that is that when those who have run these companies leave high school, they have to liquidate the company. This could be made much easier so that if you want to easily turn your UF company into a real company and easily get F tax based on the UF company you have run. It is our proposal – to change those rules so that it will be easier to run a UF company if you want to do so.
i-162acf85688019d8-885	Madam President, I would like In today's Sweden, regardless of age, it is only possible to be written at an address. This means that alternate housing for children with divorced parents is not reflected in the population register. However, we believe that in many cases it would be reasonable for children under the age of 18 to be written in double addresses. The fact that children are only registered at one address poses several problems, such as the fact that letters from public authorities, health care, school, and more generally, are only sent home to the population register address, that is, an address of the two children actually stay at. The other parent risks missing this important information. Family financial support is also paid only to the parent who has the child registered with him or her. The rules for the registration of children living in the population should therefore be reviewed alternately, and the possibility of children being written at several addresses should be examined. Furthermore, letters to guardians should be regularly addressed and sent to all guardians. This is an area of improvement which we hope the government will take on board. I turn to the Cash Register Act, as some have said. Its aim is to maintain competition on a level playing field, whether in the form of ambulatory sales or sales of a fixed nature. The Cash Register Act then provides for a cash register with a control unit and a receipt printer. As a customer, you should be able to get a receipt when shopping, whether it is in a store or in a market. The problem with this is, as I mentioned earlier here in the speaker's chair, that many companies are actually unable to comply with the Cash Register Act. Weather and wind and other circumstances around our country mean that some actually can't handle it that way. We Christian Democrats believe that one should be able to review the cash register law so that it becomes more round in the edges and entrepreneurs do not feel that they are committing a crime but can manage their business well and properly. A review of the Cash Register Act should be carried out to ensure that, irrespective of the area and weather conditions, it can be applied legally in mobile market and market sales. We cannot make it so difficult for entrepreneurs to comply with the rules that they would rather refrain from doing so. Then I would like to go into representative responsibility. We as a party believe that it is far too hard to interpret today. Individuals can get into a lot of trouble. Businesses can be declared bankrupt far too soon, and this affects the individual. It may also be that you do not dare to start the business you would like to start just because you feel that you can get into very bad things. In fact, stock companies are a form in which you sometimes do not have personal responsibility, but it is the company as such that has responsibility. The law on representative liability is interpreted in such a way as to circumvent it. Even in tax cases you can get into very bad trouble because of how we handle this. In tax cases, the scheme is such that entrepreneurs or other taxable persons have to pay their debts pending a decision by the administrative courts. So you have to pay before you are convicted – a very strange order. There must be something wrong in the system that allows this to be handled in the way it is. A person can therefore theoretically get the house foreclosed even if he is later acquitted in a higher court. The existing deferral rules are limited and are applied very restrictively. We believe that there must be exceptional reasons for non-admissibility. I have discussed this in a number of interpellations with the minister responsible, and we also have a committee initiative from April 2015 that has not been dealt with. I think it will take far too long; we must ensure that something happens. It is companies and individuals who are affected. The tax burden fell in Sweden during the year of the alliance government. However, Sweden still has one of the highest tax quotas in the world. However, studies show that the Swedes in the Community do not know how high the tax charge is. This is problematic for a number of reasons, not least because it makes it difficult for citizens to assess whether they are getting what was promised by the taxes paid. The political debate must become quite strange to the citizens if they have no idea what tax pressure we have in Sweden and one party says it is too high and the other that it is too low. It would be very tasty if the citizens could take this on board more clearly, take part in the debate and actually create their own opinion. In order to clarify to the individual employee how much tax and social security contributions he or she pays, employers' contributions should be indicated on the pay statement. It would not be very difficult because there are now rules that companies should also provide information on the amount of tax and fees they have allocated at the level of the person. I must say, however, that I am a little surprised by the Swedish Democrats today. As I interpreted it, they talked about three areas: representative responsibility, cash register law, and employers' contributions to be stated on the payroll statement. These are exactly the same areas that I choose to talk about. The difference between me and the Swedish Democrats is that I have reservations in these areas while the Swedish Democrats do not have any. Perhaps it is as the Swedish Democrats say: It depends on who says things. Obviously, the Swedish Democrats have not made the effort to put forward reservations in these areas, but they rely on it to work anyway. Take the responsibility of representatives, for example, where the government could well have been put in front of it. But you choose not to. And you choose not to take part in demanding that employers' contributions be entered on the payroll statement. Then we could have had another ruling in this House next week when we decide. But the opinion of the Swedish Democrats is probably that who says things is more important than making something happen in the Swedish parliament. That is regrettable.
i-162acf85688019d8-903	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the attack from Larry Söder! That's interesting. I have put forward a proposal to the Alliance for a common reservation to resolve the problem of the Cash Register Act. That is not what the Alliance wanted to agree to, and I am very sorry that you do not want to put forward joint proposals to remove harmful activities, taxes and other things, as we could do if you only dared to have discussions. But you don't. You want to retain the content of the December agreement. Verbalt, you have distanced yourself from it, but you continue to work with it as it originally was. I therefore think that the criticism that Larry Söder is now pointing at us is actually a hundred percent beating back on the Alliance and on Larry Söder and his friends.
i-162acf85688019d8-905	Madam President, I would like This shows in some way that the most important thing for the Swedish Democrats is who carries the message. As far as the Cash Register Act is concerned, there are two reservations, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats. There is full freedom for the Swedish Democrats to vote in favour of those reservations when we come to this House next week. I expect Olle Felten to do so, because he is so clear that it is not who delivers the message that is most important, but to get something done. It is great, I think, that the Swedish Democrats have turned around on this issue. As far as representative responsibility is concerned, the alliance parties have been quite clear for a long period of time. The fact that the Swedish Democrats are now discovering that there is a breeding ground and a dissatisfaction with this around in Företagarsverige is great. There are reservations from alliance parties that you can support on this too – just vote next week. I expect Olle Felten to do it. With regard to the employer's contribution on the pay slips, it is even more exciting. Here we could actually get another majority in Parliament next week if the Swedish Democrats decide to do something about it and not just say in the speaker's chair what they think is nice at the time but actually want to do something. I expect the Swedish Democrats and Olle Felten to vote in favour of that alliance reservation next week. This means that we have a different majority and that the government is allowed to follow this. That is great news that the Swedish Democrats are giving: that you are now following the Alliance in these three parts. It is gratifying for the Swedish people, because then you are involved in doing something instead of putting on your sacrifice jacket and standing by the side of it.
i-162acf85688019d8-909	Madam President, I would like Now it seems Larry Söder has got off to a serious start. He looks really angry. But this is how it is: The decision-making process in Parliament means that it will not be as Larry says, even if we really want to. In fact, it takes us to have discussions before we get here. You don't want that, Larry Söder. You do not want to create a majority for the decisions that are needed to enable us to make this kind of harmful proposal. Larry Söder knows, just like everyone else who's been following us, that we haven't turned around at all. We have had exactly the same opinion as regards the Cash Register Act, the representative's responsibility or any question you want from the issues we have raised. This is just fiction from Larry Söder and an attempt to mix the cards away. It is you who choose to have the December agreement with the Left Cartel and to force a left-wing government, Larry Söder. You're the one who created that situation-- it's not us. But I welcome the Alliance to hold discussions with us. Then we will find solutions to a great many issues. There is absolutely no problem. You're welcome tonight if you like. I'm supposed to be on the train, but I can leave in the morning instead.
i-162acf85688019d8-912	Madam President, I would like Obviously, it is easy to use the fact that discussions must be held before decisions are taken in some cases, but not in other cases. I do not know that there were any negotiations before the Swedish Democrats in November 2014 supported an alliance budget. You chose to do so in this House when we voted. That means that you could do the same in this case. So there are no rules which in any way prevent you from doing so. What I am opposed to in this case is that the Swedish Democrats have come up with this now. We've had exercise management and everything. There are no reservations from the Swedish Democrats. But in the speaker's chair you only talk about things you haven't reserved for, and you expect other parties to jump on this. I think it's a cowardly game. You can see that there are discussions in the depths of the people on these issues, and you think you should be able to keep up with that train. I would like to give you a piece of advice: next time, it is good if you have reservations in the areas that allow you to actually talk about these parts. It would strengthen democracy. I see that's what you're not doing here. I am very surprised when you discuss something which the Alliance has actually done and which you can actually support in the speaker's chair. You could have done that in committee when it was up. But you didn't come up with it then. You came up with it afterwards. That is what I criticise the Swedish Democrats for, not the opinion as such, because we think quite equally in these three parts. But I can't believe you put it that way. But Olle Felten is welcome. I will check how Olle Felten votes next week on these three issues.
i-162acf85688019d8-918	Madam President, I would like In the Committee on Taxation, we work a lot on issues relating to what taxes we should charge and at what level they should be. Of course, we do not always agree on this – perhaps the previous debates today have made that clear. But it is both interesting and very important work, because it is through tax collection that we fund our common welfare. It is also important that it works well, so that we get the tax revenue we need and in a way that gives legitimacy to the tax system. This report is precisely about this. Many bourgeois movements are about making taxes visible. We Social Democrats may think that it is just as important to make visible what taxes should be done. Companies have a great deal of use of taxes because it is taxes that finance roads and railways on which their goods are transported, which train the workforce they need and quickly ensure that those who fall ill return to health. It's kind of connected. In this context, it should be pointed out that there is nothing to prevent employers from providing their employees with relevant information on both taxes and wage contributions. Wage programmes can be easily adapted to this extent. There is also nothing to prevent companies from making VAT and excise duties visible in their price data. We do not believe that the Riksdag should decide that employers and companies should have a statutory obligation to provide the desired information to their employees or customers. Bourgeois politicians tend to highlight the problems of the company's regulatory burden. We therefore want to be careful to introduce mandatory rules that increase the administrative burden on businesses and authorities. We also have motions to be able to pay taxes voluntarily. Actually, those moves are kind of ridiculous. Normal people who feel that they want to do something more for others get involved in volunteering or donate money to various non-profit organizations without the idea of tax deductions. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the current government has worked so much against unfair competition, undeclared work, tax evasion and economic crime. It is worrying that serious organised crime goes into ordinary business and then knocks out honest entrepreneurs by making lower bids or simply threatening competitors. The large industry group is an association of employers' and professional organisations, authorities and trade unions working against tax evasion and unfair competition. They have had three main demands, the first of which, dealing with human resources in the construction sector, has come into place. The second requirement concerns monthly data at individual level. We will deal with this in the spring in committee and here in Parliament. The third concerns the obligation to register foreign companies and their employees. The Government proposes in the bill for monthly data that data at individual level in an employer's declaration should replace the annual data currently provided in a control task. In fact, in January 2013, the Parliament announced to the bourgeois government that it would come back with a proposal for monthly data on employees' wages and taxes with effect from 1 January 2014. Now this government is delivering what it was actually unable to do. Yet an announcement is being called for. It doesn't seem entirely justified. The third requirement from the Large Industry Group is that foreign companies should be registered in Sweden, so that we should know which foreign companies and foreign workers work in Sweden and that taxes and contributions are paid as they should in their home country. It is quite unreasonable for certain employees and companies to be invisible to our authorities. There are also examples of trixing, where a foreign company operating in Sweden is written in one country and then uses labour from a third country – all in order to manipulate taxes and undermine employees' working conditions and insurance cover. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has got a certain overview of foreign employees in Sweden. Reasonably, the IRS must have it too. The issue has been raised in the Government Office, and I hope that this third demand from the Big Industry Group will also come to an end. A large proportion of economic crime is therefore about companies using undeclared labour or cheating taxes and charges in some other way. The negative effects of tax evasion are numerous. In addition to shifting the tax burden to other taxpayers, the fraud distorts competition. Serious traders are at risk of being knocked out by tax-fed competitors. Furthermore, if certain taxpayers are able to shift their share of the tax and charge burden on others, respect for the democratic decision-making system will be disrupted. Maintaining trust in the rule of law requires effective fight against tax fraud and economic crime. The Government has stated in its regulation letter to the Swedish Tax Agency for 2017 that the agency in its annual report for 2017 – 2020 will report how it has worked, both on its own and in collaboration with the Swedish Economic Crimes Agency, to strengthen and intensify efforts to combat tax offences, tax evasion and tax evasion, as well as the effects of measures taken. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency will report on the measures taken to develop collaboration with the Swedish Economic Crime Authority in this area. Madam President, I would like There is a wide-ranging debate within the trade union movement about the changes that the bourgeois government made in 2009 regarding the F tax. The Swedish Parliament announced to the government in spring 2012 that there was reason to make an unconditional evaluation of the effect of changing the concept of nutrition in 2009. The committee believes – as Mr Daniel explained – that in most cases the number of clients is a fairly good measure of what is called in the legislation a dependency on the client and his activities. The committee assumes that the number of clients is therefore a factor that matters when the Swedish Tax Agency assesses whether a person should be regarded as an independent entrepreneur or employee. The Government has not finalised Parliament's letter of spring 2012 on an evaluation of the changed concept of nutrition. My view and that of the Social Democrats is that we need to come back to this issue, perhaps in an investigation when the investigation budget so permits. The government has had many tax issues to investigate, and the Ministry of Finance cannot immediately or even in a parliamentary term resolve all the issues left outstanding by the previous government. The F ‐ tax issue is definitely not removed from the Social Democratic agenda. Madam President, I would like The requirement for certified cash registers, introduced in 2010 by the then bourgeois government, is a good reform. One is surprised that so many individual bourgeois members do not seem to be able to stand up for the decision but come in with all sorts of motions. It is surely a good thing that this also applies in the marketplace and in the market and that we have cleaned up the black and tax-free payments that have been going on there. Furthermore, there is an exception for those who trade in squares to a negligible extent. One last gap is now closed when foreign entrepreneurs enter the system. The rules will be amended on 1 May 2017, and a trader without a permanent establishment in Sweden will no longer be exempted from the obligation to use certified cash registers if sales are made against cash payment or payment by credit card. Mr President, I would like to There are many sports about the censuses as well. Although they are, of course, rejected, they raise a number of pressing questions, such as gender-neutral social security numbers and identity theft through the use of other people's social security numbers. To the proposal of the previous bourgeois government Enhanced protection of personal data for threatened and persecuted persons was added in 2014 to a motion by the Social Democrats to continue working to create stronger protection for the personal data of the victims of violence. Although men may, of course, also be subjected to threats and persecution, we are talking about a problem which is predominantly affecting us women and which too many women are forced to endure. The so-called Safety Investigation concluded its work in the summer of 2015 and has handed over the report "Enhanced security for threatened and persecuted persons". The task of the investigation was to propose measures to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons. I assume that our government will continue to prepare the investigation's action proposals along with everything else that concerns men's violence against women. Having said that, Mr President, I support the proposal in the Sku26 report.
i-162acf85688019d8-938	Mr President, I would like to I will continue to emphasise the importance of giving more protection to people who are persecuted and threatened in Sweden. The personal data is the important thing. You need to know and be able to trust that authorities cannot disclose personal data between each other so that the stalker can find out where the person lives or other things related to the person. What is strange in the committee's position in the report is that other things are involved. It is written that on 17 March 2016, the government presented the bill Protection against illegal use of identity, but it is something else, which is about someone taking my identity and using it in my name. Instead, this is about protecting the individual's personal data against an perpetrator. I would like the Social Democrats, and I would like the Green Party too, to develop further, so that we do not support our motion on this issue. You say that you are protecting the weak groups, and this is indeed a vulnerable group – those who are threatened and persecuted in society and do not feel security. It is also incredibly difficult to obtain a protected identity and personal data. In many cases the decision has to be reviewed once a year, and the fear these people feel every time it is to be reconsidered is terrible. I am very interested in how the government parties reason on this issue, which is important to this weak, vulnerable group.
i-162acf85688019d8-943	Mr President, I would like to I agree – it is absolutely terrible for those people who are so vulnerable. The examples that you mentioned in your speech are, of course, absolutely terrible – one must not use too strong words in this House. It is partly about how to come up with a strategy and get better regulation, and partly about how to protect these people when people do wrong, which is almost a separate issue. I agree that it is absolutely terrible, and that will be the worst thing I say, given where I stand right now. In addition to the letter, the government has developed a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. It includes, among other things, stronger protection and support for women and children who are victims of violence. I am not fully aware of this whole issue, but I think it is incredibly important. I will continue to look at what is included in this strategy. I don't know how to make sure people don't do anything wrong, but more needs to be done.
i-162acf85688019d8-947	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like at least Maria Strömkvist will be watching this issue. However, this is a fairly large issue, and it includes, for example, the possibility of a much greater recognition of fictitious personal data. There are different parts to this. During the time of the alliance government, we added the Safety Investigation, which in 2015 made a number of proposals. These are in place, and I am concerned that the government – which is not very capable of action, if I am to express myself kindly here in the evening – does not bring these proposals forward so that they come to Parliament for decision. A lot of people out there are waiting for this, and they're very worried. A party partner of Maria Strömkvist told me before the debate began not to forget that LGBTQ and transgender people are also incredibly vulnerable and have a great need to get, for example, fiddled personal data. Especially transgender people have a great need to get protected identity and often have a very tough location. This must happen very soon. I would like to ask: how will the Social Democrats and the Green Party push their government to bring these proposals to the fore to Parliament?
i-162acf85688019d8-951	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Lotta Finstorp, I am not worried at all. I know that our government is working on a lot of different proposals, including those relating to these things. I am not at all worried and do not agree that we are paralysed – there are proposals for proposals. I can promise you, Lotta, that I will be watching this, because it is an incredibly important issue. The strategy that has been developed, and the questions that are to be presented to the Riksdag based on it, should be presented as soon as possible. That's a very important question.
i-162acf85688019d8-953	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria, for your post! I agree with you that we have a powerful government that delivers many suggestions. Unfortunately, however, some proposals are missing. That is the impatience. It was not least noticeable when we talked about F-tax. This is not a new problem, and it is not something that the Social Democrats have not paid any attention to before in opposition. That's why I find it so distressing. It doesn't take a giant investigation to restore at least the small part that you should have more than one client in order to get an F tax note. The longer time passes, the more time goes away. This term of office is almost over. I also find it embarrassing that you use arguments that are not correct, as you actually did, something I could also show. The same thing happened last year when I pushed for the third requirement, which you now hope will proceed from the S tora industry group on the registration of foreign companies. Then you said that this work is going on in the Government Office, while Magdalena Andersson said in response to a question just a few weeks earlier that no such work is going on. There is something here that you need to take a grip on. I would welcome the fact that, on the part of the committee, we sent a clear signal to the government that this is a priority work, because it affects a great many people in the labour market. You talk well about tax crimes and how it knocks away the legs of serious companies and how people are put into unsustainable situations. I just wonder: why can you not agree to the proposal for a national action plan against tax evasion, undeclared work and social dumping, as proposed by the Left Party?
i-162acf85688019d8-959	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Sestrajcic says that there would be no need for a major investigation without a small one. However, we know that when we come to the Committee on Taxation and the House, we need impact assessments that are quite robust in order to get some support for the issues. And everything should be a priority. That's the advantage when you're not completely in control. You're with a little bit. You are very welcome to join in a little bit, but the government must take responsibility for the whole. You can't give everything priority. Let us hope that we get the resources so that we can carry out an investigation and move forward on the F tax issue. Like you, we think it is an important issue to move on with, and that is not a new question if you say so.
i-162acf85688019d8-962	Mr President, I would like to It is nice to be able to influence a little and get 10 billion to municipalities for example, as well as all the investments that you also like, which often come from the Left Party. Even more beautiful would be to give priority to the policy of taxation, so that it is not bourgeois when we leave this term of office. You're talking about priorities, Maria Strömkvist. It is clear to me that you are prioritising reduced corporate tax rather than correcting the F tax problems. That is a clear and clear priority as you do. I think it is quite unreasonable. The F tax problem, as you say, is not new. I'm absolutely convinced that you and I basically feel quite the same here. But if we think equally, I think we should also dare to send a signal to the government that this is a priority issue. As I said in my last speech, this is not something that requires a huge investigation. In addition, impact assessments have already been carried out at the Swedish Tax Agency, which evaluated it in 2013. This evaluation states that it is clear that there is a desire among many employers to use F-tax instead of hiring, in order to avoid taking employer responsibility. It is quite clear that this problem is being pointed out. I therefore believe that there is a basis that is sufficient to carry out a small investigation and then to overcome the problem. I imagine that those who need a solution to this problem are yours and our constituents. They expect it to be improved in the areas of their employment relationships, for example. Then this is an issue which it is very important to do something about, just as the issue of the registration of foreign companies, which I also think you should speed up. But we're focusing on this with F-tax now. That's the most important thing to deal with. Can't you agree to press the government on this?
i-162acf85688019d8-967	Mr President, I would like to I agree that this is an important issue. When we are criticized from the Left for having too little tax while being criticized from the Right because we have too much tax, it feels as if we in the Social Democrats may have a just right and proper compass.
i-162acf85688019d8-969	Mr President, I would like to Last night I met a good friend and played a game of Monopoly, as you sometimes do. It's a fun game if you don't mind. But it is also a game that shows that unregulated capitalism does not work. We need rules and tax systems. When I told you that today we were going to have this debate on tax procedures and censuses, my friend Olle did not think it sounded like a particularly exciting subject, but these are issues that are of great importance to people and businesses in society. There are sometimes contradictions between simplicity and agility on the one hand and the need to carry out checks on the other. There is no rule, or at least very few rules, that have come about without a purpose and a need. This is a balance that is important to watch. Later this spring we will handle a bill for monthly reporting of employer contributions at individual level. We will come back to a debate on that proposal, but the question is also relevant in this debate. It is about getting tools to combat undeclared work with all that it means in terms of crime, unfair competition, exploitation of people and links to serious, organised crime. In every situation when we introduce rules, we must ensure that administrative work is as smooth as possible for both companies and authorities. The human rights system has also come into being to deal with these problems. It was first introduced for hairdressers and restaurants and has since been expanded. Mr President, I would like to Another area dealt with in the report is the Nordic tax treaty. Norway, together with Germany, is our largest export countries – Norway is even bigger than Germany if you include border trade. We have frequent exchanges between all the Nordic countries in every way possible. We would benefit from further strengthening the exchange and removing the obstacles that still exist. We also see that when cooperation within the European Union does not go as painlessly as we would like, Nordic cooperation becomes more relevant. There are more areas than this to cooperate in. I would also like to say something short about digitalisation. This is something that is increasingly emerging in more and more areas. A few weeks ago I made a study visit to Trelleborg Municipality. There we are in the process of automating supply support applications. The ambition is that not only the application itself but also the examination should be automated. This is coming in an increasing number of areas. Such a system can free people who have worked on this so that they can help people to enter the labour market. Finally, I would like to say something about visibility and transparency. In the debate, it sometimes sounds like we have hidden taxes and charges. It's not like that. It is open in Sweden, and we also have a tax office that is good at telling us how things work. On the Swedish Tax Agency's website you can calculate the income tax you pay. You fill in how much you earn and get the result through a simple push of a button, which is a very good service. As Maria Strömkvist said, what we get for tax money is not always visible. Sometimes when I tell people that a regular place in preschool often costs 130 000 – 150 000 SEK a year, they think it would be very expensive if it were paid as fees in full and not through the tax bill. With this, Mr President, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-162acf85688019d8-978	Mr President, I would like to I would, of course, like to put the same question to the Green Party: how will the Green Party push the government to come up with proposals for greater protection for those who are victims of violence and threats?
i-162acf85688019d8-979	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to get so bored either. I was touched by the speech by Lotta Finstorp. I understand that this is an urgent subject and a very important issue for many people very directly. I am not more familiar with the details or the investigation referred to by Lotta Finstorp. But this is, of course, an issue that we will have to look more closely at, because it is clear that it is important to resolve the situation of the people concerned by this.
i-162acf85688019d8-980	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm changing the subject fast. It's about the sharing economy and the investigation that came the other day, SOU 2017:26 Sharing economy on users' terms. We have a moderate proposal to review the possibility for the Tax Agency and other relevant authorities to provide assistance to companies in the sharing economy, such as IT support and administrative support, to simplify for buyers and sellers, but also for tax to be paid in order to make it right. In the investigation that came the other day, the investigators clearly say that no closer study has been made of tax rules and effects. Therefore, I wonder why the Green Party, which is always at the forefront when new things, innovations and other things happen – I understand you so anyway – rejects our motion on the need for good platforms to combat tax evasion.
i-162acf85688019d8-983	Mr President, I would like to I see the Green Party as Lotta Finstorp does, as a forward-looking and innovative party. I have not been able to read the investigation myself; it came well last week. What I have seen in the summary of the proposals is that they are exciting. I assume the investigation will be sent out for a referral. After I have read the investigation and when the referral has arrived, I look forward to hearing all the comments. As I said in the debate that we had last week, I think there may be several exciting proposals in the investigation that are worth moving on with.
i-CSUkhzoA2CdAwxMPB98MoY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for your post! Sometimes I wonder how much influence the Green Party actually has on tax policy and in the Ministry of Finance. I have seen the reversal that Rasmus has made in fiscal policy to the right, so perhaps it is Rasmus' merit that the Social Democrats are stuck in a bourgeois tax policy. Maybe Rasmus wants to take credit for it. In other areas, it seems that you have no influence whatsoever. I'll mention two issues where I'm pretty sure you environmentalists before you were in government would have thought something like the Left Party. One is the question of tax evasion. Like the Social Democrats, you promised before the elections to promote open country-by-country reporting. After the elections, you support and are part of a government that counteracts it. Different NGOs and tax justice movements in many countries in Europe have called and asked what is happening to the Swedish government and whether it can be influenced. The reports are clear. You're the one who stops open country-by-country reporting. The second issue on which I am equally convinced is that the Green Party and the Green Party voters have a fairly clear view of corporate tax. Does the Green Party really think it is reasonable to reduce corporate tax? You were not in on the fall in 2012. Then you voted against it, just like the Left Party. But now you're in a government that's going to lower corporate tax – at least it's a proposal. Is it reasonable environmental party politics to take money and give money to big business, money that is needed elsewhere? Are you in favour of a reduced corporate tax, Rasmus Ling? Is that an election promise that you've been pushing and trying to fulfill now?
i-162acf85688019d8-989	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it is to my credit that the government is running the tax policy that it is doing, even though it is fine with the high thoughts. However, it is a very good policy. We have increased certain taxes, other taxes have been reduced. Now we are also moving towards a green tax exchange, which is good and which Sweden needs. We are reducing taxes, for example, on pensioners and the sick, which is not least a good distribution policy. Today, the largest companies do not pay corporate tax to the same extent as many others. I have not seen that the government has made any proposal to the Riksdag to lower it, but if Daniel has received such a thing, he will show it to me afterwards. That corporation tax should be cut into stone in some specific percentage that then never changes, I do not look forward to myself. It currently stands at 22%, roughly in line with the EU average. If the government comes forward with such a proposal, we will see what it looks like then.
i-162acf85688019d8-992	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Rasmus Ling that it probably wasn't about high thoughts but rather about a fear that it's actually that he has an influence and that's why there isn't much going on in this area. It's a good thing we're lowering taxes for the sick. That is the Left Party proposal. And it is a good thing that we lower taxes on pensioners. It is a Social Democratic proposal. It is a perfectly reasonable development of the tax system, however, which is marginal in this context. More can be done in this area. Ekot reported that there was a proposal to reduce corporate tax in the Government Office. We don't have to talk about hard facts. Let's talk theory. Would you in an election debate be for reduced corporate tax, Rasmus Ling? Would you say yes or no if a voter asked you whether the Green Party is in favour of reduced corporate tax? I find these interesting questions to be answered. You did not answer either why you fled from your promise to a large part of the solidarity movement, to a large part of the movement that had put its hope in, among others, the Green Party that there would be a change in this area. But basically there has been little change. You have failed your election promise. Do you think it is reasonable to betray such an election promise? What arguments do you have that you are no longer in favour of open country-by-country reporting?
i-162acf85688019d8-996	Mr President, I would like to As regards how I will answer questions in election debates, the Green Party has not yet adopted an election manifesto. I do not know whether the Left Party has done so or whether it is done to make decisions once and then it is timeless, that one does not have to adapt to how reality changes on some issues. Corporate tax is not for me a priority tax that, if I am to respond spontaneously, I want to change. I do not see that there are any major problems with it, that it should not have to be increased or reduced in any drastic way. But we'll be working on our election manifesto in time for the next election. On the issue of tax evasion, extensive work is being done. The OECD developed BEPS with 15 action plans, and the EU has moved on with several of them and regulated. That's good. Europe needs to do that. We have a free market, and we need to work together to overcome the opportunities that multinational companies operating in different countries have to escape tax. We do this in a good way both in Sweden and together with other EU countries.
i-162acf85688019d8-999	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by referring to what my wise colleague, Lotta Finstorp, has said. In my speech, I will focus on a rather unknown but very important issue for Swedish companies, namely fiscal liability under the Tax Procedure Act. Four out of five new jobs are emerging among SMEs. They are Sweden's job engine. For more jobs to emerge, a policy and regulatory framework is needed that makes it profitable and attractive to be a small business. Rules must be reasonable and balanced. These are not the rules on representative liability today, at least not their application. As a general rule, representatives of a limited liability company are not personally liable for debts in the company. But they may be in some regulated cases, and the rules are in place to strike a balance between the interests of the company and those of the creditors. It's important. On the other hand, in the case of taxes and charges to the general government, there is tax liability. It's much stricter. If a representative has not ensured that the company has paid its taxes and charges by the due date at the latest, while winding-up measures by the company have not been initiated, he or she may be personally liable for the debts through the representative's liability. Mr President, I would like to You're supposed to do the right thing. I want to be very clear about that. You shouldn't be irresponsible in a company and never risk liability. However, the application of this regulatory framework has become far too tough. On paper, intentional or gross negligence must be required; these are rather tough demands. But in reality, it is enough that you are only one day late with the company's tax payments. Entrepreneurs are also people. You can get sick. You can choose the wrong accounting consultant. You can be fooled by a partner. Take the case of Johan, who has been much overwritten lately. He did everything in his power. He stood up for what he thought was a friend and sat on the board of the friend's company. He was in constant contact with the accounting consultant to make sure that everything was right. When it was discovered that the friend had fake invoices, Johan became personally responsible for payment. He had to borrow his and his wife's common house in order to be able to pay 850,000 kronor. If you do everything in your power to do right and you still cannot do right, you should not be punished as if you have been irresponsible. I think very few people in this country think it's reasonable. Yet this is how representative responsibility has developed. A majority in the Swedish parliament was already in the spring of 2015 of the view that the regulatory framework needs to be reviewed, and we announced this to the government. The Tax Agency, which is a party to the case, was tasked by the Government to explain how the rules are applied. That report came almost a year and a half ago. If I have understood correctly, nothing has happened since then. According to the Minister of Finance, who visited us in the committee a week ago, the government is investigating how to investigate the matter. That's not good enough. This is a distorted system that has unreasonable consequences and gives the state an unreasonable sour cream. It needs to be addressed. Responsibilities may have to remain, but they need to be applied more reasonably so that caring people do not get caught up. The government has had plenty of time, and it is distressing that it has not come any further.
