i-0a2e44a73839b312-2	Mrs. Old President! Today's debate deals with four motions for resolutions on citizenship, migration and refugee policy, family immigration and labour immigration, and concerns a large number of committee sessions and individual movements from the general period of exercise. I request the approval of Section 5 of the SfU17. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. Mrs. Old President! At the outset, I note that the rescheduling of policies in these areas decided by the Government and the Parliament in broad agreement is also reflected in these committee reports. The policy pursued by the government has the widest possible majority and is the only one possible in view of the proposals made by all parties in Parliament. The proposals are based on the premise that there must be order and order in refugee policy. It is a policy that is well balanced according to the conditions that apply in the world around us. It is a policy based on regulated immigration that is sustainable. We cannot have a policy which differs widely from that of other countries in Europe. That is also why it is important that we push Europe for a common migration policy in which all countries take joint responsibility. Migration in the world is increasing, and Sweden is part of that development. The long-term sustainability and legal certainty of migration policies that safeguard the right to asylum is a prerequisite for managing these developments in the long term. Asylum law is a right enshrined in international conventions. The number of asylum seekers who applied to Sweden in 2015 was record high, and the challenges for the Swedish asylum system were therefore great. The situation of reception is currently under control, although there are still challenges. In order to deal with the acute refugee situation and to uphold the right of asylum, a restriction was needed in the reception of refugees in Sweden. The Swedish legal framework was therefore temporarily adapted to the minimum level of EU law and international conventions by means of temporary measures, such as temporary residence permits and temporary identity and border controls. The measures taken together with political changes in other countries and within the EU resulted in significantly fewer people applying for asylum in Sweden in 2016. According to the committee, the temporary measures taken in a very strained situation were necessary and sufficient. I would like to point out that the restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden are temporary and that the government already intends to assess the need for the law to apply during the last year of its validity after two years. Although the government's policy has led to our being on the right track in migration policy, there are challenges. Some of these challenges have existed for a long time, and I can only regret that previous governments did not start the necessary change work. However, we are pleased that this work has now been started. This concerns, for example, the issue of age assessments, where we now have a new working order in place. The same applies to the housing issue, where all municipalities now have to share responsibility for the reception of new arrivals. This is a joint responsibility for the whole country. We now also have a government that is active in EU cooperation to influence the EU's common regulatory framework, so that all EU countries share responsibility for the refugees coming to the EU. A great deal of work is under way in all the relevant policy areas, either in ongoing investigations or in proposals prepared by the government. Many motion requests have therefore been rejected by that very argument. These include proposals concerning the European asylum system, the reception of asylum seekers, the enforcement of expulsion decisions and the issue of legal channels. When it comes to students' and researchers' opportunities to stay in Sweden, the rules have been extended. The conditions for foreign students to stay after completing studies to apply for a job or examine the conditions for doing business are now better – this is to increase Sweden's attractiveness. The committee also notes that a new directive has been adopted within the EU with rules on entry and residence for students and researchers from non-EU countries, among others. The Directive is now to be implemented in the Member States. In the Committee's view, this work should be postponed. With regard to the EU Blue Card, it is worth mentioning that a new Blue Card Directive is under way within the EU to repeal and replace the current one. The committee believes that this work should be postponed. According to the committee, there is no reason for Parliament to make an announcement on the amendment of foreigner's legislation. The government's special investigators presented in December 2016, in the report "Strengthening the position of labour migrants in the labour market", a number of proposals for measures to strengthen the position of labour migrants in the labour market. The report of the investigation also proposes that the Migration Agency should be given the possibility of direct access to certain tasks of other authorities and that the Government should be allowed to provide further regulations on the implementation of the Migration Agency and the reporting of the control of work permits. The Finnish Immigration Service is proposed to gain direct access to certain specified data from the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency if the data are needed for handling applications for certain residence permits and work permits or for checking such work permits. The investigator points out that direct access poses specific risks of an improper breach of privacy. The question of whether an authority should have direct access to information held by another authority should therefore be assessed by balancing the grounds for such access with the grounds for privacy that contradict. The issue of combating abuse of labour immigration rules must be taken very seriously. At the same time, it can be noted that the issue has been dealt with in a recent investigation and that preparation is ongoing within the Government Office. However, the issue of direct access, as the investigator points out, is complex, and the risk of privacy restrictions must be taken into account. Deteriorated conditions and conditions for labour immigrants, such as long processing times at the Migration Agency and increased risk of having the residence permit withdrawn due to minor mistakes committed by the employer, reduces Sweden's attractiveness and risks hindering the necessary migration of skills. We assume that the government will come back with proposals as soon as possible. An announcement on this issue cannot and should not, in our opinion, speed up the thorough preparation of the issue that we consider necessary. The forms, which may be considered to be mainly satisfied, should therefore be suppressed. Mrs. Old President! With this, I call for approval of the Social Democrats' and the Green Party's joint reservation 5 in the SfU17 and also for approval of the committee's proposal.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-23	Mrs. Old President! We are going to deal with a number of reports today. I will come back to the reservations I would like to express. Let me start by saying, however, that we are being seen today in this House in the light of the fact that 300 000 people have applied for asylum in Sweden in three years. That's a figure we've never been near before. In fact, it is the highest inflow per capita ever measured in an OECD country. This is partly due to a world in crisis. Many people are on the run, for good reason. But it is also because Sweden has been allowed a long time to have regulations, laws and regulations, which differed drastically on several points from what has been the practice in our surrounding world. What has applied in most other countries – such as temporary residence permits, dependencies for family migration that have worked in practice and medical age assessments for unaccompanied persons – were for a long time distant in Sweden. It's always easy to be hindsight. But I believe that the one-track discussion on migration, cross-border mobility and target conflicts that migration policy entails has been bad for Sweden. The consequences will frame Swedish policies for many years to come, perhaps not primarily in terms of migration, but rather in terms of integration. The big question is how to avoid repeating the failed integration policies of recent decades and instead create the conditions for more people to be able to get a job, get a place to live and build a future in our country. Mrs. Old President! The Finnish Immigration Service's prognosis arrived yesterday. 34 000 people are expected to apply for asylum in Sweden in 2017. It's about the same level as last year. This is, of course, less than during the most intense phase of the refugee crisis. At the same time, there are slightly more than those who have applied for asylum in Sweden compared to a ten-year section – the refugee crisis is excluded. We also still have problems with long processing times. There is also great uncertainty in Europe. Does anyone know today what the EU will look like in six months' time, or perhaps in six weeks' time? It is also clear that we have major problems on the housing side. The municipal placements aren't working. The most important reason for this is simply that it is built too little. It's too hard to build, and it takes too long. According to SVT's review from last year, only 4 of the 50 municipalities with the largest contingent for this year are expected to complete the year's allocation. I would like to emphasise that this applies in municipalities regardless of their political colour. We also learned that only the other day, when S-controlled Malmö is now in practice asking for an exemption from the legislation; they do not want to receive more new arrivals. I would also like to remind the government and the government parties of the agreement reached the other year between a large number of parties. It stressed the importance of simplifying the rules with a view to getting more housing in place. There have still been very few such proposals. The government points to the municipalities with the whole hand but in practice has hijacked their ability to deliver what the law requires. Here the Alliance has put together a large number of proposals on Parliament's table. Mrs. Old President! Now there are voices for Sweden to return to the policy that led Sweden into the crisis. It is said that the temporary law should be just temporary, a parenthesis. It is said that the only decent thing would be to let everything go back to what was before 2019. I think that would be a mistake. It would risk once again putting Sweden in a situation where we do not have control. During the most acute phase of the crisis, people had to sleep outdoors. People were put on buses without knowing which destination in Sweden they were going to go. Now we also have very difficult integration problems in Sweden. Almost half of all new arrivals work even one hour a week after eight years in Sweden. The responses of the Moderates to this are multifaceted. It is above all a question of integration policy. But some are also that Sweden needs a migration policy that is long-term and creates conditions, so that people can know what applies and what laws and regulations should look like in Sweden in a little longer term than just a few weeks. But there is also a need for a sustainable migration policy, in which we can actually cope with the integration of all the people who have come to Sweden. Mrs. Old President! The basis of migration policy is that those who have asylum reasons should be given refuge while those who do not have it should return home. There must simply be a difference between yes and no. Just as we will have more discussions on integration in this House, this is a debate which, unfortunately, we are still only at the beginning of. Yesterday, the Finnish Immigration Service also wrote the forecast for the number of people expected to deviate from the coming years. An already troubling situation became even more troubling. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that 51 000 new cases will be handed over from the Finnish Immigration Service to the police in the coming years. We already have around 20 000 expulsion cases today. In the last three years, 11,000 cases have been time-barred. It is, on a low scale, about 70 000 to 80 000 people. It corresponds to the size of a medium-sized, or perhaps even a little larger, Swedish city that within a few years risks being in the deepest of alienation. This is deeply problematic. It not only undermines confidence in migration policy; it also undermines the difference between yes and no. It will bring about a social vulnerability that we have never seen in this country before. Who takes responsibility for 70 000 – 80 000 people living in that shadow society? Who will take responsibility for the children who will be born into this? It's easy to be hindsight. But it is a problem that there has been an attitude in Swedish politics where it has been seen as inhumane to take hold of the emerging shadow society. It has not been dared to say that regulated immigration is based on the return of those who have no reason for asylum, otherwise there is no sustainable policy. Migration policy is difficult because it is about people. These are people who often find themselves in different forms of vulnerability. Many people have good reasons to go to Sweden, with or without asylum reasons. You want a better future. But to ignore the fundamentals of migration policy, the difference between yes and no, is not humane or long-term. Mrs. Old President! All international experience shows that to prevent such a shadow society from developing, one must do so even before the problems have grown big. When the problems are there, it's hard to handle. I question whether the government has the power and the proposals to reverse developments. We can see that the detention centres are not enough, that the immigration controls have fallen like a stone and that the return is not working. Last year, the police carried out only 3,700 errands. There were 4,000 cases that were time-barred. We are therefore prescripting more cases in this country than can be carried out by force. Moreover, the legislation announced by the government, which was due to be presented in March, is delayed. On the part of the Moderates, we have said that the most important thing in this situation is to be clear to the person in this situation. Life doesn't get easier because you go underground. Often, everyday life is only very difficult with overcrowding, vulnerability and exploitation. It is better and more humane to return home and be able to make use of the available return allowance. Then, of course, you are very welcome to return to Sweden as a labour immigrant. If this is to work, it must also be a consequence for those who violate laws and regulations. We have pointed out the importance of more detention places and more police officers who can carry out additional foreigner controls. We want the limitation period, which today is only four years, to be at least doubled. In this context, it is also a problem that red-green municipalities around Sweden provide support for people who have no right of residence. These are efforts that need to be made now to break the shadow society. If we wait, it will soon be too late. Mrs. Old President! Migration policy does not lack problems and challenges. It's about shadow communities, year-long processing times, running costs and we've mixed unaccompanied children with grown men at HVB homes and so on. At the same time, let me tell you what is not a problem. It is that it comes people to Sweden and works under orderly and reasonable conditions. Sweden is one of the richest countries in the world. We have a well-being that many only dream of. This prosperity has not been created by political decisions, it has not been created by central committees and it has not been created by the state or by authorities. The prosperity we enjoy has been created by one thing: people have rolled up their sleeves and worked hard for hundreds of years. They have plowed their land, they have worked in the mine or in the factory and they have cared for their home. This has continued into our time. Of course, these mines are still there, but at the same time they have been complemented by a large number of new jobs in sectors which, perhaps only ten years ago, we did not even know would exist. For several hundred years, Sweden has been the subject of labour migration. Sometimes people have left Sweden to go to America. There were 1.2 million people who went there in the mid 1800s. More recently, however, people have come to Sweden instead. Starting after the end of the Second World War, Finns, Yugoslavians and Greeks have come to Sweden and contributed their work and made our country an even better country to live in. The then alliance government carried out an important reform to ensure that Sweden has a modern regulatory framework in place. That reform was important. Today we can stop and note that Sweden has an attractiveness that can match many other significantly larger countries when it comes to highly skilled workers. In fact, it is very fascinating and something for which there is reason to be proud. But time has also caught up with us. All regulations must be maintained, and today it does not work as well as it should. We have a situation where we show highly educated workers – coveted and well-behaved people who work hard and pay taxes – because of minor errors that have often occurred several years back. It is not worthy of a country like Sweden. Of course, we should be tough on cheating, just like against other violations of the law. However, the fear that labour migration will challenge old structures, but also the image that has sometimes existed that labour immigration would almost by definition be synonymous with cheating and exploitation, has created new problems rather than solving them. Here we now have a situation that goes directly towards the ambition to make Sweden a modern knowledge nation, open to new ideas and growth. The Alliance parties have taken more initiatives to stop this madness. We have written questions and interpellations, and we have got a united social security committee to support the problem picture. But nothing has yet happened. We have also put a proposal on Parliament's table on comprehensive assessments that could offer a solution to this problem. I regret that the Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, have chosen to reject it. When I conclude my speech, I do so with the question: how many more hardworking people will have to be expelled from Sweden before these parties realise the size of the problem? Finally, I would like to call for reservation 41 in SfU15, for reservation 4 in SfU16 and for reservations 1 and 4 in SfU17.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-56	Mrs. Old President! I have listened to Johan Forssell's speech. He only paints a picture of our problems, but he does not have many suggestions to solve them. He mentioned that integration is a very important issue. I agree with that. He also says in his speech that it does not work with the municipal placements. But why not? If we look at this, it is clear that alliance-led or moderate-led municipalities turn down new arrivals – Danderyd, Täby and Nacka. Malmö, Södertälje and other S-controlled municipalities receive most of them through EBO. You do not want to abolish the EBO either. At the same time, Johan Forssell says that integration does not work. But integration does not work unless there is a joint reception. If integration is to work, the people who will have to be mixed with the other Swedes. Then social vulnerability will not be so great. What does Johan Forssell say about the fact that the municipal placements have not worked because some moderate-controlled municipalities say no? How do you solve this?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-59	Mrs. Old President! It is interesting to hear these questions. It's news to me if the government wants to abolish EBO. I haven't noted it yet. The government has been in charge for 31 months, and there have been plenty of opportunities to do so. If you are going to present this proposal, I have a number of questions, such as how the people who do not currently live in the EBO under the current housing shortage will find a place to live. But Yilmaz Kerimo will be happy to develop it a little more in his next line. In my speech, I presented several proposals for solutions. I thought I was very clear, not least about shadow society. I had five proposals, and there are five more proposals than I think the government has managed to present. I presented proposals related to labour migration and overall assessments. If you got paid every time the government handles a social problem in the form of an investigation or perhaps a coordinator, then we would all have been wealthy by now. I can see that the clock is ticking. The problems are not only still there, but they are increasing in importance. To then hear from a social democrat that we have not presented proposals when it is you who are actually running this country is very strange. Let me also talk about the municipal placements. We said very early that it will be necessary to actually slow down the lockout from the Migration Board for the simple reason that the number of homes is not sufficient, especially as a result of the lack of the necessary policy to enable this housing building. We suffered a great deal of criticism for this, not least in this House. And look what happens a few months later. In practice, therefore, the Social Democratically governed Malmö no longer wants to receive new arrivals. Let us be happy to discuss these issues. But start by cleaning up your own door.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-63	Mrs. Old President! Johan Forssell did not really answer the question of how to solve the issue of municipal placements that do not work. It does not work because some municipalities say no and refer to the fact that they do not have housing. But the same problem exists in all municipalities, but other municipalities have handled it. When it comes to Malmö now saying no, they do not say no to more refugees. They say that even EBO should be counted off when you are compensated. There are a lot of people living there, according to EBO. You want it to count when you get directions. On the other hand, Täby, Nacka and Danderyd, who are moderate - controlled, have said no just because they have no homes. That's no reason. It is typical that it comes from moderately-governed municipalities and not from S-governed municipalities, which have dealt with this. S-controlled municipalities have very many in EBO already. That is why it has not worked. But they've handled it anyway. However, this has not been done by the moderate-governed municipalities. There will be greater segregation when some choose to live according to EBO in only Malmö, Södertälje and Botkyrka. However, if all municipalities take joint and several responsibility, as we demand within the EU, in our own country, it would work much better. Integration would then also work better.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-67	Mrs. Old President! I think it's time for Yilmaz Kerimo to update his speech points a little. To take Täby as an example, Täby Municipality has just signed a major agreement with the Migration Agency to take over existing structures to provide housing for new arrivals. In S-controlled Haninge, however, they now want an exception from the municipal placements. It is the Social Democrats who rule there. We have already mentioned Malmö, where the Social Democrats are also in charge and where in practice they do not want more new arrivals via this legislation. It is therefore a little more complicated than that this would be about party paint, Yilmaz Kerimo. I will tell you what this is about: it is about the fact that the necessary rules to produce very many new homes are not in place in a short time. This is what the Alliance's parties said as early as autumn 2015 – that's why we got it into the agreement we made. Since then, very little has been done in practice on the part of the government. Together, the Alliance has presented a motion with concrete proposals on how to reduce the hassle and increase the possibilities to build in new situations, in new ways and with new structures to cope with this problem. The problem, however, is that the government parties choose to reject this. The question is whether it is not as soon as Yilmaz Kerimo who is guilty of the answer. If you really want to get these homes out in a short time, why do you not put forward proposals to produce them? And why do you reject the concrete reforms put on the table by the Alliance's parties?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-72	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by sending a message to the Social Democrats: if we want to abolish the EBO, it is perfectly acceptable to ask for the approval of our motion of 19, which is precisely about reviewing the EBO legislation and either abolishing it or enabling the municipalities to be exempted. Mrs. Old President! Today we are dealing with four reports in one. A report is about citizenship issues, one is about migration and asylum issues, one is about family immigration and one is about labour migration. We just heard Moderate spokesperson Johan Forssell say here in the speaker's chair that this is happening in the light of what has happened in recent years and – several times – that it is easy to be hindsight. I can stand here and proudly say that for me and my party friends it has also been very easy to be wise. It is not in any way strange that what has happened has happened, but it was in every way predictable. It may not have been predictable precisely when, exactly how or exactly what figures it would be about, but that we were facing a crisis and that the policies that were conducted opened up to the consequential effects that we have seen have been self-evident for a long time. There are even ministers in the current government who have expressed themselves in exactly this way. It goes without saying that if Sweden has a more generous migration policy than the other EU countries, we will also have a much greater reception than the other EU countries. This is only a small part of the policy that has been pursued and that has led to the situation that we have been in and are still in. Mrs. Old President! It has been a couple of very tumultuous years, to say the least, where the figures for the number of asylum seekers who have chosen to apply for asylum in Sweden have skyrocketed. It has also been a couple of tumultuous weeks. In the light of the super crisis in 2015, more and more parties began to swing, but in recent weeks – since we have been hit by a terrorist attack that claimed victims in addition to the terrorist itself – it has been even more strange to listen to the moves and statements of the other parties. All of a sudden, a lot of people are saying that it is a problem that we have such a large number of deviated people in Sweden – people who, after a rejection decision, have stayed in Sweden and have been in our country without legal rights to this. The Green Party itself has a mouthpiece that went out and said that perhaps more people should be put on the ankles who are rejected in order to reduce the number of people who can hide in our country illegally. It is of course a good thing that more people who work with politics and who are responsible for our country realise the obvious fact that laws and decisions must be complied with. However, I cannot help but think that it is both worrying and somewhat ironic that we, who have been pointing this out for a long time, have been accused of being populists and of bringing everyone over. It is intended for an act of terror in order for other politicians to realise that people should not reside in our country illegally. Is it only terrorists who should be expelled if they have an expulsion order on them? Is it only those who commit serious crimes who should not be allowed to stay if they do not have the right to stay? There are two different debates that have been mixed up, and I am fascinated by how this conversation has been conducted. For me and for my party, as I said, it is quite obvious: if we have rules, these should be followed. Where decisions are taken, they shall be followed. When we talk about protecting the right of asylum, we also need to look at what undermines it. Is it not the case that we are undermining the right to asylum if we are lax and leave people behind even though they have come here, said they are seeking asylum and were given a decision that they do not have asylum grounds? Then we allow the systems to be misused to be used as migration routes to our country – not to offer protection to them in urgent need and need of this. Mrs. Old President! We have already noted that the Migration Agency released its new forecast yesterday. I will immediately take the opportunity to correct Johan Forssell a little. He said that 51 000 cases are expected to be handed over to the police over the next four years, but these 51 000 cases are those where the case is expected to be handed over to the police and where the person is expected to depart. In addition, 20 000 more are expected to be transferred to the police in order to be expelled under coercion and thus unable to comply with our laws on their own and to respect our decisions. However, this figure is very low in relation to how many actually follow the decisions made. While I am talking about the forecast from the Migration Agency, I would like to take this opportunity to mention something about the 34 000 people who – as we heard earlier – are expected to come here this year to apply for asylum. This is a number of several. Scenarios have been presented with both larger and smaller numbers of asylum seekers. The range is from 22 000 to 45 000 asylum seekers this year. However, I would like to make it clear that the Migration Board points out that there is a great deal of uncertainty, not only about the fact that there is a wide range but also about the fact that the use of the migration routes that have been taken to Europe, which was slowed down when more countries introduced border controls, looked at the conditions for reception and began to gain control over their borders, is starting to increase again. The figures are starting to point up again for the number coming directly to Italy via the central route across the Mediterranean. We see that the figures for the routes around the Mediterranean are also on the way up. With regard to the reduction that we have seen, which has largely resulted from other countries taking up their responsibilities and having border controls, the Migration Agency points out that there is a great risk that the system will collapse once again. As the number increases, there is a significant risk that other countries will no longer be able, able or able to keep their borders and control migration. The reason I raise this is that no one should be able to argue that the Migration Agency did not warn, which has recently been popular to argue among the government parties regarding the reports that have come about how to deal with the situation in 2015. The Migration Board warned back then. The Finnish Immigration Service provided forecasts with clear information that these were uncertain forecasts and that there were many factors that could influence the outcome in different directions. Yet it is portrayed as not knowing, that it was not safe and that no one could foresee. Yet it is argued that it is easy to be hindsight and that we have been naive. The last I can agree with, not that we have been, but that very many in this House have been. Mrs. Old President! The Swedish Democrats have for several years put forward many concrete proposals on how to influence the migration flows to Sweden that take place in the name of asylum, under the pretext of seeking asylum, but which are in fact ways to move and migrate further from a certainly bad situation but not to seek protection urgently. We have talked about the importance of ensuring that the principles underlying the Dublin Regulation – seeking asylum and protection in the first safe country – apply. The other countries in the EU – and indeed outside – because it is not only Europe that can offer protection – must be pressured to take their responsibilities as the first place where people can reach security. The whole idea behind seeking protection and being granted protection where you are, such as the asylum system, is for people not to have to move. They should not have to move further than to a safe place. It is built for those places where there was already a large breadth, a large diaspora, that would be protected from continuing oppression where they were. They would have the right to stay where they were. The migration policies that have led not least to Sweden have led to the approval and acceptance of other countries escaping their responsibilities. Other countries offer such bad conditions that you have a race to the bottom, where people in need of protection feel more or less forced to move on. It also opens up the possibility of other people taking advantage of and connecting to migratory flows. If they don't come directly from the heat of battle, it's harder to trace back. That is why we have long processing times, long investigations and a lot of uncertainty. You can't really see where people come from when people move. Of course we'll help. We shall of course contribute to the reception via the resettlement system where there is a need for it. We shall help to ensure that those countries that are geographically close also have a capacity and are given the opportunity and support to be precisely the geographical location where people are protected. We should be prepared for, although it is very unlikely, that if a crisis happens in our neighbourhood we should be able to offer places, shelter over our heads, and demand help from other countries for the practicalities of this. We have for a long time put forward many concrete proposals with many references to exactly which regulations and international agreements give us the right to act and which give us the right to say: Stop, you do not take your responsibility, which gives us the right to say: This is not where people should seek asylum. Mrs. Old President! Enough about this at the moment. I would like to speak briefly about another issue in which there has been a great deal of swing over the last few years. In the election campaign, and not least in the election campaign for the European Parliament elections, a miracle occurred in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats had pointed out that we had problems with an organised begging in Sweden with people being exploited, people committing crimes and criminal networks living on this. Vips, if we point this out, there is no problem. There was no problem with begging in Sweden. There was no organized begging. It was impossible to ban poverty, they said. In recent times, more and more parties have again realised on this issue too: yes, it is a problem of organised begging. We have problems with people both exploited and exploited as a result of, again, non-compliance with the rules in force, a lack of controls and a lack of willingness to tackle the problem and act. One of the reservations I intend to endorse concerns freedom of movement within the European Union. We know that, unfortunately, it is often the case that a large part of the begging that we have in Sweden is the result of the fact that there are other countries that have been admitted into the EU that have not been able to take responsibility for their own citizens. These citizens come here instead of making a living through begging on our streets. This is a typical example of non-compliance. It is right as an EU citizen to go to other countries and stay there for three months. But we have no control over how long the people stay here. We don't have a registration that happens when they get in. They have to show that they are citizens, but then not much happens. They can stay here quite a long time without having it tried at all. We had previous checks, registration and registration requirements for EU citizens as well. It was removed as a result of an EU directive. Unfortunately, it often happens that the EU gives with one hand, takes with the other hand, and makes things worse in the end. In fact, that is all that is referred to by the committee when we say today that there is a need to reintroduce control, registration and awareness requirements on who is in our country, when, where and how. We stand by the fact that regulations and regulations are designed in such a way that they do not work and that they do more harm than good. When other countries have been able to ignore certain regulations that apply for a long time, Sweden can also argue that we need control. The system isn't working. I can also note that in the opinion of the committee itself it is said that there is an opportunity to reject at the border when EU citizens come here if they cannot show their identity. If they are not EU citizens, they obviously do not have the right to come here. This also applies if there is reason to believe that they will not be able to make a living or do right. Had I been naive, I would have hoped that the committee's position actually meant that it wanted more people to be rejected at the border. It is also a contribution to the government to ensure that such controls are implemented. Mrs. Old President! There are, of course, reasons when people are perfectly legitimate and welcome to move to Sweden. It can be about work, studies or if they find their love and find that Sweden is the country where they have the most in common and that they want to settle in. The Swedish Democrats make a huge difference between residence permits and citizenship. For us, it is obvious that if you want to stay in Sweden permanently and want a permanent right of residence, you should also strive to become a Swedish citizen. Then we should also enhance citizenship. It is a fundamental thought for us in our view of how to create fellowship. Citizenship must be enhanced. We have had this as a common thread, not least in our autumn budget last year and in subsequent debates. That's why I won't be long about it. I see that many are concerned, and I have already oversold my registered speaking time very much. I would like to point out that there is a huge difference between being here for a specific reason that allows you to be granted a residence permit – it should be able to be extended and evaluated, but it should still be bound to comply with the conditions that apply to this – and to have the unconditional right to reside in our country. It should be reserved for citizens, those who have fully embraced being Swedes and who see Sweden as their home country. Mrs. Old President! With this, of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats. But for time winning, I only ask for reservation 2 in SfU14 and reservations 19, 37 and 43 in SfU15.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-115	Mrs. Old President! I thought we should have a word on the only issue, I am sure, concerning today's report, which Paula Bieler did not mention in her speech, namely labour immigration. We have such a matter too. As I mentioned, we have a situation today, not only in Stockholm, but actually in many parts of our country, where there is a shortage of labour. This may seem strange when at the same time we have many people who have come to Sweden in a short time, but labour is not always directly interchangeable. In a modern knowledge society like ours, high demands are placed on having the right skills, the right education and the right experiences. This is something that affects all of us. Not least the major international tech companies and their decision whether to operate in Sweden or any other country affects the conditions for thousands of people. We have seen examples of this recently. There are several companies that have said that the current regulations threaten their survival here in Sweden. One example is IT technologies and IT specialists, where there are 20 000 people missing in the Stockholm region alone by 2020. At the same time as we have this problem, we now have a situation in which we show highly trained and sought after staff every week, in principle, because of minor errors in detail, which often lie several years back. Here, politics is very tight. Expulsion decisions are made almost mechanically and must be implemented at once. The Alliance parties have put a joint proposal on the table of the Riksdag on how we can put an end to this. I wonder why the Swedish Democrats, through their vote, contribute to the fact that today's problems can continue to grow?
i-97oVqKtJXLkNbmbYH3Yxwp	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the question! I can begin by saying that, as I hastily mentioned, work is a perfectly legitimate and often necessary, good and positive reason to go to our country. I can continue to agree with the description of the problem. It is absolutely a problem that too narrow a view of bureaucratic rules expels people with high skills that we need in our labour market. The problem is that, with regard to the proposals presented by the Alliance, as they have been put forward, it is a matter of being a little more generous in interpreting existing legislation to avoid the understandable holes that exist. But today's legislation is far too generous. We recently received a letter on a report on labour migration to Sweden. It clearly shows that the largest labour migration group to Sweden is berry pickers. We still have a large immigration of people into low-skilled occupations. The Swedish democrats have made it clear that we are behind the Blue Card Directive and that we want to reintroduce a proper view of need-tested labour migration. We will open up and enable people to come and work in the industries where we have skills shortages, when there are people who have this skills. But the alliance parties are putting forward proposals which are still based on the generous, general attitude that one should have the right to be here as soon as one can present a work permit, as it has become in practice. At the same time, it is also where we need to tighten the regulatory framework and have supervision. Thankfully, we condemn the government today when it comes to the need for further steps to be taken here. Unfortunately, until I see that the system is working, I am not prepared to open up to further liberalisation.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-126	Mrs. Old President! The picture that the majority of labour migration refers to simpler jobs or low-skilled labour may differ slightly. An analysis of the permanent permits shows that in the vast majority of cases it is rather high- or medium-skilled people who come to Sweden. Then, at least, I think it is a problem that labour migration has fallen overall. This is not a new phenomenon that I mention in a speech, but it is something that has built Sweden for decades – that people have been able to come to our country to work. One factor in which Sweden has distinguished itself in a different way compared to many other countries is that we have had a very low proportion of labour migration and a high proportion of asylum immigration. One can think a lot about what laws and rules one should have and whether these should be liberal or less liberal. But this question is whether you can make an overall assessment of the laws that exist or whether they should be interpreted with very sharp corners. That is what the issue is about. We are aware of the consequences of the current regulatory framework and its interpretation. Workers who are often highly educated can choose to have their field of work around the world. Is it in Stockholm that I should put down the bo stakes and earn a lot of money and pay a lot of taxes, or is it in London or San Francisco? People who want to be in Sweden and become part of Swedish society, at least for some time, may not, but they are expelled. I understand that there are differences of opinion as to whether it should be liberal or less liberal, but quite honestly: we cannot have it like this. While the alliance proposal is rejected, the problems continue to grow. The Swedish Democrats are complicit in this together with the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-131	Mrs. Old President! I can bounce back and say that I believe that the alliance parties are equally co-responsibility. There is no doubt at all in the Swedish Democrats if you are to be able to come here when there is a need base. As far as the EU Blue Card is concerned, we have made it clear that we fully support it. Perhaps one can at least consider starting by lightening up there and saying that it is today's situation that should apply if the conditions imposed by these laws – the EU's blue card or if one imposes some kind of control on the labour market – are met. Then old mistakes from previous employers should not be the basis for people being forced to leave the country as they are today. As long as you insist on covering the whole of the legislation, problems arise. Unfortunately, even among those who receive a permanent residence permit, we have a non-minor part that comes to low-skilled occupations where we do not need labour immigrants. It is a system in which I cannot keep alive and in which I cannot open up with a clear conscience to an even more comprehensive interpretation, not until we have proper checks on the ground at the other end. I'm going to say it again, I'm afraid. I am fully prepared to hold talks and look at how we can take a holistic approach, perhaps even put forward a committee initiative to get something arranged in place in a short time. Thankfully, we have the letter that will be discussed shortly. Perhaps we can reach a consensus there. However, opening up as a whole to all labour migration to make mistakes and then not having consequences, which could result from the wording and wording used by the Alliance, is not something that we Swedish democrats can support.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-136	Mrs. Old President! Today we are debating several of the Social Security Committee's reports on migration and asylum policy. These are issues that are constantly on the agenda and on which the Green Party is working a great deal. Sweden did more than any other EU country during the Great Year of Refugees 2015 to help people seeking protection. We did what the rest of Europe should have done. We took responsibility. The efforts of municipalities, county councils and civil society have been both crucial and invaluable. Last autumn's experience shows, however, that we need to do more to strengthen the capacity of the reception system and improve its establishment so that it works well both in times when there are many and in times when it will get. We also need to push for a system in Europe where all Member States take joint responsibility for receiving asylum seekers. The Green Party and the Government are working hard to streamline reception, improve establishment and shorten the way to jobs and studies for new arrivals. Early intervention is a key element of this work. Many efforts are already being made to ensure that those who have come to Sweden can now learn Swedish, educate themselves or get their previous education validated to enter the labour market. It is not a common history, skin colour, religion or ethnicity that unites us in Sweden, but it is the building of our common future. We in the Green Party stand by our belief in an open Sweden that welcomes people here. That is why it is our duty to build a society that can cope with what the world looks like. Sweden is now better equipped to cope with the establishment of those who have come to Sweden in recent years and for those who come to Sweden in the future. We have taken many measures that have improved establishment and increased reception capacity. We also have the strongest labour market in the whole of Europe. More people who come here on the run should be able to learn Swedish from day one and work from day one. The earlier we make it easier for people to learn Swedish and get their qualifications and grades validated, the earlier we give them opportunities to create contacts in people's professions and establish private contacts and networks. Then people also come to work earlier or start businesses. Historically, Sweden has managed to grow well. Two decades after the Balkan war, we see that those who applied for sanctuary in Sweden and made it their new home country have established themselves to the extent that there are more of them who are studying further at college than native Swedes. Sweden grew and created opportunities from a challenge. The development of these issues in recent years has been dramatic. The war in Syria continues. Chemical weapons kill civilians and children. The security situation in Afghanistan is deteriorating. People continue to flee from the dictatorship of Eritrea and from many other wars and conflicts around the world. At the same time, it is becoming increasingly difficult for people on the run to reach Europe. Not only has Sweden implemented a more restrictive policy, but it applies to many countries in Europe. Border controls, closed borders with Syria and a greater desire to close people on the run are the hallmarks of European politics. Therefore, it is extremely important that Sweden works to safeguard the right to asylum, to safeguard a legally secure and effective asylum process and good reception conditions in the negotiations on migration that are now under way at EU level. The Green Party is working to make the temporarily more restrictive policy that we now have in Sweden as short a parenthesis as possible in our country's history. The law came into being in a difficult political situation for our country. The EU abdicated from its responsibility for people on the run. The opposition pushed for a policy that went far beyond what international conventions allow. The reception capacity in Sweden was very strained. The law will automatically expire in 2019, and after two years a control post will decide whether or not there is a need for legislation in the last year. We think it is important that, both in the negotiations that are going on at EU level and in the discussion that is taking place in Sweden on migration policy, we safeguard fundamental rights for people on the run. Those who today do not have the right to be reunited with their loved ones should receive it in the future. More people in need of protection should be covered by the security that it means having a permanent residence permit and knowing that you can build your future here. Currently, relatively few people come to Sweden to apply for asylum. This is not because fewer people have a need for protection. Historically many people are on the run in the world. It also depends not primarily on what legislation we have in Sweden, but more on other external factors. Border controls exist across Europe and the EU's cooperation with Turkey means that fewer people cross the Mediterranean from there. It is important that we protect the Nordic passport freedom. When the temporary ID and border controls were introduced, the reality was quite different from what it is doing today. At that time, at most about 10,000 people applied for asylum a week, and the situation was very strained on social services and at the Migration Board. Now there will be extremely few asylum seekers to Sweden every week. Internal border controls have brought together enormous difficulties both for asylum seekers without valid ID documents and for border commuters in the Öresund region. The biggest impact is the identification checks that involve changing trains for passengers passing Kastrup Airport. This prevents asylum seekers without ID documents from entering Sweden. It is well known that the objective of our party is to return to free movement within the EU and that the practical difficulties for asylum seekers posed by the identity checks can be eliminated as soon as possible. We believe it is crucial that, while the temporary law applies, we also increase reception capacity and improve establishment. Long processing times in the asylum process are a major problem, especially for the individual who is forced to live in uncertainty about his or her future for a long time, which in turn may have a negative impact on the health and establishment of the asylum seeker. The fact that waiting for asylum decisions is made as short as possible is the single most important thing for a good start in Sweden The fact that short processing times has been an important priority for the Swedish Green Party in the government. In 2016, the Government increased funding to the Finnish Immigration Service to deal with the large number of asylum seekers. It was about both increased housing costs and that the agency could increase its capacity to register and test more applications and hire more staff. One of the biggest reforms during this parliamentary term that has been implemented is that all Swedish municipalities should now take responsibility and help with the reception of refugees. The aim is to achieve a more balanced distribution of the reception of new arrivals between the municipalities of the country, and that municipalities that have good conditions for establishment should receive new arrivals to a greater extent than before. It is extremely important to follow up on this so that it is fully implemented and that all municipalities really participate. We have also carried out extra efforts in trauma care. The occurrence of diseases requiring care when arriving in Sweden has been greatly affected by experiences, traumas and risks to which the asylum seeker has been exposed during the flight. This, together with separation from family members, entails an increased risk of mental illness. At the Green Party's initiative, the government has therefore decided to invest in healthcare and treatment for traumatized asylum seekers and newly arrived asylum seekers with SEK 40 million between 2017 and 2020. In 2015, around 35 000 unaccompanied minors arrived in Sweden. Sweden made a huge effort when so many asylum seekers arrived for a short time. People stood up and became good men for unaccompanied children, and people engaged in sports clubs that organized activities in accommodations. Accommodation staff and teachers have done their utmost to welcome the young lonely guys into the community. Now, however, we see how the concern is spread among those who have come to Sweden as unaccompanied minors and among those who work with unaccompanied minors in different ways. Age write-ups seem to be arbitrary, the rejections come on stream because many who came in 2015 and are waiting for decisions now get their decisions. Readmission agreements with Afghanistan and migrating between schools and municipalities make the situation very difficult, and there is great concern. In recent months, several suicides have been reported among unaccompanied minors in asylum seekers. It is therefore positive that several important changes for this group have been made and are about to be implemented. Age assessments will be more legally secure and will take place earlier in the asylum process. A new legislation that will soon be debated and voted on in the Riksdag will allow unaccompanied minors instead of receiving temporary residence permits and risk being rejected as soon as they turn 18, now be able to complete high school in Sweden and then have time to apply for a job and in that case be able to stay permanently. This is something that the Green Party considers extremely important for the safety and mental health of these children. The Government has also recently decided to establish a national knowledge centre for issues related to unaccompanied minors at the National Board of Health and Welfare. The aim is to disseminate up-to-date knowledge, successful methods and effective processes to the municipalities, county councils and responsible authorities that implement actions for unaccompanied children. We are constantly working on measures that can improve the situation of severely vulnerable groups. During this term of office, we have also strengthened the reception of municipalities by increasing the school column for asylum seekers, by establishing the form of housing support and by providing a lot of resources to civil society organisations to carry out activities for asylum seekers during the period of asylum. We will continue to work to improve the situation of unaccompanied minors, not least with regard to mental illness and the stress of being constantly relocated between housing, schools and municipalities. Finding a job is the key to a good and fast establishment in society. It is therefore positive that the question of how more asylum seekers can work from day one is being prepared at the Government Office. The Swedish Tax Agency has also, on behalf of the Government, made proposals that give the Finnish Immigration Service the opportunity to request so-called coordination numbers for all asylum seekers. The changes to the rules that will enter into force on 1 July 2017 will probably significantly facilitate the work of the Employment Service with asylum seekers. It is important that more asylum seekers have the right to work and that obstacles to asylum seekers' access to work are removed. The situation of migrant workers also needs to be improved, not least so as to reduce processing times and so that workers do not lose their residence permits due to minor errors made by the employer. Mrs. Old President! We are now continuing to fight for the EU's common migration policy to be based on shared responsibility and respect for the right to asylum. Last autumn we were able to present a positive proposal to many unaccompanied young people. This concerned the possibility of a longer residence permit for upper secondary school studies. We will hopefully be able to do this next week. We have also worked to facilitate family reunification by opening up to Syrians to be able to apply to be reunited at the embassy in Khartoum, where no visas are required for Syrians. The government has also set up an investigation into legal ways of seeking asylum in the EU. The deaths in the Mediterranean Sea continue, and higher walls or statements against third countries do not solve the problem, but make it worse as soon as possible. In particular, the investigation will look at what a humanitarian visa system could look like. The Swedish labour market is doing very well, as is the Swedish economy. The fact that many people have come here in a short time is a historic opportunity if their compendium is taken advantage of. Then we can make Sweden an even better country for more people. Several important steps have been taken, but much remains to be done. I support the proposals in the reports and our Amendment No 5 in the SfU17.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-172	Mrs. Old President! I have two questions for Maria Ferm. One issue concerns the subject that we discussed in these seats just now, namely labour migration. There, our two parties have a history of finding a consensus. We think differently on many issues, but this is one such issue where, together with the other alliance parties, we have actually made a big difference historically to enable people to come to Sweden and contribute their work to make Sweden a better country. As I have now explained a few times, probably that self-image we often have, is that Sweden has such an open regulation on this point, a little dated, when we now basically show people every week because of minor errors that have often been made several years back in time – good people who want to work here, pay taxes and are careful. This is a problem that has existed for more than a year. It is a serious problem, for it affects so many more than just these people. Since it is often a question of key competences, this is actually about Sweden's competitiveness. Here, on behalf of the Alliance, we have put forward a number of proposals. We have pointed in a direction that the government should be able to go in. As early as the autumn, we put these proposals on the table of Parliament. Then, quite frankly, very little has happened. There were no additional directives for the investigation, but everything seems to have been buried most in the usual machinery. We are still very far from a real solution to this very urgent situation. My question to Maria Ferm is: why does the Green Party, which is in the government, not take its responsibility and change today's reality?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-177	Mrs. Old President! This is a very important question. It is extremely important that Sweden has an open labour immigration system that works well, where processing times are short and where people who are offered work with equal conditions as others who work in Sweden can also come here and contribute to society. This is something that is positive for Sweden's economy and for the individual who gets an opportunity. It is also something that has historically helped to build our country and will continue to do so. It is of course important, then, that we remove any obstacles that affect the individual in an unreasonable way and, for that matter, remove obstacles for companies to be able to quickly get the workforce that they need. I would like to say that Johan Forssell paints a conflict that does not really exist. We agreed in committee last autumn that we should get to grips with these problems. We have also made it clear that we are preparing proposals for the Government Office, which is about the investigation that came in December, and will proceed with an investigation to address the situations that Johan Forssell mentions, where individuals are affected because the employer has committed minor errors that are then discovered during the post-controls. Of course, this is something we need to correct. The usual order is not that proposals become a reality just because you vote through some motion in Parliament, but you have to do a solid preparation work by investigating the issue. Here there are many balances that need to be made. It is a question of finding a system that can solve this but cannot be misused at the same time. That's exactly what we're planning to do. I very much hope that it will be in place as soon as possible, because this is a very important question.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-180	Mrs. Old President! I do not really know how to interpret this statement that things are not getting better just because we are voting through motions in Parliament. Nevertheless, I imagine that the decisions we take in this House have a real impact and that is why we are all here and are contributing to our work. I live in that faith. I have no doubt that the Green Party has fundamentally good intentions. We have made agreements together historically. But it is a little sad to hear the Green Party with the Social Democrats, who for a long time have had a very sceptical view of all forms of labour immigration, stand and defend a system that does not work and talk in vague words about that there might be an improvement at some point in the future. That investigation was never set up. Then came a new investigation looking at the questions, but the days turn into weeks and weeks to months. This government's view of labour migration is very clearly described in the investigation directives issued in the summer of 2015. It is explicitly stated that the investigation should look at the degree of exploitation on the Swedish labour market. As you ask, you get answers. Why, Madam President, does this government never think about the following question: How will our country become more attractive for people to come here and work in? Why do I never hear anyone ask that question from the government? Why is this aspect never highlighted? There is only talk of cheating, exploitation and people who get hurt. I do not doubt Maria Ferms's intentions, but I note that the system that the government, together with the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, are holding under their arms is not working. In practice, this means that people who want to work here, pay taxes and do the right thing must leave the country anyway. I do not think it is worthy of a knowledge and growth nation like Sweden.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-184	Mrs. Old President! The system we have now, with the controls being carried out to ensure that you get the same conditions as others who work here, was developed by the previous government in cooperation with the Green Party. The previous government included your party, Johan Forssell. It is therefore a regulatory framework in which we have all been involved to some extent, and we all have the same interest in ensuring that it is as good as possible. I would not say that the plan for the future is vague, quite the contrary. There was an investigation in December. There are suggestions prepared at the Government Office. What is not covered by this investigation will be further prepared in a new investigation, so that we can present proposals to the Riksdag. I did not say that it is not better for motions to be voted through in Parliament, but that they do not make them happen. After all, we need someone to prepare the proposals so that we can come back with legislative proposals. That's how the process itself works. I am absolutely sure that will also happen. Then I think there's a point in what Johan Forssell says – as you ask, you get answers. In recent years, the debate on labour migration has strongly lined up to be problem-oriented and focused on the use in different sectors. We know that there are specific sectors where exploitation is taking place and there are poor conditions, whether it is labour immigration or not. You have to get to grips with it. But it must also be ensured that we have open labour migration and that we have transparent rules, so that workers that businesses need can quickly be brought here. But I think it's a little dishonest to paint this conflict. What is perhaps positive about this is that the previous speeches from Johan Forssell that the refugee crisis is not over seem to be on the shelf. I'm glad, because I was a little tired of that.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-189	Mrs. Old President! Then I will have to start by disappointing Maria Ferm, because I will continue to talk about the refugee crisis that has been. There have been two reports in recent months, one on the initiative of the government itself and one from the National Audit Office, on what lessons can be learned from what happened in autumn 2015. And it is not without my wondering what lessons the Green Party has learned. We have been reading and hearing for a long time, in fact, ever since more or less coercion was imposed, depending on the situation, that it should be removed as soon as possible, that we should go back to what was before. The new legislation is to be introduced by 2019 – it is a temporary one that applies until then – and the Green Party is clear that it wants to remove it even before then. As I was in my speech and as Johan Forssell also mentioned in his speech, the new updated forecast came from the Migration Agency yesterday. It clearly says that there are still a great many risk factors that could lead to a sudden postponement of the number of expulsions of persons seeking asylum in Sweden. Looking at the figures that are falling, one might at first glance think that we do not have such a big problem anymore. Then we are talking about the number of cases closed and settled, the number of expulsions carried out and so on. It is not because fewer people will receive a refusal and an expulsion order, but because they are unable to do what they have planned for. That's why I'm confused. Sure, the situation is not the same as it was in 2015, but the problem remains. We still have very large capacity shortages as a result of the large reception. What has the Green Party learned?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-195	Mrs. Old President! The conclusions that we draw after the great year of refugees in 2015 are that Sweden needs to increase its reception capacity, make it more flexible and improve its establishment, and that we need to work hard for joint responsibility within the EU. And that is exactly what we are working on. In my speech, I mentioned many initiatives and major reforms that the government has carried out precisely to improve establishment, such as the ability of people to validate or supplement their education more quickly, to further train themselves, to learn Swedish, to enter the labour market and to contribute to society. I believe that this is crucial, and it is important to be able to improve in this area. But we have implemented a lot, such as fast track and new validation systems – in many different areas simply. It is important that the whole of Sweden is involved and contributes, that we jointly take responsibility for the reception of refugees. I think that is also important in the European Union. There, Sweden is working to ensure that we have a situation in the future in which all EU Member States are involved and help to receive people who are on the run, because people will continue to flee. The alternative is not to abandon human rights or to say that people are not welcome, but to take joint responsibility and can help more people. I believe that this makes the system more sustainable and that we can gain an understanding in all Member States because we need to do this when the world looks like it does. As you say, it is a very changing reality. All we can be sure of is that there will always be a risk of war and conflict and that people will have to flee for their lives. Then we need systems to handle it.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-200	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer. I agree that we need systems to deal with the situation that arises at regular intervals around our world, unfortunately, where people are forced to flee. However, the way in which the systems are to be designed is clearly not something on which we agree. I almost got more questions during the answer than I had before. Maria Ferm talks a lot about the various reforms that have been implemented. The problem is that they have had no effect at all. It sounds nice that we have introduced the possibility of different jobs, such as standby jobs, but most of them have been employed by the Employment Service itself. It has not succeeded in encouraging real new jobs to enter the labour market, as is often said. It's not working. Yesterday a report from the Nordic Council of Ministers was released. It sounds a bit like the debate article the Nordic Council of Ministers wrote when you listen to Maria Ferm, that everything will be fine and that we will solve this if we increase capacity, if we get people into the labour market and if they learn Swedish. However, there are no concrete proposals on how to implement this and no evidence that it will work. So far, nothing has worked. It was obvious – as was the Green Party – that due to the lack of capacity there was a need to reduce reception in Sweden, at least temporarily, in the autumn of 2015. That is the only way I can interpret that the changes that have been made have been accepted. At the same time, one of the proposals that Maria Ferm highlights is that more municipalities should receive refugees and support the enforced legislation. Centrally, they say: You must receive this many. If one realises that there is a capacity shortage at national level, I wonder whether one understands that it is of course also at municipal level.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-206	Mrs. Old President! I think that Paula Bieler paints a directly incorrect picture of the establishment. On the one hand, there are a great many reforms that have been implemented, and on the other hand, nothing has worked. It is a picture and a myth spread by different parties that the establishment would be a great disaster. Always when there are large groups of people on the run you worry in the first few years, but it often works quite well in the end. It doesn't automatically. Clearly, political action is needed, and people need to be able to get into society in a good way. But it usually works. In international comparisons, Sweden is at the top of the list when it comes to establishment policy and how people enter society. I think it's a little bit about our view of society's ability to develop and improve. I would say that the Swedish Democrats belong to a movement that has given up on Sweden, which does not believe that we can grow and develop in a good way and who do not believe that we can jointly move Sweden forward and take big steps into the future when it comes to people's opportunities to contribute to innovation and entrepreneurship. You'd rather look back and try to play on people's concerns and fears. I think that's pretty scary. I believe that what is needed now is rather political movements that believe in their own ideology's ability to deal with the challenges we face. That is what is needed, otherwise we have lost quite a lot.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-210	Mrs. Old President! We live, as most people by now know, in a globalised world. Markets and labour markets are becoming increasingly borderless. Our future society needs to be shaped on the basis of the knowledge that people do not live in one place or even in one country throughout their lives. Already in the short term, there is a need for reform-oriented policies that can cope with increasing migration in a sustainable manner. More people migrate to seek protection from war, terror and oppression, but also for work or study, for love or simply to seek a better life. Modern migration is often circular. You do not just move from one country to another to stay permanently, but often move on or back to your country of origin. This is linked, among other things, to technological and economic developments. In many ways it's good. At the same time, more people are on the run in the world than ever before. There too, the number continues to increase. And many of the worst trouble spots in the world do not seem to fade. Most have fled within their country or to a neighbouring country, but many have also moved on to Europe. The Mediterranean route is deadly, and it is still lethal, although fewer people are now coming to Sweden. In 2016, 4,913 persons died in the Mediterranean Sea. There are more than it has ever been – regardless of any promise that this would decrease. We need to create safer systems that steer from dangerous journeys to legal routes with more quota refugees, more scholarship solutions, labour migration and other legal ways of travelling safely and safely. At the same time, we see political counter-reactions and more solitude. More border barriers and walls are being built up. Restrictive policies are expensive in both economic and political and humane terms, and there are plenty of deterrent examples around the world. Australia's refugee camp in Nauru has been lined with sexual abuse, violence, malnutrition, and self - injury. US border controls cost more than all other law enforcement authorities. The EU's agreement with Turkey gives an autocratic regime increased power over Europe, and we can see in what direction Turkey is going right now. A restrictive approach is costly and extremely difficult to reconcile with human rights. The Center Party stands for openness, and we continue to strive for freer mobility. But it must be done in a humane and orderly manner. There are limits to how much an individual country can do. Let me say it again, because I can imagine that I am getting lines on exactly this: there are limits to how much an individual country can do. As long as immigration costs reception, there will be a balance that each country must make. One way to alleviate the problem is, of course, to strive to reduce costs and improve establishment. When the government defends all costly benefits but denies people their right to seek protection, we in the Center Party protect the right to seek protection but not all benefits. That is our way in this. For us, it is important to safeguard transparency and humanism. We stand up for the right to seek protection, the right to family reunification, security for asylum seekers and effective integration. We see migration as something fundamentally positive. At the same time, we are not turning a blind eye to the problems that exist or the major reforms that are needed. Much of this, including integration and establishment, is dealt with in other committees. But even in our area, in the Social Security Committee, there are things to deal with. The government's policy has severely limited family immigration and means that many families will not be legally able to reunite for several years. Family immigration is one of the few legal routes to Europe. It is of great importance for humanitarian reasons. Families divided as a result of war, conflict and oppression must have an opportunity to live together. With increasing globalisation, where more and more people have loved ones in other countries, family immigration is also increasing in importance. We in the Center Party want to replace the strong restriction by a more humane reform which nevertheless goes in line with the migration agreement concluded between the Alliance and the Government in autumn 2015. Several have spoken about labour migration. This is because the situation in this area is acute at the moment. Labour migration is an asset for Sweden's skills supply, for society's economy and for the competitiveness of companies. In addition, labour migration means a safe way here for people who have the opportunity to contribute with skills, knowledge and important work. It is no loss for Sweden to make it easier for people who can make a living to stay in the country. For us, it is extremely important to act against any proposal that would make labour migration more difficult. These are still untenably long processing times, the rules are complicated and minimal deficiencies can lead to expulsion. Yet the government has only put forward policies to make it more difficult. There are still no proposals to make things easier, even though it has previously been promised, both in committee and in the media, to do something about the situation. This is totally unacceptable. Thousands of hardworking people in this country are now in uncertainty and insecurity. A lot of them will be in touch with me. I get new emails every week about this. At the same time, more and more companies continue to be alarmed about the desperation of the situation. It's just getting worse and worse. Finally, I would like to raise an issue that is becoming increasingly urgent every day. Recently, at least four unaccompanied young people from Afghanistan have killed themselves. Many more have tried to commit suicide or harm themselves in other ways. Since last spring, the Migration Agency has written up many people of age according to previous routines. Those who have been considered to be over 18 years of age under this procedure have, as a result, usually received expulsion decisions. The National Board of Forensic Medicine has developed a more secure management, and medical age assessments have now started to be carried out on a large scale. That's good. With more and better knowledge of age assessments, the trials become less arbitrary and fairer than they used to be. However, many have already received their expulsion decisions according to the old legal uncertainty method. This means that there is a significant risk that minors who are in Sweden have been wrongly assessed as adults and should therefore be expelled. We in the Center Party want those who have already received age to be offered the opportunity to go through the more legally secure medical age assessment in order to reduce the risk of minors being expelled. We also want the age you had when the application was submitted to apply to decisions and that you should be allowed to stay in your municipality until the decision has gained legal force if you are under 21 years of age. We have an enormous responsibility in this House to increase the security and confidence of this group in the future. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for the time to come I only support the Center Party's reservation 2 in SfU15 and reservation 2 in SfU16, the alliance joint reservations 1 and 4 in SfU17 and the Center Party's reservation 3 in SfU17.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-224	Mrs. Old President! I have a question which I know I have asked on previous occasions but which I may not have always been quite clear about. There are many different aspects, so I will try to be as concrete as possible this time. It is really a two-pronged question. The first part is: Does the Center Party believe that there should be regulations for who can come to our country, or does it want completely free migration? As a result, since I assume that you are still in favour of some sort of regulatory framework, I wonder what measures the Center Party considers reasonable to take to ensure compliance with this acquis. And do you realise that as long as new amnesties or reliefs are introduced and, so to speak, it is possible to circumvent regulations, there will also be people who choose illegal and dangerous roads here in the way that is happening today? Precisely what regulations we should have is a separate discussion. Precisely what legal paths should exist to Sweden is a separate discussion. We don't have to discuss that right now. But does the Center Party recognise the conflict in considering, at the same time, that there should be a regulatory framework and believe that people can be stopped from taking illegal and life-threatening roads if, at the same time, they are allowed to remain even though they have come here for no real reason and without complying with the rules laid down?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-227	Mrs. Old President! I thought I was clear in my speech, Paula Bieler. I can be clear again. I know that even my party leader has been clear over and over again on the question, so you have probably heard the answer before. I guess you really know what I'm going to say. Of course, we believe that rules are needed. It needs to be arranged for people to come here. Of course, there is also a conflict in this. People will be rejected. There will be people in the country who do not even apply for a permit and who thus live in a shadow society or whatever you want to call it. These are incredibly difficult and complex issues – complex issues. We know that the entire asylum system is based on rules that will never be fully applicable to everyone. There will be people who lie through the system and thus get a residence permit because they have protection reasons, although they don't really have it. In the same way, there will be people who fall out and who do not get protection when they should have it. You need to understand that when you're working on these issues. Of course, the starting point is that those who have received a refusal and who do not have any other type of residence permit should leave the country. That is also the attitude of the Center Party. As far as the concrete measures are concerned, we have talked, among other things, about readmission agreements, or, as you mentioned, how to get other countries to shoulder their responsibilities. Every country has a responsibility under international law to receive its citizens, but many do not, above all not in a way that also respects human rights. After all, we have seen many cases where countries directly take people into custody when they come back simply because they have sought asylum elsewhere and sometimes abuse or murder them. So there are difficulties here in many different ways. We have also talked, for example, about more resources for the border police. I can come back with examples of more measures in the next line.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-233	Mrs. Old President! As I said in my question, I really know the answer to my first question. But the reason why I ask this is that you often hear, not least when Johanna Jönsson presents the Center Party's view on this, that it is enough. If we only have more legal ways into Europe, no more people will cross the Mediterranean, risk their lives and die. That is my starting point. Of course, I see the same problem. It is an enormous tragedy that we see, but I firmly argue that it is the laxity of this side of the Mediterranean, where it has made it profitable to get here despite the fact that the laws that exist are not being complied with, which makes people actually take the risk. Often we hear that no one gets into a rank boat if you really don't have to, but that's not really the case. Where the limit is for what you feel is really having to be liquid. It is a rather privileged way of expressing oneself, I believe, because we do not always understand and are able to see how great the welfare gap exists between our part of the world and the countries on the other side of the Mediterranean. That's the conflict I'm after. As long as we have rules, there will be people who are not covered by them and who realise that we, thankfully, have very good conditions here and who want to get here. As long as you leave space by having different amnesties, not having hard enough controls and so on so that they will not be able to circumvent the regulations we have, they will unfortunately also choose that way. Then I wonder how the Center Party's concern that no one should go that way and that no more will die on the Mediterranean goes along with the continued desire for various reliefs even for those who have come here and have not actually shown themselves to have asylum reasons.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-238	Mrs. Old President! So we're talking about pull effects now. We are fully aware that there are pull effects. It is not something we deny in any way. Among other things, we have talked about how welfare systems need to be changed in order to reduce pull effects but also in order to reduce costs. We are fully aware of this, and I would say that we are one of the parties which has produced the most proposals in this particular area and which are aware of this problem. This is not just about people who do not have protection reasons, but also about people who have protection reasons but who go to the country where they get the best conditions. That's how people work. That's exactly what you and I would do if we needed to go somewhere. This therefore includes both of these groups. In order to achieve a more even distribution in Europe, we need to look at this but also at those who do not have protection reasons. Of course, they need to be redirected to other roads. It is there that you are trying to remove, namely the low-skilled labour migration, which is very important for them to see that there are other possibilities than coming this way. That's exactly what you're doing. There is no contradiction between this and having legal roads; on the contrary, legal roads are a way of getting fewer people to come via the Mediterranean and via refugee smugglers. Refugee smugglers fatten criminal organisations and contribute to a great deal of suffering in different parts of the world, and when you come to Sweden you end up in a shadow society that is harmful to the individual but also to society at large. I can't see the contradiction there. On the other hand, when I hear Paula Bieler talking about amnesty, I think there is some sort of confusion here. We have not proposed amnesty for persons who have been rejected and who do not have grounds for protection. I don't really know where that view comes from. If you mean that we want to offer emergency medical care to everyone who is in Sweden, it is because we do not want people to lie down and die on the streets. We don't think it's worthy. So I don't really know what amnesty you're talking about.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-242	Mrs. Old President! I apologise if I will suspend my speaking time. It's just as well to say it before you've gone over time instead of after you've done it. I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 4 under paragraph 1 of report No 15 by the Social Security Committee, which is called Migration and Asylum Policy. I would also like to support the two alliance reservations 1 and 4 in paragraphs 1 and 4 of report No 17 entitled Labour immigration. We in Sweden will conduct a humane and sustainable refugee policy. This means that people who are on the run from war and persecution and who seek shelter in Sweden and have protection reasons should be protected here. At the same time, we must pursue a migration policy that is sustainable and works so that the people who are allowed to stay in Sweden have an honest chance to be in this country – that there is the opportunity to get a job, that the school works, that there are interpreters, that social services work, that housing is built and so on. We have conducted an immigration policy in Sweden that is very different from immigration policy in other countries around us. The 2015 refugee crisis showed very clearly that for a small country like Sweden it will be very difficult to do so, almost impossible, in the long run. This means that we need a common asylum policy in the European Union that takes joint responsibility for helping the people in need. We also need better integration and a better reception system in Sweden so that people who come to Sweden and get to stay here also feel included and can build a future here. In this, of course, the people who are not allowed to stay will have to leave Sweden. If people do not do it voluntarily but go underground, we need tools in Sweden to be able to carry out expulsions, also ultimately with coercion. We can also have a common asylum policy in the European Union. It has long looked like extreme racist and right-wing populist forces would blow up that work, but now it seems that it can actually finish, which would be very good. But it also means that Swedish migration policy will be limited in that we will not be able to push through certain things and change our policy in any way. However, the added value of the fact that all 28 or in the future 27 Member States of the European Union actually have a common responsibility is very great. In addition, Turkey's agreement and the attempt in various ways to influence the government or the various actors governing Libya to close down what is the southern Mediterranean route into Europe. That is a policy for which I am concerned, let me say, because it means that many people who have refugee reasons and protection reasons will find it more difficult to get to Europe. As a result, Madam President, there are two things that are important for a country like Sweden in this. One is that we must understand the importance of setting up and receiving refugees for resettlement, so-called quota refugees. These are the people who currently exist in Lebanon or Turkey, for example. These are people who have fled Bashar Al-Assad's gas attacks in Syria and people who have fled Daish's beheadings. Being able to receive more quota refugees in this way is important because it is a legal way to get to Europe. It's an orderly way of accepting people. This means that our municipalities will have better planning conditions, and that means that we can help women and children. This means that we can help the most needy and relieve the countries that are close to crisis areas. This could be Kenya, which has a very large group of Somali refugees. This could be about Turkey, which has a large group of Syrian refugees. That's one thing. We have worked from the Liberals to ensure that Sweden receives more quota refugees. Sweden will now receive 5 000 quota refugees by the end of this term of office. We think it is a good thing; we have worked for this. I would like it to be further developed. The second, Madam President of the Age, which is important in view of the enormous tragedies we see in many countries outside Europe – in the Middle East, in a number of Arab states and so on – is that we cannot accept that the United Nations aid agency is chronically, systematically and year after year underfunded. It drives further people on the run. It triggers new emigration. We are talking about the World Food Programme, the UNHCR, the UN humanitarian coordinating body Ocha and so on. These agencies cannot systematically receive support that represents only 50 to 60 percent of their annual needs. It's causing epidemics in camps. It is driving a variety of humanitarian situations that mean that people do not see any future and get into boats across the Mediterranean, where they are at risk of dying. Having said that, Madam President, since last year Sweden has a much more restrictive refugee policy. We Liberals broadly support this, but we have some objections. Our main objection is that the temporary residence permits that Sweden now has are so short that it becomes difficult for the people who get their residence permits extended and extended and then stay in Sweden to get a reasonable, functioning integration. It is hacked up so that the efforts made for new arrivals last for two years, but the residence permits granted only last for 13 months. It makes it difficult for people to enter the labour market, learn Swedish and so on. Our second objection is that the new legislation has made it very difficult for families with children to reunite. This means that the legislation we now have contributes to family fragmentation. This is particularly remarkable in view of the enormous tragedy we are seeing in Syria today. It is also the case that Sweden needs a migration policy that means that we can meet the challenges we face. I would now like to raise two points that are particularly important in this regard, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. One concerns the people who come to Sweden to work here but who then do not get their work permits extended and are sent out of Sweden. For example, it is good IT engineers who work for technology companies in Sweden. They come here and work here for a number of years, but when they extend their work permits, our authorities say no because of details and less misses from a former employer. This is completely unreasonable. This means that people who choose between working at Spotify in Stockholm and perhaps at Apple in San Francisco, high-performance workforce that is very important for Swedish growth, don't know if they can stay in Sweden. These companies feel that the processing times at the Migration Agency are long, that it is an unpredictable process and unpredictable regulatory framework. That's completely unreasonable. We in the alliance parties – the Liberals, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party – have repeatedly highlighted the need for this to change. Unfortunately, however, we see that nothing is happening on the part of the government, and that is very regrettable. The last thing I want to mention, Madam President, is another risk that exists. The new temporary asylum legislation with very short temporary residence permits adopted last year by Sweden has created a lot of problems. The government is now trying to solve this by means of different types of exceptions and new rules – patches and laws the system. In the long run, there is a risk that this will be legally insecure. This means that people in the same family get different lengths of their residence permits. This means that people get very different assessments in the end. It doesn't make sense. We need a system that is legally secure and transparent and that people understand. There was a proposal from the Green Party recently – yesterday or if it was the day before yesterday. In this proposal, the Green Party says that you should not have to get a job in order to have a temporary residence permit converted into a permanent job without having enough to have a subsidised job. I think there is a very great risk in this, Madam President-in-Office. There is a risk that this will open up to corruption, abuse, fake employment and so on. Take, for example, the entry-level jobs. They can last for two years. They are 80% subsidised. If it is enough to get an entry-level job to get a permanent residence permit, I think it opens up very big problems with fake employment, corruption and much more. I know time is running out, so thank you for the floor.
i-CpznMTqS9hTW16C9EeduaR	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister Per Bolund and Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-268	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin. Saudi Arabia is one of the worst countries in the world in terms of systematic discrimination against women – a country where women are legally subordinate to men and, for example, not allowed to drive. This country has now been elected to the UN Commission on Women's Rights, which sets the objectives of the UN's work on gender equality and will ensure that Member States live up to these objectives. The so-called feminist government refuses to tell us whether Sweden has contributed to Saudi Arabia's entry or not. But it is in fact appropriate that the government, which advocated transparency in the UN, now tells the Riksdag and the Swedish people: Did Sweden vote for or against Saudi Arabia's entry into the UN Women's Commission?
i-N35g2KcafDiVFiwo4VJ3UH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tina Ghasemi, for the question. We agree with the honourable Member's description of Saudi Arabia. However, the UN is made up of all its Member States, and the regions often appoint their own representatives in various committees, which are then confirmed by acclamation at the UN Economic and Social Council. Saudi Arabia had been appointed as a representative in its regional group. How to vote is something that neither this nor any other government discloses publicly. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs intends to share this with the Foreign Affairs Council, as she has already said.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-273	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government does not disapprove of Saudi Arabia's influence with this response. As the government refuses to answer my very specific question, I find it difficult to interpret it in any other way than that Sweden has given its support to Saudi Arabia. Out of curiosity, I wonder: In what way does the government believe that a country that oppresses women can make a positive contribution to developing gender equality within the UN?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-275	Madam President, I would like We are indeed living in difficult times right now, and we need the UN more than ever. We also need effective UN work, and Sweden is an active member. No Member State reveals how to vote, because then it will not be possible to move forward constructively in these contexts. I would also like to note that countries such as Iran were also elected to these assemblies under the alliance government.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-277	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to put a question to the Minister for Development and dwell on the discussion about Saudi Arabia being elected to the UN Commission on Women. We have been told, in the Government's response just now and in various statements by the Government, that regions appoint their representatives, that they are elected according to the practice of acclamation and that no governments reveal how they have voted. But this too is a matter of practice and of asking governments around to respect this practice. As far as voting is concerned, the practice was already broken when a vote was actually requested on this. I wonder how this is compatible and how one sends a clear signal as a feminist government that one stands up for certain values, when one cannot even publicly stand up for the reprehensibleness of a country like Saudi Arabia being elected into a body that will work to strengthen women's rights around the world.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-280	Madam President, I would like Paula Bieler knows very well that a large proportion of UN Member States do not stand up for human rights or women's rights in the way we want to expect. This is the work that Sweden is doing at the UN, and then it is also important that we can have working committees and forms of cooperation. No country reveals how to vote, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that she will cover both how Sweden voted in this case and leave a long list of how previous governments have voted on similar matters. As I have just said, Iran and other countries have also been voted into the Women's Commission during the year of the Alliance Government. This is about the fact that we must actually have a functioning UN. We cannot decide over the members of the United Nations, but the regions must also be allowed to make their choices.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-283	Madam President, I would like There are certainly very many countries in the UN that have values and stand up for things that we cannot in any way think are reasonable, good or good and that violate various agreements and ideas on rights. But I still wonder: does the government realise the problem of beating their chests and making a big proclamation of a feminist foreign policy, but not even actively, strongly and clearly disassociating themselves from the fact that extreme countries are being elected into UN agencies?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-285	Madam President, I would like The Swedish government stands up for feminism and women's equality in all discussions, discussions and debates – not least in the long line of initiatives that Sweden takes for women to participate in peace processes, sit at the table and decide their own fate and have the right to a voice of their own in political contexts. Here we are crystal clear, and there is no doubt about it. We strongly reject regimes that oppress women.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-286	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. There are great hopes for the government in connection with the l andrural investigation. The overall objective is to provide citizens with a level playing field for working, living and living in rural areas. In order to improve access to well-being, culture and service, it is proposed to provide a level playing field for exercising and experiencing culture, regardless of the place of residence. A comprehensive range of culture and leisure activities and, not least, encounters between people of different backgrounds require surfaces that are modern, accessible and open to all. Meeting places in the form of public gatherings are mainly run on a voluntary basis, with the support of municipalities, the state and the respective associations. The question to the Minister is: is he prepared to give the assembly halls a role in the implementation of the Rural Committee's proposals?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very important question. As a rural resident, I am aware of the importance of meeting places in Swedish countryside. They play a very important role in the pursuit of culture but also in the pursuit of hobbies, meeting activities and more. The Committee on Rural Development deals with this area in its report on cultural activities. This has now been consulted throughout the country. We prepare these questions in the Government Office. Today, I cannot promise any further support. Today, there is basic support for associations, and there is also investment aid to improve assembly facilities. In any case, they are very important for rural development.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Unfortunately, the report of the Rural Investigation did not mention meeting places and meeting places at all. It may well be that the consultation bodies will press for them to be highlighted. It speaks of civil society, which has a role to play in the organisation of society. Many of the associations themselves have access to such premises. If this is required by the consultation bodies, does the Minister for Rural Development think that it would be justified to increase support for community organisations?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-295	Madam President, I would like As I said at the beginning, I know the importance of this type of premises being located in Swedish countryside. However, I do not want to anticipate the preparation that is now taking place in the Government Office on account of the many referrals that have been received. This may not have been directly touched on by the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, but it touches on the importance of civil society's opportunities to operate in Swedish rural areas.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-296	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. One can safely say that Sweden's economy is doing well now. Not least, new jobs are emerging, and 150 000 more go to work today than when the government took office. At the same time, we can see that developments are not evenly distributed across the country. There is no levelling factor for the new jobs. That is why the work of the government in this area is very important. I think it is particularly important that the government now does not lose momentum in relocating authorities and workplaces. I therefore wonder whether the Government could say anything about this work, how it is progressing and what we can expect in the future.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Leif Pettersson, for the question! When we took office we were able to note that we have had a long trend of centralization in the Swedish state, where the jobs have been concentrated in Stockholm. It's not good for the state and trust in the state. Therefore, we started a work that began with Statskontoret's survey, which showed that it was true that we had a centralisation wave. After this, we have started with the relocation of authorities. Unfortunately, I see that parts of the opposition are opposed to this. The Moderates, led by Anna Kinberg Batra, call this a replacement job. But the government's conviction is that we need to get better distribution of government jobs. We have already made decisions on the E-Health Agency and the Swedish Real Estate Authority, and today we decided to relocate a third authority, Statistics Sweden, to Örebro. This will continue throughout the term of office. It is part of the policy of relocation of government jobs. We also work with governance of the authorities in localization decisions. This is important for the cohesion of Sweden.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-302	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is a good thing if we can locate entire authorities, but in the sparsely populated parts of the country it may not be about whole authorities but more about maintaining the state presence in different ways. There are previous investigations and proposals here, especially from the time before 2006 when we were in government power. Is there anything there that we could bring up again?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-303	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have set in motion a work on getting the authorities in charge of localisation in order to take overall responsibility and ensure that the authorities take account of the regional presence when deciding on the location. We have stopped the Swedish Tax Agency's plans to close offices in nine locations, and I have been commissioned by the Prime Minister to work to increase the service presence around the country. D is we work with the concept of service office. This is an important work that the previous government has neglected, but changes must be made to maintain trust in the Swedish state.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-305	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Lövin about California. The Minister for Climate and Environment visited California last week and signed an agreement with its governor. President Trump has now begun to dismantle much of the climate policy that President Obama pushed through, but in the United States the various states have good opportunities to take the lead in this area. California is at the forefront of that work. My question is: what is included in the agreement with California?
i-6Eod45xJ5vB2j4dNtDK3Ts	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Stefan Nilsson, for the question! In fact, California is the world's sixth largest economy, and it is the United States state that has gone the furthest in the climate field, with its own emissions trading system and stronger and sharper emission rules. At the same time, you are an economy that is doing very well, just like Sweden. Sweden has, of course, come first in terms of climate policy in the evaluation that has been carried out by all 28 EU Member States. Our finances are going well. Our innovation pace and ability are very high, and Governor Jerry Brown very much welcomed my visit and our delegation. We have signed a cooperation letter dealing with innovation, research and exchange of business from both California and Sweden. In fact, we already had yesterday's visit here from California, which looked at Scania and met actors in Sweden to exchange experiences in the field of climate change.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-310	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. What effects, more specifically, can one imagine that we and this state can benefit from, for example, in terms of politics, research and business opportunities? What can we benefit from in Sweden, and what can California benefit from in such cooperation?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-312	Madam President, I would like I had the honour of opening a cleantech hub in San Fran c isco, where Swedish cutting-edge companies, innovative companies, have the opportunity to present themselves on the Californian market with climate-smart technology. Of course, we will also work in the climate negotiations with California and other climate leaders in the Under 2 Coalition, which consists of countries, states and cities that are ambitious.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-314	I have a question for Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. It is about the food strategy. The Liberals and other alliance parties, together with the government, have negotiated overall strategic objectives for a food strategy. We agreed at the time that food production should be driven by consumer demand. So far it's good from our side. However, with surprise, I have since noted that the government has left this common objective when it sets its action plan with a set of percentage targets for organic production and consumption. My question to the Government is: Does the Government think that it is reasonable for politicians to set targets of this kind, which are closest to the idea of planned economy?
i-VDZEkCiBjs8zENhV8c7Ryb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Tysklind, for the question! Consumers are asking for a lot of organic products. We had two consecutive years of almost 40% increase, and in the last year we had 18% increase. We in Sweden are far from self-sufficient on food as a whole. We have barely a 50% supply ratio, and in organically we lack much production. This government wants to respond to the demand of consumers, not least when it comes to the environment. Overall, the food strategy is about increasing the production of food. Our population is increasing, and demand is increasing. There is no need for less food, but for more. The government wants – and I know that the opposition also wants – food to be produced more in Swedish rural areas, both conventionally and ecologically.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. But I think the Government left the question of principle. Let me be clear. Liberals have absolutely nothing against organic production, but it should actually be driven by consumer demand. Is the demand for organic 100%, it is reasonable that the market adapts and has a production of 100 percent. That is not really the issue. I assume that the Government would see it as strange if this type of production target were translated into other areas, such as the number of lorries or something else.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-323	Madam President, I would like In the rural programme negotiated by the Alliance Government, which was not yet correct in mål, some 400 million had been set aside to stimulate organic production. Isn't Lars Tysklind behind what was then handed over? Then in this government we have seen that it was not enough. We have had to expand it to meet consumer demand. I am a little surprised that this issue has now been turned.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-325	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. The government has now made Sweden the country in the world where it pays the least to work an extra hour. But you're still not happy. It's supposed to pay even worse. Despite the election promises from the government not to raise taxes for ordinary people, ordinary people are made high-income earners, and they are taxed accordingly. It concerns three out of ten nurses, four out of ten midwives, four out of ten police officers and five out of ten train drivers. It is people who are really needed for Sweden to work. Why does the government want to make it less profitable for them to go to work? And how does the Minister think we're going to attract more people to these professions when it pays less to train?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-328	Madam President, I would like This government has taken a great responsibility to ensure that public finances are in order. We inherited a situation from the previous government where there were very large deficits – record deficits. This meant that we had to reform the economic policy pursued in Sweden, that is, we had to finance our reforms to the full. We've succeeded, too. We have turned deficits into surpluses. Since the first year this government delivered budget results, and also in 2016, we have strong surpluses in central government finances. But this also means that we have to ensure that we get tax revenue. What is important in this context is that, for groups at the stratum limit, it may be about a couple of crowns a month, that is, it is very small and marginal changes. To paint it, as the opposition is trying to do, as if it were to decide whether to choose to train or not, I must say, is directly unserious. Do not try to frighten an opinion on this matter! In fact, these are very marginal tax changes. There the opposition should be honest.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-330	Madam President, I would like What if it was so easy to raise taxes always gave more money? Then we could have 100% tax. But it doesn't work that way, but the tax rate plays a role in people's willingness to work more. We lowered the taxes. Nevertheless, income to welfare grew by 26 per cent in municipalities and county councils. It was because it paid better to work. That drive must not be forgotten. It's very worrying if the government does.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-331	Madam President, I would like Even when it comes to history, I think you should try to be honest about what it has looked like. The reason for the increase in income for the well-being of the former government was that municipalities increased their municipal taxation to a very large extent. In practice, the previous government actually changed taxes from government taxes, which are also progressive, to increased municipal taxes. This made many more pay more, especially those with low incomes. It also increased the economic divides in Sweden during the time of the alliance government in power, unlike now that we can look forward to narrowing economic divides.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-333	Madam President, I would like My question is to the Minister for Rural Affairs. The growing stock of wild boars in Sweden causes enormous damage every year, which is devastating for farmers and other rural traders. The farmers pay the highest price, with cultivated fields and grasslands and great damage resulting from it. The costs exceed 660 million each year. Wild boars also account for a large number of wildlife accidents in traffic. That's about 3,000 every year. In addition, many homeowners have huge concerns with piled lawns. In the summer of 2016, the government submitted a proposal to regulate game feeding. The proposal had a lot of flaws and was rejected by the Riksdag. My question is whether the Minister for Rural Development will come up with a new bill in the near future.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-337	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. This is a very important issue raised by Magnus Oscarsson. Swedish agriculture suffers very hard not least wild boar damage due to, among other things, feeding during the vegetation period. The government presented a comprehensive – note that it was comprehensive – bill to limit feeding during the vegetation period. Unfortunately, the Alliance, together with the Swedish Democrats, rejected this proposal, which could have made it possible for us to overcome the enormous damage suffered by Swedish agriculture.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer! The Christian Democrats have several proposals for measures that the government should take into account. This concerns, for example, the regulation of the feeding of cloven-hoofed game in accordance with an LRF proposal. Other proposals concern the possibility for hunters to sell wild boar meat and regulatory simplifications in order to be able to hunt more. Wherever I go in Sweden I hear the same thing: Come on! Come up with a suggestion! In fact, what is important is that we take the necessary political decisions to reduce the feral pig population.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-341	Madam President, I would like I just mentioned the bill drawn up by the government. It was to create order and order in this. I am very pleased that Magnus Oscarsson is now committed to the issue – better late than never. I hope that what Magnus is now raising is also the case of other bourgeois politicians who stopped the government's bill, which causes farmers to suffer very badly.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-343	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin. The New York Sea Conference will begin in June. It is a conference that Sweden has been involved in taking the initiative to. One of the main themes of this conference is the sustainable management of marine resources. It's really important. At the same time, however, the EU has about fourteen fisheries agreements with poor countries, mainly in Africa. Although some changes have been made to these agreements, I would say that the basic problem is that large sums of our tax money are spent on enabling European fleets to drain fish from the African seas. It is as far away from sustainable fishing as can be achieved. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is prepared to raise this issue at the conference and to work for all this money to be spent on developing locally sustainable fisheries in these poor countries, which so badly need it.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for this important issue! It is indeed a complicated issue, which I have been very involved in during my time in the European Parliament when I also looked at the reform of precisely what concerns the European vessels fishing in the waters of developing countries. One might think that the easiest thing would be to just remove this. The problem is, all these ships wouldn't disappear. They would still be fishing, flying a private flag and under private contracts. Then the EU or any other transparency as to how much is being fished. That is why I put all my weight into ensuring that these agreements are as public as possible and also under as much control as possible, so that we know that the fish you fish is just a surplus of fish, which the local population does not need. It is also a question of providing support for local fisheries management. I think this is a model that other countries should follow.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-349	Madam President, I would like Under these fisheries agreements, we can see that about seven times as much money is paid to European fleets so that they can drain African countries of fish that they pay to develop locally sustainable fisheries. This is about EUR 200 million paid out each year. Wouldn't it be better to work for all that money to be spent on developing locally sustainable fisheries? This could be highlighted by the Minister at the New York Sea Conference. Is the Minister going to do that? Yes or no?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-351	Madam President, I would like As Minister for Development, I have commissioned Sida to look further at how we can strengthen fisheries management and sustainable fishing through our assistance. It is also very important that we have transparent and transparent rules for fishing vessels and how much they have to report to authorities and also that developing countries have that capacity. This will be the focus of this conference. The EU's fisheries policy is something that we must pursue within the European Union, but here we also have active Members working for it.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-353	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country that drifts apart between the city and the countryside. The rural issue has been something that several governments have not taken seriously. Now we have a government that has set itself the goal of changing this. For the first time, a broad parliamentary committee has presented a broad programme of measures to find ways of keeping Sweden together. My question goes to Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, who has travelled around the country on a trip to Sweden. What ideas and reflections for the continued work to keep Sweden together have the Government?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-356	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I am currently making my trip to Sweden in just over two months, and so far I have visited 44 rural municipalities. What often comes up are, of course, job issues, not least in the green industries. It looks a little different depending on the type of municipality I visit. Sometimes it can be about agriculture, sometimes about forestry and so on. One issue that always comes up is broadband, that is, that we get broadband out to the Swedish countryside. Here the government has invested 5.5 billion in this programming period. I think that they may not be enough, but after that programming period more must be done. This government has, of course, adopted a strategy that means far more than before. We have said that in the short term 95% of the population will have 100 megabits, and in the long term – 2025 – everyone will have high-speed connectivity.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-360	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My next question is: what is happening to the work of the Rural Committee, and how will the government carry on this work?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-362	Madam President, I would like We have more than 400 referrals, and the work is now being dealt with in the Government Office. The Government intends to present a proposal until 2018, but we also deal with some of the proposals that are available immediately. These include housing loans in rural areas, which we have already presented to the Committee in the week following its report on a study on credit guarantees for housing construction. We have also worked concretely with government jobs, as the Minister of Civil Affairs recently reported.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-365	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Shekarabi. In the 2014 election campaign, the Environmental Party as well as the Social Democrats and the Left Party were very clear that we wanted to stop the pursuit of profit in Swedish welfare. All the surpluses made would mainly be reinvested in the operations. We stated very clearly that it is not a customer in relation to welfare but that it is a citizen. That is why it was very good that the government set up an inquiry into these very issues, and it has now come up with its interim report. This has been out for consultation, and after the round of consultations it is clear that the idea-driven activities, which are therefore not profit-driven, have problems. I would like to ask the Government how it intends to move forward in order to avoid the negative effects of the investigation's proposals on non-profit actors.
i-WQwaFVyjHrAKfkUH95JBUc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for the question! The whole starting point for the government's work is to ensure that we have a good diversity in Swedish welfare and school activities. The trend we see is that the idea-driven actors are disadvantaged by the market-oriented models that prevail in Swedish welfare. We have a lot of focus on the needs of commercial operators. We are expanding the resource allocation system on the basis of commercial logic, but the fact is that the idea-driven actors represent diversity, special orientations, and are important for us to have real freedom of choice. This requires the development of systems that are also adapted to the needs of the non-profit sector. Therefore, we are now studying carefully the referrals received, not least from the organisations representing idea-based companies. For us, it is important to increase diversity in Swedish welfare. We see a danger with regard to uniformity. It is groups that take over businesses, and it becomes a uniformity in welfare that does not benefit users' freedom of choice.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-373	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its very clear answer! It is clear that we have the same ambitions in terms of the ability of ideas-based activities to remain in the welfare field. Should I interpret the Minister's answer as continuing the work on finding ways to ensure that ideas-based activities are in a good position to continue their activities?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-375	Madam President, I would like Yeah. Today's system is not enough. We need to improve the regulatory framework for the idea-based sector. The non-profit sector faces many problems, both in terms of funding and continuity. We see that many countries in our vicinity have special models for the non-profit sector, for example regarding the financing of school activities. We really need to take these ideas in and give the non-profit sector better opportunities. This is the starting point for the government's work.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-378	Madam President, I would like I was pleased to note that Minister Karolina Skog struck a blow for the science in connection with this weekend's so-called March for Science. However, from questions relating to GMOs to questions of organic food production and pesticides, the government has come forward with proposals that directly contradict scientific expertise. Another example is that the government is putting on a great drum for action in the so-called Climate Q & A, where the government is unable to reliably account for the additional climate benefits that these state funds are supposed to provide. Knowing the effects of the measures taken should be the basis for an allegedly science-based policy. Otherwise, politics will only be reduced to a mere guessing game. In view of this, I would like to ask Minister Lövin whether this weekend's move will also be followed up by political action and a re-evaluation of the positions that the government has developed that directly contradict scientific expertise or are based on unsteady scientific basis, for example in the case of GMOs or organic food production.
i-LvdPVeF8sBT11qCV5YYPE3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, for the very broad question! I would like to question the claim that the climate life does not have a factual basis. We have a lot of data from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that says that the SEK 4 billion that is distributed in the Climate Centre and that goes to municipalities, county councils and the private sector will lead to annual emission reductions corresponding to, so far, 140 000 petrol cars a year. The climate is a success! I very much see the need to have a fact-based policy, and that is why we are very much in favour of the cost-effective action in the climate category – SEK 156 per tonne, not SEK 3 000 per tonne as Jonas Gjörtler has said several times in this House.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-384	Madam President, I would like The problem is a little bit how to count, and it is clear that if you count charging poles and support them 16 times you get figures that can look better than they might actually be. We have similar problems in other areas, as I mentioned, such as organic food production. Researchers at SLU have found that organic production is not healthier, no more climate-smart or better for the environment than conventional production. It would be interesting to hear whether the government is prepared to reconsider its position on these issues.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-387	Madam President, I would like There is no clear-cut research to show whether organic farming is better or worse and what different variables you weigh in to assess what is better or worse. What may be better for the aquatic environment or biodiversity may not be better when it comes to increased production or food containing more vitamins. In this context, an overall assessment must be made of what is best for the future. As has emerged from previous correspondence, consumers want organically produced food.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-390	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Bucht. I will never contribute to a road tax that makes it harder to create a bioeconomy. The quote by Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is taken from the news agency when the Government took part in a bioeconomic conference arranged by the Swedish Forest Industries. The question of the road toll, or mileage tax, announced by the Government of Löfven – Lövin is often discussed in the Chamber, not least in view of the expected very damaging effect of the charge on the Swedish basic industry, that is, the forest industry and the bioeconomy in particular. Does the Government still stand by the announcement he gave on Tuesday: I will never contribute to a road tax that makes it more difficult to create a bioeconomy. Does the Government stand by that statement in Parliament's Chamber today?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-396	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, although the quote is not correct. Nevertheless, I must say that the government has high ambitions to move to a bio-based economy. Sweden was once an oil-based economy, and we are now going to a smart bio-based economy that will mean that Sweden will be the first country in the world to become fossil-free. The ambition is for Sweden to become fossil-free by 2045. Then, among other things, forest raw material is an important parameter for getting away from fossil fuel. Taking counterproductive measures to obtain forest raw materials to be used to escape oil is not good. It's counterproductive.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-398	Madam President, I would like The quote is not correct, says the Government, but the Council of State Officer Skog made a retweet of the quote. Somehow there is a confirmation. I share the Government's view of the terrible effects a kilometre tax would have. In what way, then, does Minister Bucht help to stop the internal preparation that is currently under way within the Ministry of Finance, where the question was referred when Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson stopped the kilometre tax?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-400	Madam President, I would like First of all, there has been no proposal for a kilometre tax, but there has been a proposal for a road toll, which the government rejected. That is the specific case. Even there Anders Åkesson quotes wrong. It is important that Sweden gets away from oil dependence. Sweden has the potential to become the first country in the world to get away from fossil fuels. The country's surface area is about 70 per cent covered by forest, and few countries have the opportunity that exists in Sweden.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-403	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. I think everyone remembers the contribution of the Green Party to the political debate on the present begging. When the Swedish Democrats wanted to get to the organised begging, the Green Party thought that the expression organised begging was a racist myth. Thank you for your contribution, the Green Party. It has really helped vulnerable people – or not. The line of the Swedish democrats has been crystal clear. Exposed EU citizens cannot be integrated into their home countries if they reside in Sweden. Opening up our streets to an extensive begging creates the conditions for organising vulnerable people where exploitation and crime emerges. Lately, the government's own investigators the other day stated that the Swedish democrats' begging ban is still the best proposal to achieve a desirable change. Madam President, I would like Will we see more tears on the cheeks of environmentalists in the government when you admit another failure and give the Swedish Democrats the right to a begging ban?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-407	Madam President, I would like The vulnerable European citizens we see in our streets and squares need our support in every way, including through European social funds. The government also has an active programme to prepare employment for citizens and also to combat discrimination, which is why they are seeking out of the borders of the home countries. We also think that it is important to keep order and that local regulations should be followed. Private landowners who have seen settlements on their land should also be given legal certainty. The issue needs to be reviewed from several quarters. The basic problem is that people are vulnerable and discriminated against. Support shall be given to those who are to receive support.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-410	Madam President, I would like There are several reasons for not being impressed by the work of the government. Not in a single area have you carried out a single analysis of what action is required. You are trying to make the square block fit into the square hole, but the round, rectangular and triangular blocks should always be tested before you make the right decision. We have seen this in the question of immigration, the issue of terror, the number of police officers and, not least, the issue of the begging for the find. Is it really reasonable, Madam President, for Sweden's worst party to rule our country?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-413	Madam President, I would like The party in Sweden that is not part of any political settlement should not stand here and rate the party that is in government. We have taken a very great responsibility at a difficult time. There are problems, and they cannot be addressed by closing borders or branding people because of their national or ethnic origin – as the Swedish Democrats want. It's the square holes and square blocks Adam Marttinen is talking about.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-416	Madam President, I would like Last Saturday the world marched in support of free research and for more factual decisions in politics. That's good. The latter has also been stated by the Minister for Rural Development in response to a written question I have asked about organic production. In reply to my question, however, the Minister quickly turned to talking about consumers wanting organic food. I have no comments on that. Of course, people can eat what they want, but the fact is that there is no research that can scientifically verify that organic foods would be better than other Swedish-grown foods for either the environment, climate or health. Yet the government chooses to set such targets for production and consumption. Why does the government do that? On what scientific basis have these decisions been taken? I hope for a different response than just market forces.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-420	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Swedish food production has decreased for 20 years. Today there is a food trade deficit of minus 52 billion. There has been an enormous loss of jobs in Swedish rural areas over the 20 years, precisely because food production has fallen so drastically. The food strategy is about increasing Swedish food production. This applies to conventional production, i.e. Swedish conventional environmentally friendly agriculture, as well as locally produced and organic production. Unless Betty Malmberg has drawn attention to this, I can say that the demand for this type of production has increased dramatically over the last ten years. There are not Swedish organic products to the extent that Swedish consumers demand, and therefore we want to stimulate more such production.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-424	Madam President, I would like The most important thing for the future must be to steer towards sustainable food supply. We need to tackle the shortage of agricultural land, increase the production of biofuels and reduce the leakage of both conventional and organic farming. Eko is a lot about emotions. Today, the state provides almost 1 billion extra in aid per year to eco-farming. We Moderates think it is time to phase out state aid.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-426	Madam President, I would like When we took office, the Alliance actually had 400 million in the rural programme to support the transition to eco, so this is a total swing. There's no need for much science. If you go around in the shops you can see that it is empty on organic in the shelves in the Swedish stores.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-428	Madam President, I would like My question is a little on the same theme, but it goes to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. Many Swedes say that they want to trade socially and ecologically sustainable goods and thereby reduce the environmental impact of consumption and contribute to better working conditions where the goods are produced. At the same time, the share of these goods in trade is small in relation to demand.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important question. When consumers show that they want to make a difference but at the same time clearly point to us politicians and say that they need better tools, information and help in order to be able to act sustainably as consumers, the government and parliament have a great responsibility to enable consumers to make a difference. When Swedish commerce asks consumers, a large majority responds that they want to make a difference, but an equal majority responds that it is too difficult. That is why the government has launched a strategy for sustainable consumption, where we look at many different pieces. It's about increasing knowledge. We provide resources to the Swedish Consumer Agency to be able to be active and provide support and information to consumers through, for example, Hallå konsument. We have also used the tax system and reduced the cost of repair services for bicycles, clothing, shoes and at home. We have done this to make it easy to do the right thing as a consumer and to get financial incentives to act sustainably.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-436	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Shekarabi. The debate on welfare gains and freedom of choice has been marked by overtones from the left. The debate has been about everything but how to improve health care, how to improve the quality of care for the elderly and how to improve school outcomes. Instead, the left and some ministers have used overtones about profits, and unfortunately the government seems to want to remove freedom of choice in this area through an effective profit ban. In the former county council, Gävleborg, a leading social democrat in Söderhamn called LOV companies for a start of a white slave trade. Does the Government share the view that private welfare companies are engaged in a beginning white slave trade, as the Social Democratic Chairman said in the municipal debate this week?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-438	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman for the question. I was extremely frustrated when, in a TV4 program the other week, I saw a free school working for an autistic boy to leave school because he cost too much, and the goal was to maximise the profits for the school. This was done in accordance with Swedish legislation. Resources that are taken from taxpayers and given to the school to conduct school activities are thus used for something completely different, for profit distribution, because we do not have rules that ensure efficient use of resources. This is shameful and should be stopped. We have a duty to our taxpayers. We have a duty to maintain the legitimacy of Swedish welfare. We must then defend diversity and freedom of choice, but that also requires that resources be used for what they are intended for. There are major shortcomings in the system, but this government is on the side of the citizens and is in favour of the right conditions.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-443	Madam President, I would like The House, TV viewers and all who have children in school can note that Minister Shekarabi did not distance himself from the remarkable statement by the Social Democrats in Söderhamn that welfare companies are engaged in white slave trade. It is deeply unfortunate, and I do not think we should use overtones in the debate on society.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-444	Madam President, I would like I welcome the involvement of Lars Beckman in the fight against harmonics in Swedish politics. That's good. We need a more objective debate, and we need to discuss more based on facts and science. Let me take this opportunity to wish Lars Beckman and all the other brynäsare good luck for tonight's finals.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-446	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. The interim report of the postal law investigation came last spring, and it is proposed, among other things, that today's demand for overnight mail should be abolished in favour of a two-day requirement. The proposal is assessed by consultation bodies as having very negative consequences for rural areas and especially for entrepreneurs in e-commerce there and thus for Swedish jobs. A number of rural-oriented organisations, municipalities and regions have therefore strongly opposed the regulatory changes, including LRF, Småföretagarna and Skärgårdarnas national association. The municipality of Älvdalen writes in its referral that their companies have requirements from both suppliers and customers for fast delivery of products and services. In order for these companies not only to survive but to develop in order to be able to employ, their postal services must work. Does the government adopt a rural perspective in the continuing process of the Postal Law investigation, and if so, in what way?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-451	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. This question is handled by Minister Eriksson, so it is not on my table. But of course the Swedish countryside is concerned, and it is important that we have a functioning postal service in both rural and urban areas. The Rural Committee was an important instrument for developing a coherent rural policy that addresses the whole. It was established by this government and had not existed before. The question of postal legislation is now being prepared within the Government Office, and I would ask the questioner to address the right minister on this matter.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-455	Madam President, I would like It is a major problem that we see policy areas as drainpipes while people in rural areas live in their reality and rather with guttering. That is why I wanted to put this question to the Minister for Rural Development. The government says that all of Sweden will live, but your tax policy regarding road wear and air taxes hits people who live in rural areas and run companies there.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-458	Madam President, I would like Public services in Swedish rural areas are important, and the government has actually strengthened public services in Swedish rural areas a lot. This applies not least to food retailers, where we have gone in with new support so that we have stopped shop death in Swedish countryside. As Minister for Rural Affairs, there are two issues on which I cannot speak, and these are issues of aid and foreign policy. Everything else is actually out in Swedish countryside, as well as in the city. Venezuela and Sweden's actions in the UN Security Council
i-0a2e44a73839b312-461	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. The situation in Venezuela is getting worse day by day. From the fact that it has previously been fairly quiet about Venezuela in the media and from the Swedish government, the television screens are now filled with pictures of confrontations between the hard-tested Venezuelan people and the police, while the Swedish government is still silent. I have previously intervened on Venezuela and how the Swedish Government intends to act. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström then said that she shared my view that the situation in Venezuela is very worrying. Since then, Sweden has taken its place in the UN Security Council. My questions to Minister Lövin are: Has the concern expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs resulted in any action by the Swedish Government? How does the Swedish Government intend to use its seat in the UN Security Council to put pressure on Maduro so that he eases the repression of his own inhabitants?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-465	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the question. Venezuela does not belong to the aid countries for which I am responsible as Minister of Development. It would have been much better to put the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Whether it's in the UN Security Council, I can't tell you clearly. However, if the Foreign Minister has said that she will take it further, I am absolutely sure that this will happen. Sweden deals in the Security Council with the crises and conflicts that come on the Council's agenda. We also have the opportunity to push for questions to come up. But we do not have those channels through aid, for which I am responsible, to have that conversation with Venezuela.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-469	Madam President, I would like I put the question to Mrs Lövin as she answers public policy questions today. On Tuesday I go to Miami to attend the Freedom Conference. There will be, among other things, a number from the Venezuelan opposition in place. And they are waiting for a message from, among other things, the Swedish government. I am asking the question today because Mrs Wallström has expressed concern. I hope that this concern will result in action from the Swedish Government and that it is not just empty words.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-472	Madam President, I would like I can only welcome the commitment. I hope that the meeting in Miami will result in progress on this issue. Sweden stands up for human rights and the rule of law in all our talks with all countries around the world.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-474	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a forerunner and a strong representative of human rights and democracy in the world. I would also like to ask Minister Lövin a question. We have given and are still giving comprehensive support to democratic movements around the world. Now the aid has changed somewhat. It has been cut by a number of billions. But we see that aid to democracy organisations and aid for democracy is decreasing more than any other aid. As my colleague, Mrs Cecilie, mentioned, there is a great deal of enthusiasm and protest going on in Venezuela. Dictatorship is increasingly oppressing. Even parts of the Left Party, here in Sweden, have now stopped supporting the regime in Venezuela. We also have Belarus and Cuba.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-479	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the author of this important question. It is not true that our aid is being reduced. Nor is it true that our share, which goes to democracy, human rights, civil society organisations and the rule of law, and so on, is decreasing. We have it as a pervasive theme in almost all our bilateral strategies. We also have global strategies to support human rights activists, democrats, journalists and the free media. This is particularly important in countries where there are repressive regimes and where the space for civil society and democratic space is now shrinking. There are more than 60 countries that have introduced new legislation since 2012 that restricts freedom of expression and the scope for the actors of democracy to act.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-482	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, in many situations it has been a little too quiet from Sweden when it comes to criticism of strong dictatorships. We know that there have been different processes. Both the Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have said that there are positive things happening in Cuba. I find it hard to see the positive parts. Yesterday the government presented reports on human rights. In the report on Belarus, it seems that much of what has happened there, such as mass arrests, has been missed recently. Will we hear the Minister for Development take a clearer stand for democracy and human rights around the world?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-486	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Belarus is coming up. Sweden is one of the few EU countries that provides active democracy assistance to Eastern Europe and the Eastern Balkans. We are really fighting to give opportunities for freedom of expression and to give democracyists the opportunity to have an independent voice. The same applies to Cuba. This is part of trying to ensure that we have peaceful development, in our eastern neighbourhood but also in other countries.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-489	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Shekarabi. I have received in my hand the fantastically nice report from the State Service Centre which I am now presenting to the Members of this House. It was presented to the Government in February and is about a common state cloud service for the government's IT operations. It is an interim report on the work on coordination and relocation of authorities. It's nice reading. It says 30% savings in terms of government IT costs. Instead of 200 disparate data centres, you have a few central data centres. They're safe in rock rooms. You save local space in the big cities. IT security is greatly increased because we get self-control over the data flows. In addition, you raise the service to the authorities. What happens now, Prime Minister? When can the government move on with this?
i-TzVxtnXq7uRYKoePXFGu2g	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important question, Carl Schlyter! The report is an important basis for our continued work. We have also received a report from the Pensions Authority on cloud services. We are also working on cybersecurity issues in the public sector. We're behind here. The coordination of the authorities' work on IT investments is not good enough in Sweden. It costs money, it costs taxpayers money and it costs security. We have launched a work on the coordination of IT investments in the state sector. That report is an important basis, and we will continue to work on these issues. It takes control. It is of course good that we have authorities who work actively with digitalisation and IT investments. However, if major changes are to occur, it is necessary for the government and parliament to take responsibility for the whole of the public sector. We intend to do so.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-497	Madam President, I would like The report proposes ways of achieving these elements. This is a first step. What is needed is for the government to start work on implementing the recommendations. It is rare to have the opportunity to improve the environment as well as increase opportunities for work in rural areas, save a lot of money and increase data security and services. So it's a win-win-win solution. I look forward to future government proposals and thank you for your answer.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-500	Madam President, I would like It is definitely a gain for the public sector, for the environment and for the cohesion of our country if we use digitalisation as a tool for modernising public activities. For the last ten years, we've lost speed. Several of our neighbours have overtaken us. But we're gonna change that. It takes control. And this report is a good basis for further work.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-503	That concludes Question Time for the week. I would like to thank the ministers and Members for their participation.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-504	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Liberals because they have taken important steps in the last draft budget. They criticise the settlements and make clear further efforts on, for example, the UNHCR programme. Fredrik Malm also mentioned in his speech that it is important to support the ongoing aid projects. When they fall, it leads to increased further migration. Liberals also raise the resettlement system as a good way forward, leading to the organised reception of refugees. One can keep families together and ensure that this is done in a good way. That is something we have been pointing out for a long time. We were also at an early stage in wanting to increase the opportunities for reception via the resettlement system. The question I put to the Christian Democrats earlier is now put to the Liberals. It is about family immigration and the claim that stricter rules and controls are what divide families. There are countless examples of people, often young, who have come to Sweden first and who then bring a very large part of their family here afterwards. It is known that this is a system that has been abused, because it is easier to come here as a young person and then bring many in their family. My question is simply: is it not the policy that has allowed this to lead to the division of families? It makes it profitable to select a person and send this person through dangerous and illegal routes, which was raised by the Centre Party in a change of line just now. This policy encourages the division of families and young people to take these dangerous paths.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-508	Madam President, I would like I do not intend to stand in Parliament's pulpit and speculate on the reasons why individuals have come here. However, I note that we now have a situation where we have families with children here that have one or two members of the family left in, for example, war Syria. No matter what reasons the Swedish Democrats speculate about, these people have relatives in Sweden, and according to our regulations and our legislation they have the right to family immigration. The waiting time for these connecting talks, for example, at our embassy in Amman is now up to a year. In Beirut, I think it's a year and a few more months. I feel that's a big problem. It's troubling. It is problematic that the new legislation has had this effect. I think the question of humanitarian aid agencies is very important. It is not necessarily a matter for Parliament's Social Security Committee, but more for the Foreign Affairs Committee, but it is related to this. As long as this under-financing of the United Nations relief agencies continues, it will trigger new flows of refugees. In addition, people see that they cannot return where they came from. For example, in a city like Kobane in Syria, which was freed from Daish, you can see very clearly that there is no power, you have not built any houses, there are no roads, there is no local economy and there is nothing to return to. It will take decades to remedy this. That is why it is so vitally important to increase this support. However, I shall note that Sweden is a rather generous donor to these UN agencies. That is why other countries also need to give more.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-512	Madam President, I would like I commended the Liberals for highlighting precisely the importance of this. For a long time, the Swedish Democrats have been pointing out precisely the importance of helping more in the immediate neighbourhoods and ensuring that those in urgent need of support are also those who receive support, instead of having virtually unregulated migration to Sweden. And we do not know for sure what is coming here and whether the reasons put forward by these people are correct or not. We have been opposed for a long time to settlements, but we have encountered opposition from the Liberals, among other things, to our reservations about this. I'm going back to the next of kin immigration. Fredrik Malm does not want to speculate on the reasons. But you still have to do that. We must realise that all policies that we have have have a variety of effects. Pull effects are not something in which it is speculated. It is a fact that our rules affect what motivates people to come here and how they choose to come here. Fredrik Malm also refers to the rules that exist about when you are entitled to family immigration. But the Liberals want to extend these rights. I and my party have pointed out that perhaps it should already be made clear that it is not necessarily in Sweden that families should be reunited. We believe that it should be ensured that clear requirements are maintained as to who is allowed to come here and what the consequences are, precisely in order not to encourage the division of families by sending individual family members to Sweden to bring other family members here. That is what applies now. Liberals have both a specific opinion and reservations in which they actually point out that they want to increase opportunities even further. Regardless of reasons of protection, people should be able to bring their family here, for example. Do the Liberals realise that the result of this is pull effects, where families actually split up because we make it so beneficial to first send a young person from a family so that more people can come here?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-517	Madam President, I would like There are two problems with this. One problem is the family fragmentation that we have now. The second problem is the long waiting periods for those who actually have the right to have their relatives to Sweden. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats do not think that families in Sweden need to be reunited. No, you can unite the families in Aleppo. If you advocate it, you can suggest it. I think it's inhumane. It is not a policy that I advocate. I think it is reasonable that families with children should not be divided. In addition, I can note that parties can sometimes land on the same positions even though they argue a little differently. I believe, or are quite convinced, or are rather confident that the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats have slightly different starting points as to why we want to strengthen the humanitarian aid agencies. In the main, I want to strengthen the humanitarian aid agencies, not because I want to ensure that a cow does not come to Europe, but because I see enormous tragedies and a huge need for emergency aid. That is the starting point for us. This means that if you are going to strengthen, for example, the UNHCR, it is as in the cards that you not only send money there but you are also prepared to accept some people according to a quota. It's in the nature of things to do both things. That is why we in the Liberals think it is important that we strengthen the UN Relief and Works Agency but that we, as a programme country within the UNHCR, can also accept more people according to the resettlement quota.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-520	Madam President, I would like Migration policy, which we have in focus for this debate on the four reports SfU14, SfU15, SfU16 and SfU17, we have had the opportunity and opportunity to discuss and debate many times in recent years. It has not least been about the migration agreement, about breathing space and refugee break, about border and ID checks, about the temporary law and about the negotiations on a new harmonised migration policy within the EU. We in the Christian Democrats have, of course, kept to this, but we have also come up with a lot of our own proposals and set out our own direction for how we want Sweden's migration policy to be shaped. We have put forward proposals which, on the basis of the right of asylum, have aimed, and continue to aim, at achieving an orderly, long-term responsible and humane migration policy that offers refuge for people on the run. In my speech today, I intend to highlight some key elements of this whole which are re-emerged in the four motions for resolutions. Firstly, in order to improve the reception of asylum seekers and to make the asylum process more efficient, we have proposed the establishment of asylum application areas near our major border crossing points and the reference to all those who intend to apply for asylum in Sweden. In these areas, the registration of asylum applications shall be carried out and accommodation for asylum seekers shall also be provided during the first phase of the asylum investigation. The idea is that persons who obviously do not help to prove their identity and who come from so-called safe countries, or who, in accordance with the rules of the Dublin Regulation, should have their asylum application examined in another country, should be given a rapid expulsion decision. The same applies to persons who are deemed to be a safety risk. The establishment of asylum application areas would contribute to a comprehensive reception and decision-making process, thereby preventing people from digressing and ending up in a vulnerable situation. Madam President, I would like Secondly, the Christian Democrats have also proposed the introduction of an asylum programme of six months. The idea behind this is to reduce inaction during the period of asylum, and to speed up both the establishment of the labour market and integration in Sweden by early communication of the norms and values that characterise our society. It is important to make it clear that people who come to Sweden with the intention of staying will learn the Swedish language and our culture. Of course, the starting point is to support oneself and your family. We therefore believe that participation in formal education and social orientation should be offered and required at the beginning of the asylum period. In order for more asylum seekers to work during the period of asylum, we also want a working requirement for asylum seekers to be available in the labour market. At the same time, we have proposals both to make it easier for asylum seekers to work and to strengthen asylum seekers' incentives to work. Child care shall be offered to ensure that the asylum programme also works for parents of young children, while at the same time allowing those who do not participate in the asylum programme to have their daily allowance reduced. Madam President, I would like Thirdly, the Christian Democrats want to see a permanent law with the meaning that all groups of persons in need of protection should initially be granted a limited three-year residence permit. If the reasons for protection persist after these three years, or if the person concerned has acquired a job or started his or her own business on which he or she can make a living, a permanent residence permit shall be granted. But the Christian Democrats have also said that the right to family reunification should also apply to those who need protection who have a temporary residence permit, because it is better that the people who have come to Sweden focus on establishing themselves in the labour market and in society as soon as possible than that they focus on worrying about their relatives. We are fully aware that this has financial implications, so in order to finance the deviation from government policy on the possibility of family reunification, we have set aside SEK 1.3 billion in our shadow budget for this year. At the same time, we believe that the right to family immigration should apply only to the relatives of whom the asylum seeker has informed at the time of arrival, both to facilitate the identification of asylum seekers and to gain better control of their reception. Madam President, I would like Fourthly, it is important to stress that those who have come to Sweden to seek asylum but who, after an individual and legal review, are not deemed to have sufficient grounds for protection to obtain a residence permit as quickly as possible must return to their home country. Unfortunately, we know that both the return that takes place on its own and the forced expulsions and expulsions that take place are working too badly today. In order to overcome this, it is important that Sweden enters into more readmission agreements with the main countries of origin to receive their citizens. However, more resources are also needed for the police to be able to execute expulsions and expulsions, and also to a greater extent to carry out internal checks on aliens. More detention sites are also needed. We have also set aside money for this in our budget for this year. Fifthly, the Christian Democrats are working to ensure that there are more legal ways into Sweden to live and work here. Together with efforts to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness by facilitating the recruitment of employees from all over the world as needed, this is the main reason why we want to facilitate labour migration. It should be easy to work and to do the right thing in Sweden. This requires that rigid rules or unnecessary bureaucracy do not put obstacles in the way. As all my alliance colleagues have said here in the speaker's chair earlier today, there is every reason to look at the overly rigid rules that have led to people's unreasonable rejection of their applications for work permits. We believe that an overall assessment should be made in these cases and that employers who recognise a mistake made and want to correct it afterwards should be able to do so. It is a clear demand from the KD and the Alliance that the government should return as soon as possible with proposals for rules that make it easier for labour immigrants to do the right thing and to stay in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Sixthly, and finally, I would like to say a few words about Swedish citizenship. Swedish citizenship does not mean anything. This means many rights but also obligations. These include the right to vote in parliamentary elections, the right to seek certain types of services in the police, the court and the military, the unconditional right to reside in the country and the possibility of consular assistance abroad. With citizenship, the citizen also becomes part of something in common, where the sense of participation, belongingness and identity is strengthened. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that citizenship also entails obligations. It is about taking responsibility for society by contributing to and promoting the common good. It is about complying with the laws and taking responsibility for the governance of society by participating in the democratic elections. The Christian Democrats believe that the importance of citizenship should be enhanced. Among other things, we want to do this by introducing requirements for applicants for citizenship to undergo education in social orientation and to gain knowledge of Swedish society. We also think that a citizenship book should be submitted to the new Swedish citizens in connection with the citizenship ceremonies organised in the municipalities. The new citizens would then be better and more actively able both to exercise the rights and to fulfil the obligations of citizenship. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to make it clear that the Christian Democrats naturally support all our reservations in the four reports we are dealing with today. However, for time to come, we in this House are only calling for reservation 3 in SfU14, for reservation 5 in SfU15 and for the alliance reservations 1 and 4 in SfU17.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-550	Madam President, I would like As our spokesperson on these issues has become ill, I will present the Left Party's positions on the current issues. In the case of SfU14, on citizenship, the Left Party has no reservation. During SfU15, however, on migration and refugee policy, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3, which deals with the Act on Temporary Restrictions in order to obtain a residence permit in Sweden. We believe that these restrictions should be lifted, because they lead to too much suffering and result in a great departure from the basic idea of the right to asylum. The law should at least not be applied retroactively. The decisions are life-changing for the individual, and it is questionable whether retroactive legislation is compatible with EU law. During the SfU16, I would like to endorse reservation 3. It is about family reunification being one of the very few legal routes to Sweden, and the temporary law has considerably curtailed this path. If more families on the run were allowed to reunite, many would escape the dangerous route across the Mediterranean. The government should therefore come back with proposals on how to strengthen the right to family reunification. Living with your family is actually a human right. During the SfU17, I would like to endorse reservation 8. This is about the law that an employer should notify the Swedish Tax Agency in order for a person with a temporary residence permit to be able to receive a permanent residence permit is very inappropriate. The employee cannot control or control the notification, and an administrative error can have major consequences. Failure to report can also be used as an instrument by rogue employers. In addition, we will support S and MP's reservation 5 in SfU17, which deals with enhanced work against abuse.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-558	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate what fundamental rights a customer should have when entering his bank. It is basically an EU directive to set the same standards throughout the EU that we are now going to bring into Swedish law. Unfortunately, it seems that only the Left Party really cares. We are the only party that has opposed the proposal, as the proposal does not make any real difference to today. Banks will continue to be fully in control of determining the service to be provided to us as customers. If, however, I am going to start by saying something positive, it is a good thing that we are now legislating on the right to a payment account for individuals. There have been very few people who have been denied a bank account, but they have been there – especially a few years ago, many asylum seekers had difficulty opening a bank account in Sweden. In connection with the preparation of this proposal, the Left Party requested an internal hearing in the Finance Committee with the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen. On one point they were both very clear, which they have also been throughout the process: the right to a bank account should also include companies and associations. This is where we see the major problems today, according to the Financial Supervisory Authority. This time, the otherwise so corporate parties in this House have shown no interest whatsoever in the situation and conditions of companies. Only the Left Party has done that. Let us now talk about cash. When it comes to cash, Sweden is not the right country, as we often believe. We are the odd ones and the extremes, and other countries wonder if we are the future or a drift. We are the only country in the world where the nominal value of all cash goes down, despite the positive development of the economy. We have gone from 1,400 bank accounts with cash handling in 2011 to 600 bank accounts receiving cash in 2016. In 2011 there were 328 bank accounts that were cashless, today they are 901. So there are more cashless offices than those receiving cash. Does this development matter? Yeah. What the Riksbank sees is that it is when you want to make deposits that you encounter the biggest problems. Bank cards are the most common way to pay in Sweden, and more than nine out of ten use it. Eight out of ten people have paid cash in the last month. The modern way, such as using Swish, yes, only every other person has used it. I believe that society as a whole looks much like the Left Party parliamentary group. If I owe Jonas Sjöstedt money, I can quickly and smoothly swish them to him, but if I owe Ali Esbati money, however, I need cash. The situation is so serious that the state needs to take greater responsibility. Once again, in yet another area, we have relied too heavily on the market to resolve the situation. But the market logic doesn't work in the countryside. And in this case it also applies to the cities and especially to their suburbs. In Gothenburg – you know, Sweden's second largest city – one of the major banks has only one office where cash can be deposited. The Riksbank went so far at our hearing that they said that the entire cash infrastructure is being broken. The problems of lack of cash management are many for the individual. Many entrepreneurs are adversely affected. They testify to problems in getting rid of day funds, how difficult it is to get change, how far they are forced to go in order to be able to do business with bank services regarding cash and how they feel about their business threatened by the lack of cash. Many of these businesses are located in rural areas, where access to broadband does not always exist. They also have many older customers who want to use cash. Many are also the associations that fund themselves with lotteries, sales of various kinds, bingo, cafes, etc., but find it difficult to deposit the money into their accounts. If they succeed, they'll have to pay big fees for it. It is an absurd system in which the non-profits work to strengthen the association's finances, people who want to support the association contribute financially to the association's activities, and then the bank takes too much of the money. Unfortunately, the responsibility of the banks does not seem to be so great. So what's to be done? Yes, unlike any other party, the Left Party makes proposals. We believe that regulation of the law would be the best way forward. It should, as the Riksbank proposes, be a flexible legislation aimed at the banks that is adapted to different banks' target groups. We see that it works in Norway, and then it should work just as well here. It is clear that the Left Party and the Riksbank do the same analysis and draw the same conclusion on this issue, but we are far from alone. The Parliamentary Rural Committee, where all the parties of Parliament were present, came to the same conclusion. Pensioners' organizations such as PRO and SPF have collected a variety of signatures. 140 000 people have signed PRO's protest to Minister of Finance Bolund. In the Kontant uprising we hear how it rumbles, and the energetic debater Björn Eriksson father and fart around Sweden to talk about cash. From the other parties in the Riksdag there is a lot of talk and a little workshop. You have a responsibility to resolve this issue. It is not enough to be concerned about the situation, to invite coffee and a seminar, to invite the big banks to discuss the difficulties of using cash or, as is now the case, to invite Minister for Finance Bolund to the Committee on Finance. It is when you shop and make suggestions on how to proceed that you make a difference. Several parties, who will soon have the floor in this debate, have said that legislation is not the way forward, as they are concerned that the big banks will close even more bank accounts. But where are your suggestions? I promise you, inviting Nordea's CEO Koskull von Koskull for coffee will not be enough! Sweden is also at the bottom of the EU's access to ATMs, while the possibility of withdrawing cash from them has deteriorated significantly. The ATMs are today organized into a joint company with the five largest banks, called Bankomat AB. This has led to a very market dominant position for these operators. These five large banks also own the depot from which all cash handling in Sweden takes place. The banks took over this depot from the Riksbank when it liquidated its cash handling. The ownership of large banks makes it impossible for new players to establish ATM services in Sweden without very high costs. When the big banks shut down the rural bank accounts, it has often also meant that the ATM has disappeared. An investigation should therefore be set up to examine whether major banks can be required to maintain ATMs in rural areas. Some people perceive us as talking for the cash as wanting to live in the past. I think it's exactly the opposite. I want to enter the future. I think it is great that the Riksbank is investigating its own digital e-currency e-kronas, which could seriously challenge the monopoly position of large banks. For me, the issue of cash is about which society we want, whether we want everyone to be involved, or whether the whole structure of society and politics should only be adapted to an urban middle class. I believe in a society in which we can all participate and manage our payments in the way we want and which suits us best, where new technology is an aid that facilitates and improves and does not break down functioning systems. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation No 1.
i-JwicAYWQPStg535yAtQjd2	Madam President, I would like This report is primarily about implementing the EU directive called the Payment Account Directive. The bill proposes that the Payment Services Act be amended and, in part, some changes to the Marketing Act. The bill contains three parts. Firstly, rules on fee information aim to facilitate consumer transparency and comparability of fees charged for payment accounts. Secondly, the proposal addresses the issue of facilitating the exchange of payment accounts between different payment service providers. The third area dealt with by the bill is the consumer's access to payment accounts with basic features. Credit institutions providing a payment account with basic features shall offer it to all consumers. In addition to these rules, there are also rules on supervision and sanctions. Madam President, I would like Everyone shall be able to obtain a payment account with basic features upon application, and it shall be provided promptly. A payment account is defined as an account used to carry out payment transactions. An individual credit institution cannot refuse access to the payment services provided by the credit institution to an individual consumer. Furthermore, it may not be conditional that the acquisition of a payment account requires the purchase of other services held by the credit institution. The committee believes that there is no need to introduce rules requiring all credit institutions to offer all basic functions. The committee believes that it is enough that there are enough institutions to provide the various services. Madam President, I would like The application for a payment account shall be dealt with promptly by credit institutions. The committee believes that it should take ten business days for the Institute to announce decisions. If the decision is rejected, the consumer shall be informed immediately and shall be informed of where he or she may bring a complaint and where he or she may have the decision brought before the courts. The application may be rejected if the payment account is in breach of the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. It can also be rejected if there are special reasons. Specific reasons may include money laundering and unfair behaviour of the consumer towards any credit institution. The account can only be terminated if the account is used for illegal purposes, if the account is not used for 24 months and if the consumer has provided incorrect information in the application. Credit institutions shall notify the consumer in writing with a notice period of at least two months. Furthermore, reference shall be made to where the consumer can seek redress and lodge a complaint. The committee does not believe that a move outside the EU or that the consumer has an account in another credit institution is a reason for dismissal. Madam President, I would like The committee shares the government's view that credit institutions and banks should have clear procedures for consumers' switching of payment service providers across the EU and the EEA. Credit institutions shall assist in the transfer of funds and the closure of accounts. Credit institutions may charge reasonable fees for the costs associated with the change of payment service provider. However, these shall correspond to the costs incurred by credit institutions for the transfers. The Swedish Bankers' Association has established rules for its members that are simpler than what is stated in the directive. The Bankers' Association's recommendation is a faster and easier way to handle exchanges. The committee therefore believes that the possibility that the directive allows to apply existing rules should be applied in Sweden. The committee believes, however, that it should be stipulated that credit institutions should have procedures for exchanging payment accounts. In the event of damage to property in the event of a change and caused by the credit institution, the institution shall compensate the consumer. Madam President, I would like Credit institutions have the possibility to charge a reasonable fee for the payment account. The consumer shall be provided with price information on the fees and interest resulting from payment services. The directive states that certain payment accounts with limited access to payment services should be offered free of charge, but the committee believes that this is not necessary on the Swedish market. In addition, the consumer shall have access to free websites to compare prices in different credit institutions. Madam President, I would like Finally, the proposal contains a number of rules on dispute resolution, supervision and sanctions. The committee notes that disputes are to be dealt with by existing ADR bodies, i.e. the General Complaints Board. According to the Payment Account Directive, there must be a supervisory authority, and the committee recommends that Finansinspektionen become this authority. Madam President, I would like In connection with the payment services inquiry, the Riksbank replied that it was assessed that there was at that time an imbalance in the supply of cash services and that this was largely due to the rapid reduction in the banks' cash management. The Riksbank recommends that credit institutions be given a responsibility for having access to cash in society. Furthermore, the Riksbank considers that the Payment Account Directive should also cover associations and companies. The committee considers that obtaining payment services is not such a problem for companies and associations as to give rise to legislative action. Madam President, I would like There has been a motion in this report which explicitly addresses the need for cash issues. On the one hand, the exerciser wants society to be obliged to provide and receive cash and, on the other hand, the government to set up an investigation to review whether large banks can be required to set up ATMs in rural areas and that associations and businesses should be subject to the right to open payment accounts with basic payment services. In addition to this, there is a special statement from the four bourgeois parties about the problems in society – that it is problematic to withdraw cash but also that individuals, companies and associations can also not hand in their day funds and money. Madam President, I would like I agree with much of the particular opinion of the bourgeois parties. There is a problem with the banks having decommissioned their cash operations at a very rapid rate. It is therefore important that a fundamental analysis be carried out of the most appropriate measures to enable cash to exist. This requires an investigation, and both the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen have presented a number of ideas on how this can be resolved. The committee notes that the recent investigation into the Riksbank has the task of investigating this. Tightly it can be interpreted as referring only to the Riksbank's role in cash handling. However, statements by members of the investigation suggest that the aim is to find a satisfactory solution to the problem. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-598	Mr. Old President! The gap in the line shift should not be lost by the little break that we have had since Börje Vestlund's speech. I have often listened to Börje Vestlund's concerns about cash but I am thinking about what Börje Vestlund and the Social Democrats are actually doing to stop this concern. Is the coffee maker the only tool you have to convince bank managers not to close bank accounts and ATMs?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-600	Mr. Old President! I don't know if I've ever had coffee with any bankers. It is possible that the government has done so and that the Left Party is doing so, but at least I have not done so. To take this seriously, we can quickly conclude that it is apparently only the Left Party that is the fine party in this Chamber. However, unlike the Left Party, we firmly believe that before legislation is brought forward, we should try what is the appropriate way. It is therefore necessary to analyse where these legislative measures are needed. Then it is not obvious that you do it according to the model that the Left Party wants, that every bank should be able to handle this. It's for two reasons. One is that the risk is quite high that you would close even more bank accounts. The question is whether this would not happen even more in rural areas, where bank accounts are disappearing at the moment. In the cities they have already disappeared to a large extent. The second is that we have appointed the Riksbank's investigation. I have heard signals from individual Members that they want the issue to be resolved there. I also think we should look at the time, because I am quite sure that we need to make a proposal here. We share the Riksbank's concern that the infrastructure for cash handling is being dismantled. That is why proposals need to be made. But it has to happen in such a way that you do the right things and not just say that now we are going to do this after Håkan Svenneling's head, because then I am sure it will be disaster, but this needs to be investigated properly.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-605	Mr. Old President! Once again we hear Börje Vestlund's concern on this issue. But we hear very little about what proposals he actually wants to implement. Börje Vestlund wants to analyse and think about other models because he is worried about the effects this would otherwise have. The strange thing about Börje Vestlund's proposal is that he wants to investigate this in the Riksbank investigation. It is an investigation that is responsible for investigating the Riksbank's role in cash, that is, the person who prints cash and then hands it over to the banks' depots. Then the Riksbank's responsibility ends. The Riksbank has no customers who can enter the bank. Börje Vestlund and I can't go there and run our errands. You can't do that at Brunkebergstorg, but at your individual bank. The problem when you let such an investigation investigate this is that it can only come up with one result: You can only decide to impose an increased responsibility on the Riksbank or to the state to take greater responsibility. Instead, responsibility should be placed on those who are best at handling cash. They're the ones that have buildings built so they don't get robbed and so on-- they're bank accounts and banks. This is also a problem because Börje Vestlund does not care about the investigation that has looked at the issue and thought about what would be best for rural areas in Sweden. It is the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, in which all eight parties in Parliament have sat together and where it has been agreed that the best thing would be to have legislation that pointed to the responsibility of the banks. But Börje Vestlund doesn't want to worry about that. Instead, he wants to do an analysis in an investigation that should really be about monetary policy. There, cash should be a small question, but Börje Vestlund wants to make it a big and central issue.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-609	Mr. Old President! I and we share the view expressed in the Rural Committee's report that the matter should be examined. It does not say that you should do something else, but it says explicitly that you should investigate the matter. That's where we're in complete agreement. I think you should just investigate the matter. That's why you have to do the right things. You can't be careless about this, because then it can be very expensive for the state and very complicated for the individual. Probably it won't be solved. We want to do this in a positive way. You can like Håkan Svenneling believe in ancient days when you could go to your bank account and withdraw money. But I do not believe that, and the Rural Committee did not really believe that either. They wanted to look at how to arrange an alternative to this. I think there are things in this that can be questioned. One thing I personally question is why there should be so many authorities involved. Some of this lies, for example, on the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. I think that's a strange order. But if so, look at the whole issue of cash handling. I think that's a more sensible order.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-613	Mr. Old President! If you pack up thousands of pieces really close equals one inch (U.S.), and 100 meters (U.S.) of packed thousands equals 1 billion. Of course, you don't have to do that, but it shows that money has a visible value that is hard to imagine when you see a number of zeros on paper or in the computer. The feeling of money is completely lost. There are many people who find it hard to imagine the difference between 1 million and 1 billion. Three zeros don't sound that much, but the difference between a decimeter of thousands and a hundred meters of thousands is obvious. This report is mainly about the implementation of the Payment Account Directive. This means strengthening the position of bank customers by providing them with better information on charges in order to make it easier to compare the conditions of different banks. One should be able to switch banks more easily, which can increase mobility and competition. Access to payment accounts shall be promoted for all residents of the EEA. The report also deals with a motion on cash management. The issue of cash management is highly topical as it affects many people. The technological development is rapid, and it is particularly rapid in Sweden in the field of cash handling. The demand for money is decreasing; this can be seen from the amount of cash in circulation, which has decreased dramatically since 2010 as well as the number of ATMs. As far as bank accounts are concerned, they are decreasing overall, but the cash handling offices have decreased even more. 2016 was the first year when there were more cashless bank accounts in Sweden than bank accounts with traditional cash. Everyone can see that self - scanning is introduced in supermarkets, and you pay everywhere by card or by mobile phone. There are many advantages to digital cash management. It's simpler, faster and safer. But there are also disadvantages, especially that not everyone is on the track. Older people, young people, new arrivals or tourists may find it difficult. But rural areas also suffer from deteriorating conditions. It can also hit companies and associations that depend on cash. I think we all agree on the actual problem picture. The question is how to fix the problem and who to do what. There are many parties involved, but no one has, according to the Cash Management investigation, a clear and comprehensive responsibility. Investigations have been set up, and proposals have been made by the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development. These are prepared. Only a month ago, in connection with the discussion of the report Financial stability and financial market issues, we in Parliament rejected motions which wanted to transfer greater responsibility for cash management to the banks. We rejected the motions with reference to the parliamentary Riksbank inquiry, which starts in the near future and which has the task of considering how the Riksbank's responsibility for the proper functioning of cash management throughout the country should be clarified in law as well as the role and responsibility of the Riksbank for the cash supply throughout the country and the costs thereof. We in the Alliance stress in our special opinion that we believe that there is a problem for companies, associations and individuals who want or need to handle cash. We stress that there is an understanding that the problem is increasing and that we therefore want these issues to be dealt with urgently in the investigation.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-620	Mr. Old President! The Moderates express concern. Anette Åkesson does so in her speech and also with her bourgeois colleagues in the special opinion. But they do come up with few concrete proposals. Instead, as Mrs Anette said, they want to investigate this in the parliamentary Riksbank investigation. Our internal hearing in the Committee on Finance showed that there are a number of options between different actors. Either one places a great responsibility on the state, on the trade or on the banks. But one major shortcoming of the Riksbank's investigation is that you only look at the Riksbank's part, i.e. not even the entire state and not at all at trade and banks. The Riksbank therefore said at our internal hearing that it wants to see additional directives, and Finansinspektionen expressed that it was the wrong form of investigation to investigate the matter in. The only thing that really speaks in favour of investigating it in the investigation of the Riksbank Act is precisely that it is parliamentary, i.e. that all parties are present, and that all parties share the same concerns but have not really come to a solution. I think there is a great risk with these directives that you only land in that it is the Riksbank that will do something and that you do not see the other actors. There is a fundamental difference between the type of action we take – whether we place responsibility only on the public or whether the private also has some kind of responsibility.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-625	Mr. Old President! As I said, this is an important issue, and many actors are involved. On the other hand, it would be strange if, just a month after we referred to the Riksbank's investigation, we were to change our minds on this point. That would have been very strange. But now that Håkan Svenneling has requested a reply, I have the chance to also ask Håkan Svenneling a question. It concerns the issue of cash management, which is very important. We all agree on that. At the same time, the Left Party wants banks to have a greater commitment. We all know that it is an important function of society, and then it is perhaps a bit odd that the Left Party believes that the banks should be paid and also make profits. I was going to ask Håkan Svenneling: How have you thought when you want the banks to get a greater responsibility for such a socially important function as cash management?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-628	Mr. Old President! The problem with the Moderates' line of investigation is that it leads to us investigating and investigating without coming to concrete political action. As a result, we are in a situation where the Riksbank says that the cash handling infrastructure is at risk of falling in many parts of the country. We are faced with a situation where the costs for individual traders are incredibly high, for example. That is why we politicians must act in some way. I think it is in a way good that the Moderates have now gone from a situation where you have thought a lot to that you now say you want to act. But it's hard that we constantly need to tick off a lot of investigations before we come to any political position. I'm thinking about whether the Moderates are prepared to put the responsibility on the trade or the banks or whether you just see it as the public thing to do. I think it would be a good idea to clarify on the part of the legislator who should be responsible. That is why I think it is good that the banks take greater responsibility. Historically, the banks have been responsible, but without any kind of political decision they have decided that cash they do not want, because they cannot earn as much money as they want from them. Therefore, they have chosen this way to make it more difficult for people to use cash and to make it easier to use other funds. We also see a problem in saying that there is an increased risk of robbery with cash and that you point to various problems and deficiencies with cash, but you do not even account for the costs you have for cards. Last night we were able to watch the news about the new smart cards, and a colleague showed me outside that he has one. By walking next to someone in an escalator you can steal card details as a thief. So there is really no secure payment system whether we are talking about card payment, cash payment or other types of payment. That is why I think it is very important for us to clarify what we want from politics. I wonder what the Moderates are prepared to do. Do we also want to place responsibilities on private operators, or do we only see state actors in front of them?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-633	Mr. Old President! It would be strange, as I said, if today, one month after we decided to refer to the parliamentary Riksbank inquiry, we took a different decision. So we still stand by that point. As I said, it is a parliamentary inquiry, which means that the politicians in it have certain freedoms, and we have also stressed that we want a result to be achieved urgently. I still find it interesting that the Left Party wants the banks to have greater social responsibility for cash management because there are some parallels with other socially important activities where the Left Party does not want to make a profit.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-636	Mr. Old President! The report that we are going to discuss today deals with a number of issues, but I am going to focus on the issue that has perhaps been most debated here this afternoon, and that is access to cash and its handling. The problems are well known. In both rural and urban suburbs, more and more bank accounts have either disappeared completely or ended up in cash. As a result, people who use cash in their daily lives find it more difficult to do so. It is more difficult to withdraw as well as deposit cash. An equally important problem is that companies and associations that receive or handle a lot of cash in their business find it difficult to get rid of them. There are examples of tourist companies in northern Sweden who are forced to drive hundreds of thousands of miles of cash in order to deposit these cash funds at all in a bank or similar. It is a problem that needs to be resolved. In principle, it has two solutions. Firstly, we must continue with the roll-out of digital infrastructure, because no one should think that it is something temporary that we use less and less cash and that fewer and fewer people want to deal with it. The development with cards and Swish and the like will continue, and it is basically very good if and when everything works. However, this is based on the availability of broadband and mobile coverage. It does not exist in all parts of the country, and it is a problem that needs to be resolved. Another problem that needs to be resolved is, of course, the actual handling of cash. We will, albeit to a small extent, have to use cash and continue to want to use cash. We will receive visitors from all over the world for whom it is natural to use cash. There will therefore be a need for a well-functioning cash management system for the foreseeable future. Then the only question is how to get it in place. For me, the question is relatively simple. We already have today a system of safe transport between various forms of depots and banks and trade, both on and off. Of course, this is what we need to start from. There is today a shared responsibility between a fairly broad variety of authorities such as the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, county boards and the Riksbank. It is a responsibility shared with, for example, banks, trade and other actors. It is natural that it is in this circle, possibly in a more pure circle, that the problem is also solved. Then comes the questions of who sets the guidelines, who pays and who in the individual cases has that last main responsibility. There is a reason to simply put your foot down and agree on what should apply. This issue has been investigated on several occasions. What is now needed is that we agree and establish a system that will apply in the future and that works better than today and erases the white spots found on the Swedish cash handling map at present. The discussion has largely focused on what kind of investigation is the best way to solve the problem. I think most people are less interested in it. What is important is that we de facto come up with a new policy and come up with a solution so that we can put this problem behind us and move forward in our lives. I note that, with regard to the Gebit of the Finance Committee and the issues we are dealing with, parliamentary investigations, when we sit together all parties and try to agree, are the most effective when it comes to getting things in place during this parliamentary term. We forced a parliamentary inquiry into surplus targets and the like and took the opportunity to resolve a number of issues that, for example, had bearing on the budgetary process. In the near future, the investigation that will review the Riksbank Act regarding everything from the Board of Directors and inflation targets to cash management will have its first meeting. Since I am part of the investigation, I will propose at that meeting that we write an interim report as a matter of urgency, that we send the signal from all parties in Parliament – at best – to the primary government that now we have to solve the problem. I think it is the fastest and most effective way to get there, and that is why we choose to act. This issue is not served by placarding in committee initiatives. What counts seriously is what solves the problem most quickly and best, and that is exactly what the Center Party and the Alliance intend to do.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-650	Mr. Old President! The Center Party is the party that has most actively invited to seminars and hearings on cash. It was done as late as yesterday. But it has been unclear what the Center Party wants to do. It has been clear that we do not want to see any real legislation but, for example, have no follow-up movements here, which means that we do not know what the Center Party's proposals really are. I agree with much of what Emil Källström says. I think it is absolutely right to make a connection to broadband expansion and mobile coverage, which is part of solving these issues in a good way. I think it is important for politics to see the broad outlines, how social development is connected. Emil Källström is a strong supporter of solving this in the upcoming Riksbank investigation, and there can certainly be points with it. It may be good that we can move on with our lives, as Emil Källström says. We need to solve the problem now, because there is no need for further investigations. This is something we have learned: investigations cannot be done indefinitely. If you are a housing minister, you can sometimes think that you can almost live in an investigation, but that is not actually the case. The problem here is that Emil Källström says he wants to solve the problem but does not come up with a proposal on how. That's what I'm wondering, Emil – how you think you can move on with it. I feel somewhere that you have double loyalties. You want the countryside very well; you talk about Sweden being split and you see major shortcomings in that we get increased regional differences in Sweden. At the same time, you're the best friend of the big banks and you're very worried about bumping into them. Emil Källström! What measures do you really want to see?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-656	Mr. Old President! I shall be very open about the fact that I have changed my mind about the need for legislation and action on the part of the state. I long hoped that this problem was something that stakeholders would solve because the policy has become increasingly clear that the situation is not good enough – something has to happen; a number of problems have to be solved. I hoped that that signal would be enough, because it would be best if we did not have to legislate and do not have to regulate this. It will be very easy too complicated regulations. I tried to be as clear as I could in my speech. I believe that the solution will be a combination of tougher demands on those who today ship cash around our country. It is not least about the company that the banks own together that handles the ATMs. I believe that trade will be part of that solution. But in some cases when it comes to places that today completely lack both ATMs and bank accounts and the like, I think there may be reason for the state – possibly in the form of the Riksbank, possibly in the form of some other appropriate branch of our public sector – to, like the cases of traffic to Gotland and night trains to upper Norrland, actually procure and ensure that the part of the basic service is in place. I do not think it is so simple that you can just put the whole question in the knee of a single player and say: Solve the problem! I think it may bring disadvantages. I think the solution will be a little more nuanced than that. But the fact remains: there is a problem to be solved, and there are a number of actors who have to deal with it jointly. Long benches and further investigations are not good enough. We expect results.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-661	Mr. Old President! I think that's a good answer that Emil Källström gives. He is clear that all the measures are on the table and that it is rather a question of all the actors being able to resolve the matter together. That it may require legislation in any case I interpret into Emil Källström's answer. I have been accused in this debate of taking placard politics. I must say, however, that I welcome the fact that all the other parties are now saying that they want to resolve the issue and come up with concrete measures. I believe that the proposal put forward by the Left Party as a follow-up to this bill and what the Riksbank has outlined with flexible legislation is in fact the most far-reaching and serious proposal anyone has looked at. Other proposals that I have heard in the debate have been rather poorly investigated. I sometimes feel a little shooting from my hip. I think it's great if this investigation doesn't do it, but take a serious look at all the measures that exist and come up with a proposal. I wish the investigation and Emil Källström and all the others who sit in the great good luck. It will be exciting to see how you will manage to submit an interim report by 1 June, as the directives say. I am not sure that you will succeed. But you may be able to get all parties in Parliament together to come up with a solution so that we can move on with our lives, as Emil Källström said, and have this problem solved.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-665	Mr. Old President! I also think it will be difficult to make it to 1 June. For all those who may not be familiar with all the details of the Riksbank's investigation, it is about that before the elections we must present proposals that have bearing on constitutional changes. If we do, the first decision must be made before the elections. It may be difficult to make time, and it is entirely because it has taken a very long time to get the investigation started after the decision has been made. We decided that the investigation would be set up about a year ago. I don't know what the government has done in the meantime. Maybe they've had coffee with the big banks; who knows? Fortunately, there will be more time all the time, which gives us time to resolve this issue. But it must not take too much time.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-668	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by agreeing with everything Anette Åkesson said earlier. I'm just going to dwell on the issue of cash handling itself. I think that the discussion on this issue has been a little unfair to the banks. There are a number of banks that are actually offering this service today and intend to continue doing so. I can mention Swedbank Sjuhärad, for example, at home in my constituency, who has no plans to stop cash handling as long as customers demand it. But of course this is a problem, well described by both Håkan Svenneling and Anette Åkesson and Emil Källström earlier in the debate. I myself exercised about a need for some kind of regulation already in 2014. Although it sounds a bit bleak in the debate, particularly on the part of Håkan Svenneling, I must say that I take a rather positive view of this. Håkan Svenneling also said a little about it at the end. I think it feels good that all parties now seem to be on the track and actually see the problem. It is a social problem that is rapidly growing, as we were reminded by the Riksbank last time they visited the Finance Committee. We made an attempt a few years ago to make an announcement in the Finance Committee, the Alliance together with the Left Party. It was stopped by the Swedish Democrats, who supported the government's line. That's why we didn't get anywhere with that announcement. We considered whether to do so even this year, but we did not feel that it was a way forward at this point. The problem with the Left Party's proposal for legislation is that you make it a little too easy for yourself. It could be all wrong. We know that there is a risk of legislating an obligation for all banks to have cash management that it would be quite unfair between the banks. We also know that there are a number of niche banks which, even when they started, had no plans whatsoever to operate a cashier service and do not have that possibility today. They simply do not have such a structure that they can have any cash at all. What came out in the shift between Håkan Svenneling and Emil Källström, this about collaboration between different actors, I think is the only way forward. I see an opportunity because the banks are cooperating on an ATM system. They could also cooperate on a cash management system. In places where there are a number of different bank accounts, it should be agreed that one of those offices offers cash services and that the banks share the cost of this, perhaps together with other operators. I believe that there is every opportunity to move forward. I take Emil Källström's promise seriously when he says that he intends to propose a partial report. Otherwise, I actually share Håkan Svenneling's and also the Riksbank's concern that it will take far too long before this major investigation, which should not be completed for a few years, is completed. So a partial report is probably an absolute requirement. Then I think we should look forward to inviting Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund to the committee in the near future and ask him how the government intends to act on this issue, as we actually agreed in the Committee on Finance. Let us now take the chance to listen to what he says! And if we are not satisfied with what he says, then we will have to come back to the Committee on Finance.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-677	Mr. Old President! I support Amendment No 1, and otherwise I support the report on behalf of the Green Party. Today we can say that we have a patent mouse test ahead of us, which is about whether we are serious about phasing out fossil fuels from the transport sector – yes or no. This concept, which we have talked about many times in this House, was launched in an annex to a budget proposal from the Alliance Government. In the past, there was an overall climate target for the whole transport sector, but under the alliance government the target was changed: a fossil fuel independent vehicle fleet. It was a little unclear what this meant, thought many, including the then government, so an investigation was set up that resulted in a report: Fossil Freedom on the Move, SOU 2013:84. This report we debated last week, and I believe that no one said anything but that it is clear that we do not want a future transport system that is vulnerable, that has a negative impact on the climate or that is causing environmental damage to people, which the burning of oil actually gives rise to in the form of harmful air pollution. However, it is one thing to support an overall objective and quite another to support the measures that lead to it. Although there is much more to be done, I would like to say with determination that the Cooperation Government has launched several different proposals which, if implemented, reduce dependence on fossil fuels in the transport sector. We also have before us a new national plan for 2018 – 29, where the government has good opportunities to make it easier for both companies and individuals to move with less climate impact by concentrating on developing new main roads and railways. But what we are going to debate today are road and vehicle issues, and how does this relate to each other? Well, it is connected in that it is about the distribution of transport between road, rail and maritime. Energy consumption differs drastically, and the amount of fossil fuels for transport of the same number of tonnes is very different depending on whether one uses road, rail or shipping. In fact, shipping is best in that friction is very small when a ship meets water, if the ship does not have too high speed. Then comes the railway. Steel wheels against rails are also very energy efficient. For rubber wheels against asphalt, on the other hand, and even more for aircraft against air, the energy consumption is much greater. That is the background or main reason why the cooperation government says that it is important that the distribution between road, rail and maritime is such that dependence on fossil fuels is reduced. We may not be able to boast that this is the cooperation government's own discovery, but this has been written in reports from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Trafikverket, Vägverket– well, basically all, for a very long time: To achieve climate targets and reduce dependence on oil, it is important to reduce long-distance truck transport and promote a better combination of road, rail and shipping. How do you do that? The FFF investigation, which I can understand was the flagship of the Center Party under the previous government, speaks very clearly of the 2012 Swedish National Audit Office saying that an increase in truck transport and a strong growth in freight transport according to available knowledge is likely to be difficult to reconcile with the climate targets. The Finnish Transport Agency points out that traffic development is not compatible with the climate targets if the projected increase in long-distance road transport is taken into account. This is why the study proposes various things: firstly, mileage taxes for truck transport, but also other instruments aimed at improving the competitive position of rail and maritime transport with regard to road transport. What, then, is the government's proposal? Yes, the government is interested in the climate goals but also that it works well for business, entrepreneurship and employment. Is this possible to combine? Yes, it does. It has been looked at where it might be useful for trucks to be heavier and has seen that it is primarily when transporting forest raw materials for processing. There, in principle, at the points pointed out in the Swedish Transport Administration's investigation, rail and shipping are not available alternatives. The government has therefore welcomed the introduction of a new load class in order to be able to use longer or heavier trucks in this particular context. We point out that it is a matter of caring for the roads, but also of ensuring that the increased opportunities for heavy goods vehicles do not lead to transport being taken from shipping and rail. Why do we do that? That's because the roads are actually not just for trucks. For people outside the cities, the roads may be crucial to getting to and from work or study and to socializing and meeting. The roads are also for two-wheeled vehicles with and without motor and for buses. This must be taken into account when drawing up transport rules. It seems to me very strange that in this context the Alliance has so little respect for the fact that rural people need roads for their own transport. We have every reason to take responsibility for the business community, but it is actually the people who live outside the cities who need long-term sustainable roads. I didn't know much about this when I entered the Riksdag in 1998, because in Skåne we don't have frost damage on the roads; we don't have such a climate. But in quite a large part of Sweden it is important to protect the road when it commutes between plus and minus and is partially frozen and not bit by bit. Then the roads are fragile. This is why many countries are resisting heavier transport: it damages not only the surface of the road, but also the road body itself. A few years ago I wrote a parliamentary motion on long-term sustainable roads, and then I had reason to understand these connections a little more. We should respect this very much so that we do not increase the weight of lorries except when it is really necessary. This assessment has been made by the government in the proposal put forward, and this is also what we support in reservation No 1. This is the lacquer mouse paper: Is it serious about fossil freedom on the way or not? One cannot say, on the one hand, that we want to reduce the use of fossil fuels in freight transport and, on the other hand, that one mode of transport should have greater capacity without any change for the other two. Then you don't mean it. I would also like to raise another issue. It's about bus traffic. Fortunately, there is an increased demand for bus services, and periodically buses find it difficult to accommodate enough passengers. Therefore, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate the possibility of having trailers or longer buses. It is quite common in Germany and some other countries. It seems to me quite cost-effective that, instead of always driving on long buses, you can have a trailer bus at peak hours. This has been investigated by the Swedish Transport Agency, and I know that the matter is being prepared in the Government Office. It is a point that we allow bus services to be competitive. It is a point to take into account the speed of the different modes of transport, if we are serious about people being able to switch car commuting for public transport commuting. It would then seem inappropriate to limit the speed to 60 kilometres per hour on roads which allow considerably higher speeds for car traffic. From the point of view of road safety, it is also a point that the different vehicles have as much speed as possible. Longer buses are considerably safer than double-decks, especially in rural areas, where there can be a lot of wind. We experience it in Skåne. We like to ride with our new double tires, Skåneexpressen, but they are very wind sensitive. Perhaps some of them would be longer buses instead of higher ones.
i-6ouQPcBExMpzPAfJuhFkt4	Mr. Old President! We shall now take a position on the Transport Committee's report 14 Road and vehicle issues. This report also contains the Government's proposal 2016/ 17:112 Freight transport issues. Let me first of all support the committee's report in all its parts, except where we have reservations. I therefore also support reservation 1. Of course, I am also in favour of reservation 4, but in favour of time, I am only in favour of reservation 1. In its explanatory statement in support of the government's proposal for the carriage of goods, the committee points out that the decision to allow 74 tonnes of lorries on our roads should open up the entire road network to this traffic from the date on which it was decided to allow 74 tonnes of lorries on our roads. I think it would be very unfortunate if we went on that line. First of all, large parts of the public and municipal road network do not hold a standard that enables this heavier traffic. Both old roads and bridges as well as road drums do not have the quality that this heavier traffic would be possible. But open where it holds, says the committee. Nor is that a responsibility's full line. Firstly, it costs money, and there is no common alliance or SD funding for this. It is these parties who are behind the announcement that the committee wants to give to the government. Secondly, it is stated in its explanatory statement that it would not then be necessary to display the roads in order to tell us where the traffic is possible. However, this can only be done if, at the same time, electronic restrictions on where to drive are proposed. There are no such proposals. This, too, costs money, and there is no common funding here either, so perhaps it all falls on its own absurdity. We on the government side believe that we are now implementing a first step with a well-defined road network that is being opened up. Let us then take the opening of more roads at the pace that the economy, road safety, sustainability and industry's needs allow and motivate. I can see, for example, that eastern Norrbotten, where neither rail nor shipping exists, could be an area under discussion for the next step. But this presupposes that one can have interconnected networks, where roads, bridges and roads can cope with this traffic. At present, I'm not quite sure it works even in eastern Norrbotten. The Finnish Transport Administration must show that it does so before you can open that network. Mr. Old President! In this context, I would like to warn directly that we in Parliament should interfere in traffic on individual routes. It is stumblingly close when you follow the interventions of the various lobby organisations on this issue and, in itself, the proposals of the majority. It must never and never be the task of Parliament to go into these detailed questions. Our discussion and decisions must be based on the principles. With this, I would like to say that it is a wise order that it is the Finnish Transport Administration and no one else who decides which roads and under what conditions these roads should be used by heavier vehicles too. In this context, it should perhaps also be recalled that the measure to allow 74 tonnes on our roads is based on three principles: it should be good for the climate and the environment, it should promote road safety, and it should not jeopardise future values of sustainability and sustainability. It is in the light of these values that we are now proud to be able to take the decision to allow 74-ton sekipage on our roads. Mr. Old President! This report also addresses the issue of longer vehicles, especially longer lorries. Here we need to raise the finger of warning for the too generous use of longer vehicles. If you allow them, there is a risk that we would have a market where foreign tractors would enter Sweden and drag around different trailer structures. There is also no government proposal on this issue. I think that it would have been possible to investigate this with longer vehicles at the same time as investigating the issue of heavier vehicles, but it did not do so in the investigation that forms the basis of the freight bill. I can have some understanding of this precisely in view of the fact that the risk of the transfer of goods from rail to road is considerably greater with longer vehicles than with heavier vehicles. In addition, as I have just mentioned, there is the risk of towing vehicles, which the trade unions have very serious reservations about. Surely no one wants to contribute to a situation where the longer vehicles would be used for something that we do not really want. On the other hand, I would imagine that we are using longer vehicles explicitly for the forestry industry. This could be done through exemption procedures or by other means. In addition, it would significantly reduce emissions per tonne of forest raw material transported if we could do so. This has been demonstrated by the ongoing trials. But on this issue we will have to come back when they are on the table. It does not today, except for exercise. We believe that these motions should be rejected in the form they are in, but we look forward to serious evaluation of the experience of the ONE attempt. Mr. Old President! In this report, we are also dealing with some other issues. I was going to dwell on three of them. The first concerns self-driving cars. In the debate, it sometimes sounds like self-driving cars are a quick fix and that many of today's problems could be solved by means of them. These are environmental issues, road safety, accessibility, etc. You can probably put it all on self-driving cars to some extent. I must say that I do not really see these rapid gains. Self-driving cars are something that comes – we can agree on that. It's good in every way. But it is also the case that many of the problems we see today will remain. What's the time perspective? I have no crystal ball so that I can see into the future, but I can see that for a very long time there will be both ordinary conventional cars, with or without autonomous aids, and cars that are self-driving. One way or another, they have to get along in traffic. As long as this is the case, the great benefits that we can hope for will not be fully realised, at least not fully. As I see it, there is a need for extensive international work on standardisation and legislation in this area. Otherwise, the market will not exist, and it is precisely the market for the new that must exist in order for ordinary people with ordinary incomes to be able to demand the new self-driving cars. You're supposed to add law to that. What happens when the accident arrives? Who's in charge? Here, too, there must be international coordination, so that we have similar or completely equivalent legislation, at least in Europe. Mr. Old President! I shall turn to two minor issues in this report. The first of them concerns winter tires. I have nothing to add to what is written except that we already get the first few days in May the Swedish Transport Agency's report on winter tires on more axles when it comes to heavy vehicles. I do not know what will be said in it and therefore cannot anticipate anything. But I think it would be good if, in any case, the steering wheels were subject to the winter tyre requirement – we will see what happens. I also think that there is something in the arguments I have received that it is not reasonable to allow the use of dubb-free winter tyres on summer roads, from the point of view of road safety and the environment. It should be prohibited to drive even with this type of tyre from the point of view of the dubbing ban. The last question I would like to touch on concerns snowmobile traffic. What I am about to say now is my personal point of view. It does not support what is written in this opinion. For some reason, the motion I wrote ended up in our committee. It should have ended up in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture according to the order of preparation that we had. But that was not the case. That is why I intend to give some thought to this. We have a growing number of deaths in snowmobile accidents in our country every year. It is not the case, as you might think from the text of the report, that it is only in the mountains that the snowmobile is used and accidents occur. A large part of Sweden is affected. Even a large proportion of tourists use snowmobiles. Annually, the number of snowmobiles in Sweden increases. That alone really justifies action. I therefore think that some form of investigation should be set up to look into this. This applies to trails, so that we get safe snowmobile traffic, and signposting, so that you can find properly along the snowmobile trails. We should also look at the issues surrounding the snowmobile as a vehicle. It has not been done in Sweden for a long time. As I said, these are my own views on the matter. We may have to come back to this.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-714	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would actually like to say what I think is good. It's that together we have introduced the possibility to drive 64 tons on our roads – I think that's good. I also think it is a good thing that there has been at least sometimes a willingness on the part of social democrats around the country to introduce 74 tonnes as well. But that's where what's good ends. When we get to the real work and practical policy here in Parliament – it's about really making decisions and introducing this with 74 tons – the current government finds so many problems and so many exceptions that it becomes almost impossible to introduce this at all. Sweden has two of the world's largest truck manufacturers – Scania and Volvo Trucks. These companies employ thousands of people in Sweden, both directly in companies and in companies' subcontractors. The automotive industry is important for Sweden, for our growth and for our well-being. We'll take care of one. We will also take care of the jobs we have in Sweden and ensure that we best support and develop the truck industry and our automotive industry. We have a great knowledge and a long history and are good at building vehicles here in Sweden. We'll be proud of that. Mr. Old President! In this report, we are dealing with proposal 112 on freight transport and on how we can make it possible to drive heavier vehicles, up to 74 tonnes, on our roads. The report also addresses other road and vehicle issues. We Moderates and Alliance and SD want to make it possible to drive heavier trucks in Sweden. It strengthens our competitiveness, reduces our environmental impact and also contributes to the development of our automotive industry. But what are the government, S, MP and V trying to do? Well, they're trying to limit the ability to drive heavier trucks. And it would not be allowed if they could in any way compete with shipping or trains. The Alliance Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency to review how we can increase the gross weight to 74 tonnes already on 10 April 2014. The Swedish Transport Agency would report on this. It was about which roads were suitable for these heavier trucks. This was reported to the Government in August 2014. So that part of the operation had already been looked at. We changed the government after the elections, and then nothing happened. However, in April 2015, the decision to introduce 64 tonnes was taken on 1 June 2015. It was, as I said at the outset, good. It should also be mentioned that for a long time there have been experiments here in Sweden with both longer and heavier trucks. All trials show clearly positive results. But then the government woke up until 13 May 2015. The Swedish Transport Administration was commissioned by the Government to see which roads were possible and to investigate the consequences. But then apparently, Mr. Age President, the government had a new conversation with the Green Party. Then there were suddenly new directives. On October 3, they wanted an addition to the investigation. It was a question of not driving on roads that could compete with rail or shipping. With this addition, the possibility of introducing this was considerably reduced by the fact that 74 tonnes of lorries could be driven in Sweden in a reasonable manner. There are several investigations that show how bad this could get. It is a completely ill-considered proposal without any kind of impact assessment. Trafikverket then reports the assignment. Only 8% of the state road network and 17% of the total road length in the counties concerned could then be used if the government's principles and conditions were followed. Of course, we Moderates and the Alliance could not accept this. Mr. Old President! What is possible in Finland for a few years should obviously be impossible here in Sweden, with the current government. Driving with longer and heavier trucks benefits both the environment and competitiveness. We already have exceptions today in order to be able to drive longer lorries than the rest of Europe. However, we also have long journeys in our large and elongated country that require the truck and that this transport system must continue to develop. Instead of strengthening the competitiveness of our haulage companies and our companies, as has been done in Finland, the proposal is being used to make the truck industry even more difficult. Today, our hauliers are already fighting hard against both legal and illegal transport on our roads. We need more skilled traffic police to stop illegal traffic. We need more competent prosecutors who can take on these traffic targets. We need to get the alcoboms up at our border stations. But nothing happens. We Moderates want further and heavier trucks and have prioritised this in our draft budget with SEK 300 million annually to strengthen our road system. We also want to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry and our Swedish companies. We simply want to keep jobs in Sweden! We also want to move forward with the work to electrify our roads and thereby further strengthen competitiveness while reducing the environmental impact. That is why the Moderates and a majority in the Transport Committee have said no to the government's proposal to restrict where 74-ton trucks can drive. We say that it is the road and its bearings that must decide this and not the government with the Green Party at the wheel. We also make an announcement that work on longer lorries must be speeded up. The Alliance issued an announcement on longer trucks on 1 May 2015. After two years nothing has yet happened, and so there will be a new announcement here today that the government will urgently produce proposals for longer transport and enable them. It is time for the government to start working so that we do not have to stand here and run over the government by making decisions directly in this House without going through investigations and the work a government is actually going to do. We have a large and important forest industry in this country that is in great need of being able to take a trove out of the forest. This is good for the forest owner, it is good for the countryside, it is good for the haulage industry and it is good for our forest industry. Our forest creates much of our wealth and must have good conditions to cope with competition, not least from Finland. Mr. Old President! Other things that we are fighting for in this report are that it should be easier also to drive longer buses in this country. Today we have a rule of maximum 18.75 meters. We want to simplify the whole process in order to use longer buses. We Moderates and the Alliance also stress that we want a clear strategy and a trial on self-driving cars. Of course, the anti-motorist government also rejects this proposal. What are you trying to slow down? Why is it against development? Our automotive industries work actively to solve this, while the government opposes it and refuses to accept its responsibility for progress. Technology developments often have implications for the transport system and it is important that policies take account of new technologies and develop legislation that is adapted accordingly. Within the Alliance, the view is that the development of autonomous vehicles can have a profound impact on the whole road transport system. Both passenger and freight transport would benefit from more autonomous vehicles. The ongoing test operation with self-driving vehicles in Gothenburg shows that Sweden is at the forefront of technology development, which is gratifying. Future technology brings with it opportunities as well as challenges for how we plan the transport infrastructure. At the same time, there are a number of legal and road safety aspects that need to be taken into account. The starting point for self-driving vehicles should be fundamentally positive when testing new technologies. We believe that ongoing self-driving trials should be encouraged and expanded. To ensure that Sweden can continue to assert itself in this area, and that the benefits offered by technological development are exploited, we therefore call on the government to develop a comprehensive strategy for self-driving vehicles. No one can be against this. This is the development of our automotive industries in Sweden. Mr. Old President! I'll give you a brief summary. We Moderates therefore want to be able to drive trucks up to 74 tonnes on the roads that can handle it. We also want the government to speed up its efforts to be able to drive longer trucks in order to increase competitiveness and reduce the environmental burden. We also want a clear strategy and experimentation for the autonomous cars to be developed. We want to make it easier to drive more and longer buses in Sweden. We Moderates also want to facilitate our veteran vehicles and therefore have a review of them in order to facilitate the operation and this interest. We also want to highlight the importance of the operation of the individual road network and of helping to finance the fine-meshed road system. This is where many of our days begin – just out on the fine road network in Sweden, on the individual roads. To conclude, I naturally support all of the Moderate reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 6.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-749	Mr. Old President! We can agree on one thing, Sten Bergheden and I, and that is that in 2006–2014 we had a moderate-led alliance government in Sweden. I don't think Sten Bergheden in any way denies that, because that was the case. Then there are some other things that I would like Sten Bergheden to remind me of, because I may have a bad memory. During this time, during these eight years, how many decisions did the government make to allow heavier vehicles in Sweden? It is a simple question that I wonder if Sten Bergheden can answer. My next question is: How many kilometres of road were opened to heavier vehicles, 64 or 74 tonnes, in Sweden during the same time, i.e. 2006 – 2014? There were two very simple questions with two very simple answers. Can Sten Bergheden answer them?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-754	Mr. Old President! That's right: we had an alliance government in 2006–2014. That's where we're in complete agreement. The difference was that the Alliance government was working on trying to make these decisions come true. Investigations were carried out, and this was made clear. This was served on the table in order to be able to make decisions in this House. Then, however, the accident was here in the country, and people went and voted for the Social Democrats instead and thus for a government that went and sat down on Rosenbad but ignored the implementation of what was actually finished and investigated on the table. We have the alcoboms, we have the closure of the police, we have the prosecutors who are still not working on traffic offences. We have just as many things, and nothing has happened! Leif Pettersson asks me how many decisions and how many roads. Yes, now is the time to make sure that there are really a number of meters of road that comes into the decisions after these investigations. We think that you have sucked long enough to come up with proposals. It is we who are making sure that the road system is opened up. You want to shut down the road system and that 74 tonnes should only apply to a few distances here in Sweden, which according to investigations would make it almost ridiculous. You would have to drive short distances and then transfer to a boat, railway or something else and continue, and then possibly get there with a truck again to drive the next route. This is not reasonable; everyone understands that. Finland can do this. That's where it's worked out. But in Sweden, with a Social Democratic Government and the Green Party at the wheel, the results are no better than this. That is the big problem, and then we are doing everything we can to help the government so that we actually get a good decision on this issue.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-761	Mr. Old President! Wrong answer, Sten Bergheden. Zero would have been the right answer to both questions. The Alliance did not make a single decision about a mile of road during your reign. That's what you did. You may have carried out an investigation, but as with all the other investigations, it is not certain that it has led anywhere. It was sloppyly made, and there was nothing to use. It is characteristic of the entire bourgeois period of government. Nothing was good, and nothing came out that could be used. You just ducked. The ONE trial lasted for several years. The government got reports of what happened. What did they say? Nothing. You didn't do anything. You read Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd's comments: I have received the investigation. Thank you very much. It was nothing else. Then there was the question of the alcoboms. The answer from Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd : It's too expensive, and we can't get into it. Thanks for the attempt in Gothenburg! That was her answer to that question. When the Moderates are in opposition, you enjoy it best, and there you should be. Then come the proposals on alcoboms, roads, 74 tonnes and so on. That's good. Sure! Go for us when we do things that are good. But, Sten Bergheden, do not stand there and claim that you would have done this much better. You have done exactly nothing on these issues. Look at the clapping tail that you started right before you lost government power. What did that turn out to be? Yes, there is something we must do again. We shouldn't really have let the bill through. Maybe we were a little too kind. We should have taken over and done the right thing, so that it had been more than 24 hours and not as it is now. But that was typical of the alliance government's way of working.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-767	Mr. Old President! Leif Pettersson stands here and says that nothing has happened. All investigations were complete. Then you took over. Now you've been sitting for three years. Is there any alcobom in Sweden? No, they have been lent to Finland by the government. They are tested in Finland. You couldn't pick up a single boom. I know how many meetings you attended. I guess it's just putting them up. We visited Volvo in Gothenburg and discussed longer and heavier trucks. Then it was no problem for Leif Pettersson in opposition to promise that the issue would be resolved. Now Leif Pettersson must obey the Government Office, and then it has proved completely impossible with the Environmental Party at the wheel to implement what Leif Pettersson talked about before the election. Leif Pettersson also raised the question of the clamping. How many people have not heard when Leif Pettersson and Anders Ygeman stood in Almedalen and in the rest of the country and said that when they take over they should go for real. Now this government has had three years in the past. The 24 hour question has not been resolved yet, and it has not really been successful. Before the elections, this issue was easy, but it is not as easy when you are in a government position in Rosenbad. Then nothing comes out, and the issue has not been resolved after three years – the one that was so incredibly easy to solve before the elections. Take advantage of the work we have done and the help we provide in the Alliance to get the 74-ton solution on our roads. I believe that Leif Pettersson is now tied up by the Green Party, and I think that you, Leif Pettersson, are pleased that the Alliance and a majority in the Committee on Transport are completely overstepping you on this issue.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-771	Mr. Old President! The Green Party protects all modes of transport for people to travel. I often talk about bicycle and public transport. But I also think it is important to protect passenger carism in Sweden. It requires that the roads are complete. Those who live outside the cities can't have potholes in the roads. I have been courted by many different groups from other parts of Sweden than where I live who complain about the condition of the roads. I've asked them when the potholes happen. Then a clear link has emerged with heavier trucks. I believe that it is anti-motorising to argue that the truck should have exclusive rights to the road. I think that all modes of transport should exist and that people who live outside the big cities should also be able to move in our road system. If you want to burden the roads more, you have to be a little honest and spend more money. Sten Bergheden refers to the fact that in Finland they are upgrading the bridges. Otherwise, the bridges will break. They are not dimensioned for such heavy cars as Sten Bergheden suggests. This requires spending much more money on maintenance. This is about road reconstruction. According to the Swedish Road Administration, a fully loaded 60 tonne truck represents 75 000 passenger cars. The passenger car is also entitled to the road system, not just the truck. I have a question for Sten Bergheden. I would like to know whether Sten Bergheden regards the United States as an anti-car country. Is that Sten Bergheden's opinion?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-775	Mr. Old President! Let me be clear. Well, the Alliance spent more money on the roads to renovate the system so that it can drive the heavier trucks. That was 300 million dollars a year. Karin Svensson Smith had seen this if she had read and considered our budget. Karin Svensson Smith and the Environmental Party reduced road maintenance by half a billion SEK while we added the corresponding money. There will be no fewer potholes in Sweden if you start to reduce the money to the roads and instead invest in a fast train between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Every expert and expert in this field says it doesn't make sense. Each bet gives 60 cents back. With that economy and if the Green Party continues to rule the country, Sweden will become poor fast. We'll bet on the roads. We have them in the budget. We are prepared to expand and arrange what is needed in this area. Then came a surprise, and I rejoice. Karin Svensson Smith initially said that she protects the cars. That's good. Welcome! It's extremely important. Now the autonomous cars are coming in. Then it is good that we are developing a strategy that you say no to. Do you really want to protect our passenger cars, take advantage of the jobs in the Swedish automotive industry and ensure that jobs stay in the country? Otherwise, someone else will work with those questions, and then there will be no job in Sweden. Welcome to the plane half that protects motorism in the country. That was a good statement by Karin Svensson Smith.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-780	Mr. Old President! I didn't get an answer as to whether the Moderates or Sten Bergheden consider the United States to be an anti-car country. I don't think anyone would say that. There's the maximum limit for trucks 36 tons. It is because you want the roads to remain in such a condition that the cars can also arrive without being confronted with damage in the road. It does not believe that there is an interest in raising taxes in order to repair roads. It should be something that falls the Moderates on their lip. It should reasonably be the case that we can expect the Moderates to protect Swedish haulage industry. But if we were to allow the longer trucks as you suggest, cross the border and hang on extra combinations and drive around in the Swedish road system, who would win and lose out on it? As far as I am concerned, it is the Swedish hauliers who follow the rules that exist now that would lose. We want to protect this industry and not expose it to unfair competition. I have one more question. If Sten Bergheden does not want to speak about the United States, perhaps he can answer the question: Is Switzerland an anti-business country? There are even lower maximum limits for lorries, and this is because they want to protect their Alpine landscape. Sten Bergheden seems to have missed that the business community is now quite interested in getting on the train when it comes to the big challenge of having fossil-free and climate-friendly transport. California was not forced to sign an agreement with the Swedish government on exchanges between trade, industry and technology, because the future lies there. That is why the government is on this side. If the Alliance prefers to look in the history books – à la bonheur! We invest in the future and a climate-friendly and fossil-free transport sector.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-785	Mr. Old President! Here we find out about the ideas and goals of the Green Party. Apparently, they're the ones who've run the bill completely. The aim is obviously to reduce the size of our trucks. The Green Party wants more small trucks, and I know that you have worked for 40 tonnes and European standards on these issues, Karin Svensson Smith. In Swedish industry and competitiveness, we are talking about the need to go the other way and have longer and heavier trucks in order to cope with this in the long term. Instead, you want there to be more trucks on the road. How do your cars fit on the road if you are going to split the long trucks into several small trucks that are going there? I think it would be good if the Green Party thought its whole policy through a little bit more and thought about its consequences, because it means that we lose competitiveness but also that there will be more vehicles along the way. Politics isn't connected there either. We've got 60 tons in this country. We have, as I said at the outset, for the reason that we have long distances. We have shipments to be carried out in Sweden in different ways, and we have to make sure that we keep up. The importance of our industry and our jobs to the country I raised in my speech. It seems that the Green Party is more concerned that we should have more smaller trucks here; that is the solution. It lifts up Switzerland and the United States, which have smaller trucks. They can have any size they want on their trucks, if I'm going to be really clear. I think it is good if our companies stay in this country so that we can produce prosperity and growth and have a competitive edge that holds. Then it is not the right way to reduce the size and weight of trucks and go down to more trucks with less competitiveness.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-791	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by saying that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservations 10 and 12. I was going to start by talking about heavier trucks and then go into longer trucks. The Government has commissioned Trafikverket to develop a road network where you should drive with heavier trucks and not compete with shipping and rail. As previous speakers here have mentioned, this is about 8% road. It's pathetic. It will be almost pointless to buy trucks that can operate on these roads. These are five areas with clusters in the north that are distributed downwards to Kalmar in the south. The advantage of the heavier trucks is to put on more wheel axles, which means that the road pressure is lower. Another advantage is that you carry more goods. If we were to choose to have only the 8% road network that the government has been discussing, there could be up to 1 000 tonnes of CO2 savings. If, instead, we do as the Parliament proposes, the forestry industry has calculated that there can be a saving of 44 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. It is surprising that the Green Party is not more in favour of this development. Above all, fewer transports are needed when there is more goods on each transport. The Swedish democrats do not understand why the entire road network has not been opened immediately. You get lower pressure on the road with more axles and fewer transports. So there will be less emissions and more efficient. Then I want to go in a little bit on longer vehicle trains. We know that, for example, Jula has tried. Much of their goods are transported from all over the world via the Port of Gothenburg and have been driven by truck from Gothenburg to Skara. This means a huge number of trucks running between the port of Gothenburg and Skara. Jula was granted an exemption to drive 2 times 40 feet, i.e. 12 meters container on a truck. This meant that Jula got a more efficient transport and, secondly, an environmental benefit by choosing to transport its goods from the port of Gothenburg to Falköping by rail. From Falköping they drive double containers at 40 feet to their central warehouse in Skara. They calculated an emission gain of nearly 90 percent — 90 percent! That's a lot. But Jula got a little taken by all the environmental benefits, so they didn't stop there. They saw that they could do a little more, so they switched to biodiesel, which meant they could save even more emissions. As I said, large and heavy trucks may not be synonymous with environmental benefits, but that is exactly what they are. Shipping more – carry less. What Jula did was to remove, in one stroke, 5,000 truck transports between Gothenburg and Skara. It's not bad. Then I want to talk a little about the Port of Gothenburg, which deliberately and aggressively tries to work with environmental objectives. During the time I worked in the port of Gothenburg they tried to get exemption to drive on longer vehicle trains, but that was not possible. The port of Gothenburg was not given the opportunity to drive such long vehicle trains. On the other hand, they had a good dialogue with Volvo, which had a terminal out in Arendal where they carried the goods from the terminal into the port of Gothenburg. During the time I worked, I saw vehicle trains at 3 times 40 feet. In the run-up to this debate, I thought I would have to talk to the port of Gothenburg and see if they had been granted an exemption now. I called them back, but no, they still haven't received a waiver. I asked the m: Do you continue to drive with 3 times 40 feet? They said: We have even had attempts where we have driven 5 times 40 back and forth. It is 5 by 12 meters, that is, 60 meters of container with a tow truck. It's awfully profitable, instead of driving with five tractors. Then I understand that it can be very difficult to solve this on all public roads. But do we not need to look at ways of granting exemptions where possible? As I said, the port of Gothenburg is trying to obtain an exemption for these vehicles, and I hope that it will succeed. But you can drive with longer vehicle trains today with the help of Volvo by driving on Volvo's land and then driving into your own land. As far as heavy vehicle trains are concerned, I am not at all concerned that they will compete either in rail or in maritime transport. On the contrary, it will benefit shipping. The railway is a bit difficult because today it is full. But I hope that we will expand the railways in the future. It is not sustainable as it is today. I do not mean high-speed rail, but rail, which can be run by anything. Mr. Old President! I'm gonna talk a little bit about A-tractors. We have had a category of epatractors that have disappeared and been replaced by A-tractors. We Swedish democrats want to increase the speed of A tractors to 45 kilometres per hour. It was gratifying to hear our committee member Karin Svensson Smith say that you could drive about the same speed with all vehicles on the road. If it's too high a differentiation of speeds, it's a danger. Today, mopeds are allowed to operate at 45 kilometres per hour. With the same driving licence you can drive a moped car, you can also drive an A ‐ tractor. We therefore find it perfectly reasonable that the speed of A tractors should be raised to at least 45 kilometres per hour, so that you are not in the way and perceived as a brake block for other cars. In addition, A-tractors are built from approved inspected cars, so some crash safety hazard is not with them. They're stable vehicles. There are also other advantages to increasing speed. You may need to exchange the cars so that there is a lower speed than you get today. Today, cars are almost maximum-speed, which means huge emissions plus the breakdown of these young people's engines. Mr. Old President! I will also touch the winter tires, which Leif Pettersson was on. It is gratifying that Leif Pettersson shares the view expressed in the Swedish Democrats' motion that winter tires should also be worn on steering wheels. Intimidatingly, we often read about trucking. When the first little winter snow comes, there are big headlines in the newspapers that trucks are standing still. There's no economy in it. We need trucks and road safety, we do not need the trucks in the ditch. Today there are winter tires on almost all wheels. Why not make the small addition that you should have winter tires even on controlling tyres? I hope that Parliament will support our motion on winter tires. Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson herself has pointed out that there is a major problem with trucks standing still.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-809	Mr. Old President! It is therefore time for a really good proposal for a majority decision in the Swedish Parliament. The proposal in the report actually means that Parliament will support the introduction of a new weight class, BK4, which increases the maximum load for Swedish cars and lorries from 64 to 74 tonnes for heavy commercial road transport. That's really good. In addition, this report calls on the government to step up its efforts to establish a regulatory framework for longer vehicles, up to 30 metres, on the Swedish road network. This position is good for development, for the Swedish base industry, for the forest, for the mineral industry, for the Swedish engineering industry, for jobs and for the climate. It means a political ambition for the whole country to live. As the representative of the Center Party in this debate, Mr President-in-Office, I am very pleased. The purpose of the legislative proposal is to make it possible to use heavier vehicle combinations than today. This will improve the efficiency of road transport. The new load class makes it possible to increase the quantity of goods on the individual vehicle. This means that fewer vehicles will be needed to transport the same quantity of goods. This will enable emissions from road transport to be reduced while reducing the transport costs of industry and increasing competitiveness and Swedish jobs. Mr. Old President! There was a catch in the government's original bill, a catch that the parliamentary majority will now change. In the original bill, the government stated that the opening of a road network for heavier vehicles should be guided by the principle that the transfer of goods from road to rail and maritime transport should not be threatened. This may sound good, but the practical meaning of the directives given by the Government to the Finnish Transport Administration was that only 8 per cent of the Swedish public road network was divided into five distinct geographical areas. Only that much would be allocated to trucks with a maximum gross weight of 74 tonnes. The industry, which was set to use this, called it the yarn ball without transport logistics. It is possible that it is an expression of lobbying when the forest industry, the transport industry and the engineering industry call it the ball without mutual transport logistics. As a representative of the Swedish Parliament, I think it is important also to listen to the heavy industry. Mr. Old President! Everyone understands that, in order for society to benefit from the heavier trucks, it is self-evident that a coherent line should be set up for vehicles. This should be done at the rate that road load can withstand the higher weight limits. The system must be coherent. The release must be in line with what the bearings allow. It is clear to everyone that restrictions other than the carrying capacity of the road are a mere catch-up policy, almost hokuspocus. If the road network becomes as empty as the government wanted, very few, if any, will find it meaningful to invest in modern, transport-efficient, climate-smart and larger vehicles. What, then, has led the government to put forward a fundamentally good proposal for an increased bearing class, but with such a crazy and for all outsiders incomprehensible limitation? Only 8% of the public road network would be covered. Yes, there was an ambition that this restriction should minimise the risk of transferring goods from rail and shipping to road transport. The logic of that restriction is like arguing that railway tracks should now be demolished in order to thus benefit shipping. As a center party, I believe that Sweden, the Swedish base companies and the people need all modes of transport in combination with each other. Of course, Sweden's transport policy cannot be based on the assumption that the modes of transport are competing with each other. Instead, the different modes of transport complement each other, much as Jimmy Ståhl described the example of Jula, with a combination of maritime transport, rail transport and truck transport to the final destination. That's how logistics is supposed to work. To make shipping and rail competitive by punishing road traffic is, in my opinion, a very crazy way to go. In addition, it is economically inefficient. Everyone understands that transfers between modes of transport take place in several directions and that good road connections are often a prerequisite for goods being transhipped to shipping and rail. Timber transport by truck in Smålands inland or Norrland inland provides ground for the transport of timber by rail to the coast, where most industries are located. By cutting off the possibility of transport efficiency in one mode, the whole is sabotaged. Who can even think of the absurd idea? Madam President, I would like What has led the government parties to land in their conclusions, representatives of these two have tried to sort out in the debate here today. I have to say that I have not understood the logic, despite persistent attempts. However, those of us who have developed the original proposal for something much better support what the Finnish Transport Administration itself writes in the report Enhanced analysis of allowing heavier vehicles on the public road network from November 2015. It states that the whole public BK1 road network should be opened up to a future BK4 road network. The Swedish Expert Authority emphasises that this would contribute to strengthening Swedish industry's international competitiveness and support continued productivity development. The Finnish Transport Agency proposes that the opening of the road network should be done in a step-by-step manner in which the future values of the infrastructure are not put at risk. The impact assessment in the report shows that raising the maximum authorised vehicle weight to 74 tonnes is economically viable. According to the Finnish Transport Agency's impact assessment, the reform also has positive environmental effects, in particular the reduction of both CO2 emissions and air pollution. Madam President, I would like The legislative change we are making here today is good for jobs, industry and the climate throughout the country. That is why I, as a centre party and representative of the majority line, am so pleased with the decision. I would also like to say a few words about the fact that the committee is proposing to the government to push ahead with the work on developing a regulatory framework for longer trucks too. In many contexts, longer lorries than are currently permitted could make heavy goods transport on the road more efficient. Above all, this would benefit the Swedish forest and ore industry, which has these very needs. It would also reduce transport costs, congestion and emissions. The State Transport Agency has investigated this by allowing longer trucks and concluded that the socio-economic benefit is very great with longer vehicles, since more goods are transported as piece goods and collected goods. The Finnish Transport Agency also notes that the socio-economic benefits would probably increase significantly if the proposed road network were to be opened up to 74 tonnes in a first stage also for longer journeys. They speak of up to 32 meters. The reason for this is that most transport on these roads has bulky goods and is more affected by the volume limits of the vehicle than by its weight limits. As if Transportstyrelsen and Trafikverket were not enough, one can also note that the University of Lund– we usually feel safe with what comes from there– in a study shows the benefits of allowing heavier trucks. The study has been conducted with 34 metres long vehicle trains and shows significant societal and climate benefits. Similar results have been found in experiments with vehicles of up to 30 metres for timber transport. I believe that those trials are made in the same constituency from which Mr Pettersson comes. The experiments showed that transport costs decreased by good 20 per cent while emissions decreased by up to 15 per cent. I must say, Madam President, who can resist such development potential? Common sense, government studies and research thus support a policy of increased transport efficiency, improved economics and climate benefits with longer and heavier vehicles. The question then is why the present government is so reluctant to do so. Almost two years ago, in May 2015, the Riksdag instructed the Government to review the need for more generous exemption and further investigation into the issue of allowing vehicle combinations of up to 30 metres. However, we note that after almost two years the government has still not taken any concrete action. Through its report of 2014, the Swedish Transport Agency has provided a very solid basis for the continued work on allowing longer trucks, and in my view and the majority of the committee, it is therefore important that the government now rushes on with the issue and looks at how longer trucks can also be allowed on our roads. For this reason, the government in this report is given the chance again by a new announcement that the government should urgently review how longer vehicle trains can be allowed to a greater extent in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the centre-party and alliance-labelled reservations, but for time-winning, I only call for reservations 6 and 7.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-829	Madam President, I would like The Center usually excels by trying to say that you are the green voice of the Alliance. And that can be considered in some respects. This investigation, as I understand it, was by far the most in eight years of alliance government, I'm pretty sure where the Center's initiative was. It was also Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt who received that investigation. There's plenty of good ideas there. The government that I support has implemented many of those proposals or is in the process of doing so. You didn't have time to do anything. But it can be difficult to catch up with sometimes, Anders Åkesson. But I wonder: have you discussed with Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt the distribution of freight between road, rail and maritime transport and to what extent this distribution has an impact on the amount of fossil fuels used? The railway uses very little fossil fuel. There are some places where we have not had time to electrify, but with the railways being so very energy-efficient, it is negligible in terms of fossil fuel. Shipping certainly runs on bunker oil, with the exception of Viking Grace type, but it is very energy efficient. The large use of fossil fuels in the freight transport sector accounts for trucks. Then it is a mystery to me that the Center, which has retentions on being a green voice, only wants to take an interest in the road taking larger shares of the railways and shipping. I wonder if Anders Åkesson knows what the development has been like in recent decades. Unfortunately, the road has taken all the additional goods. How does that fit with the Center's environmental profile?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-832	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Svensson Smith for her assessment of the Center Party as the Green Voice of the Alliance. I'm glad. Yes, Madam President, I have both read and followed the work on the FFF investigation. A very important principle in it and in the work of the then Minister Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt was never ever to set transport modes against each other but to pursue a policy of increased transport efficiency, improved transport economy and increased environmental benefit in all modes of transport. In some ways, Madam President, the Green Party in the government is given the floor to the view that by slowing down one mode of transport it is beneficial for the others. The policy of the Alliance and the Center Party is to provide resources for development, technology gains and capacity increase to all modes of transport in order, for example, to switch Sweden to a bioeconomy. In order for us to meet the objectives set in the UNFCCC, the entire area of Sweden is required to be used. This requires a combination of climate-smart, transport-efficient and economically sustainable modes of transport across the whole surface, which requires all modes of transport. It does not teem with ports in the interior of Norrlands or Småland. It requires a combination of road and rail transport to be able to process raw materials into biodiesel and make the finest chips into paper or wood products to ship out across the world. The forest industry is Sweden's largest net donor to our export earnings. The forest industry is turning fully into a bioeconomy. The forestry industry depends on a combination of transport.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-837	Madam President, I would like We really care about the business community. But I do not understand in what way it is bioeconomy that ready-made houses in Piteå should go by truck to southern Sweden instead of by shipping or why one should load the road network with things that would rather have gone by rail. Previous train commuters between Malmö and Stockholm are now being replaced by 34 trucks. It is about cost-effectiveness, because the same transport should not be carried out several times, Anders Åkesson, but you choose road, rail or shipping or different combinations of these. The point of the investigation, which the Cooperation Government affirms in all material respects, was to find the combination of road, rail and shipping that has as little fossil content as possible. That's why the investigation is proposing mileage taxes on truck transport. If we were to follow Anders Åkesson's suggestion that the trucks should be both larger and longer, then you have to increase the kilometre tax even more. I don't think that's Anders Åkesson's intention. I have a question for Anders Åkesson, and that is whether he knows what the maximum limit is for lorries in the EU. It is usually said that Sweden should harmonise its rules with those of the EU. Does Anders Åkesson know that the maximum limit is 40 tonnes? Sweden is now exempting the forest industry, because we think it is so important to transport from raw materials to processing. But the Center goes exactly the other way with a very special solution that has brought nothing good, especially for the climate.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-843	Madam President, I would like It is well known that the Green Party is promoting the idea that Swedish trucks should have European standards. This means shorter trucks, cargo vehicles that load less, more vehicles on our roads and greater axle loads on our roads because there are fewer axles on such vehicles. The potholes that Karin Svensson worried about in a previous post would therefore be more with the European standard that the Green Party really wants. In Sweden, we have wisely gone another way, because we are an export-dependent surface-sized nation on the edge of Europe. We allow longer and heavier vehicles with a higher gauge, 4.5 metres in contrast to 4 metres in Europe. It has been a fundamentally very wise policy that has acquired Sweden's competitive advantage and given the Swedish automotive industry the opportunity to continue to develop and file on the vehicles in order to make them climate-smarter and more transport-efficient. That's the way we're going to move on. That's the Center's line. I do not understand why the Green Party has been caught up in a hit-and-run policy that does not endorse technology development and environmental benefits. Karin Svensson Smith mentions the Piteå example. Lindbäcks Bygg expands very strongly in Piteå harbour and intends, as I have noted, to transport the housing modules on a boat to Mälardalen, which is the most rational. I met Moelven in Värmlandsnäs a couple of weeks ago. They use the E45 to transport their house modules to Mälardalen. The example of Jula, which was used earlier in the debate, is a shining example of the combination of modes of transport – shipping, rail, truck – to achieve climate gains. That's the way we're going, Karin Svensson Smith.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-850	Madam President, I would like As I said in a previous line, I think that to the reluctance of this government, which Anders Åkesson talked about in his speech, he will probably add reluctance to rob his own government in 2006–2014. Not much came out in this area throughout that reign. It came a little bit at the end, when you realized you'd probably lose the election. After the Parliament had closed for the year 2014, there were a lot of proposals, but then it was time. Then we couldn't make any decisions. I would like to ask Anders Åkesson who he thinks should make the decisions on which routes 74-toners should be allowed and also at what rate. Åkesson himself said in his speech, and then quoted Trafikverket's writing, that it should be done step by step. What is the first step in Anders Åkesson's performance world? What's the first step? And what about the second, third, fourth and fifth? Or maybe it's just a step. In that case, I think it's something we can't handle in this country. There is a preference to refer to Finland. It is said that Finland has done this. No, they haven't. Finland allowed it everywhere, but it is not possible to use 76-tones in Finland, because it is not economic in it. Most Finnish riders invest 68 tons to get on bridges, roads and road tunnels wherever they need to get there. It is not at all the case that in Finland the limit is used.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-853	Madam President, I would like During the period 2006 – 2014, Leif Pettersson, started the KNEG project, the fantastic development work that we both enjoyed so much. It was terminal driving in Pettersson's part of the country with long vehicles, it was exemption for 74-ton driving in South Sweden, it was longer vehicles between Gothenburg and Malmö. One could fiddle and develop the technology, measure road safety and measure the climate. Many of these examples are now hacking their way, as the current government is unable to move from attempts to permanent legislation. The Finns have done a copycat on the entire investigation work that we jointly pushed on then. Madam President, I would like The current government's total reluctance to allow technology development, technological leaps, environmental benefits and transport efficiency is tragic. It is of course the Swedish Transport Administration that will decide on concrete routes at the rate that the bearing capacity allows. I can give you an example of a directive that the Leif Pettersson Government has admitted in the five balls, namely national road 25, which goes from Växjö to the coast in order to provide wood for the forestry industry on the coast of Småland. Where national road 25 passes a railway terminal makes the admissibility a small bubble, for rail and road may not be met. This means that the intermodal effects of shifting between road and rail in both directions that are possible with this technology will not be achieved at all. I am confident that we increased maintenance appropriations during the time when we were in charge of the country's rule. I am very concerned about the signals the Swedish Transport Administration is giving about a reduction in maintenance funding from the government.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-858	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to stick to the three principles that have been said to apply to 74 tonnes. They will contribute to better climate and environment. They shall contribute to better, or in any case not impaired, road safety. They should also protect long-term values, i.e. bearing power over time on the road. Then you have to ensure that you do not open the road system in an uncontrolled way. Then we can have comments on whether you have opened too little at the beginning or if you should have opened more. Perhaps you should have opened in eastern Norrbotten instead of southern Norrbotten or si or so. Sure – we can have those views, and I may also think that it might have been worth discussing. But I have also seen the Swedish Transport Administration's maps of Norrbotten and Västerbotten. Then I have seen what holes there are when it comes to the ability to drive with 74 tons. There are bridges, road drums and roads that do not meet the standards that they would need. This means that it has to be spent on money, it has to be examined and a better basis has to be found before it is possible to open roads that do not compete primarily with rail and maritime transport. However, shipping is perhaps a marginal problem in this context. I want to correct Anders Åkesson when it comes to Lindbäcks Bygg. They intended to ship the goods by boat, but for environmental reasons it is not possible. I'm afraid there's too much air to carry. With the conditions in place for shipping, it will not be possible, but you have to send on the road anyway. There is one more thing: the mining industry is not at all interested in longer vehicles, but only in heavier ones.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-862	Madam President, I would like Leif Pettersson mentions three principles: climate, road safety and bearing capacity. It's obvious. But then let Trafikverket, Transportstyrelsen, research at the University of Lund and so on – those that we have as a basis for this and who are the experts we have – together with the industry get to push this forward, Leif Pettersson! Do not give them strange instructions from the Government Office which lead to strange bubbles and bends in the way every time the highway meets a railway terminal. That's completely unreasonable. This leads to an extremely counterproductive development. I know that the conditions for forestry, for example, differ across the country. You do it in different ways, it's different heights and so on. But I have met similar discussions in southern Sweden where people drive remotely with heavier vehicles. There the forest industry with Trafikverket has been able to find sensible paths to use. There are limitations because you have uncertainty in the carrying capacity of the bridges, but you always work your way forward and get a good basis for where the bearing money should be used. Madam President, I would like I think that Leif Pettersson, as the representative of the Social Democrats, should join in a positive development policy for the country's basic industry, jobs, development and transition to climate smart instead of lending himself to some find-out policy with strange limitations. It just goes backwards. It is possible to vote in the vote next week with the main majority. That would be very funny.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-865	Madam President, I would like As far as self-driving cars are concerned, which are nowadays mentioned in every context – even on railway day, which I really find strange – the Left Party is not opposed to the new technology and its development. But we want to problematize it. After all, public transport is more efficient than turning a lot of self-driving cars around in cities if you think about surface efficiency, which we are very much protecting in our cities. We would also like to highlight the fact that there have been accidents in several self-driving car trials. The attempts now to be made in Gothenburg in real traffic must have safety margins and drivers who can adjust if something goes wrong. We do not want to see more personal accidents involving vulnerable road users when it comes to self-driving cars. Electric roads, as has been mentioned here from the Alliance, will probably be needed in the future. But they can never compete with trains. Technology must be safe and economical before we introduce it. Unfortunately, in the case of 74 tonnes, the rules on professional transport are not being complied with today. It is loaded for large overweight, 40 percent drive too fast and 20 percent have an unsatisfactory loading and securing. This is particularly true in the construction and steel industries. Therefore, better control of these vehicles is needed, in particular if 74 tonnes are to apply. I would therefore like to point out that it is important to commission the Finnish Transport Administration to introduce digital registration, so-called ITK, on the new trucks in order to also be able to study how they affect bridges and infrastructure. In this way we can have better anticipation. An important point on this issue is that we would like the Finnish Transport Agency to follow a strategy when introducing 74 tonnes, which means promoting transhipment to shipping and rail and making it as effective as possible. Researchers in the state-owned HCT project have looked at this. It is a particular research group that has not been much talked about, and their research has not been given much prominence. But it is extremely important. Every time we have introduced heavier and longer lorries, we have seen a massive shift from rail to road. So this is a research group that has looked at how we can counteract this. This can be done by simply strengthening nodes and roads that go towards shipping and rail for transhipment. One should have a strategy that prioritises these reinforcements instead of, as the Alliance now wants, also investing in the European roads that run along the railways and our coasts and shipping. That is exactly what is threatening and means a greater transfer from rail to road again. As we have heard here before, 70 – 80% of our freight traffic today is on lorries. That's completely unreasonable. It is not energy efficient, it is actually more expensive in terms of resources and it is not environmentally friendly. It is clear that it is good that the trucks themselves are energy efficient. That is why the Left Party has reached a balanced position on this with 74 tonnes: we want to allow it in those parts of the country where it is needed for, for example, the forest industry. But you should listen to the research team and strengthen the routes that go to transhipment to shipping and rail as soon as possible. We will use the truck where it is suitable but use rail and shipping where it is appropriate. Many heavy bodies such as the UN climate panel, VTI, many researchers at KTH and a wide range of other bodies also point out clearly that it will not be technology development that will allow us to reach climate targets in time because it is so urgent. We need community planning, and we need more rail and more public transport for the entire transport system. It's important to remember. I'm going to come in for the car inspection. Together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, we were opposed to the liberalisation of car inspections from the outset. However, we do not support the motion in the report for a review of this because it has recently been made. We do not think, however, that liberalisation is a good model. The review shows that the price of car inspection has gone up, just as for so many other liberalised activities such as mail, IT and more. In countries that have liberalised vehicle inspections, the prices for inspecting their cars have risen by 50 to 100 per cent. In Finland, liberalisation has led to prices rising from EUR 17 without VAT in 1994 to around EUR 46 including VAT in 2007. That's an increase of 270 percent. There are only two players, which now have 80% of the market in Finland. It is therefore more expensive and yet no increased competition after liberalisation. This does not seem to the Left Party to be wise politics. We do not leave a specific reservation in this report, but this is something that we will discuss in the future. As for individual roads, I was just up in Dorotea discussing mileage taxes. There I heard about how they have invested in expanding roads that no one uses. It is sad when we put tax and our common funds on routes that no one uses, especially in areas where the railways in particular would need to be expanded and roads made road safe. It is important that we have ground contact in the community building even up in Norrland, which is far from Stockholm. It is sad that the infrastructure in Norrland is so poor. I'm a climate friend and I'd rather not fly, but it was almost impossible to go to Dorotea without taking the flight. It is another debate, but the fact that the transport network in Sweden is equal throughout the country is something that we really need to prioritise. We are in favour of this report, but I would nevertheless like to highlight, as regards road planning, which is also mentioned in this report, that it is sad that the Finnish Transport Administration has become more centralised than the Swedish Road Administration was. It'll make us have less ground contact. When it comes to the decision around this particular road in Dorotea, it was probably the county administrative board on which it depended. However, I would like to raise the issue that it is important that we strive for models when we put investments on the roads that make us really in touch with the needs of the local population and that we do not waste tax money. Traffic planning of both cycle path and road as well as public transport must be appropriate and based on the needs of local travellers. It is good that a work will now be done to review the Finnish Transport Administration's responsibility for state subsidies in terms of roads. However, the priority in the county plans should be based more on a more decentralised model with further local consultations on the priorities, in my opinion. Otherwise, I agree with the report, except that I wish to raise reservation 1 which the Left Party supports.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-883	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the post, Emma Wallrup! Every morning, my friends, millions of technicians, engineers and scientists around the world go to work in the firm ambition to develop, improve, trim, file, sharpen and make their part of the world a little, a little better and a little, a little smarter. They do this no matter who is president of the United States and so on. In her post, Emma Wallrup put no hope in technology development to achieve climate goals. Emma Wallrup believes that regulation is needed instead. Then my question to Emma Wallrup will be: Is it an official position of the Left Party that research is not important for, for example, climate gains? I would like to take this opportunity to correct this view with the examples of Volvo Trucks and Scania Trucks, which are world-leading vehicle manufacturers where engineers, technicians, behavioral scientists and economists every morning go to work in order to make the technology in these vehicles more energy-smart, more climate-smart, more driver-friendly and so on. Should we completely disregard the drive of the market economy that has created two of the world's leading vehicle manufacturers in our small country? Should we completely disregard that driving force according to the Left Party's view of research and development in order to achieve climate gains?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-887	Madam President, I would like No, we are absolutely not against technology development. On the contrary! Research should be listened to very carefully right now because we are facing a dangerous development. We're just tipping at the edge of whether or not we're going to have a civilization. Technology development is incredibly important, and it is needed as soon as possible. I think that politics, businesses, business and researchers should work together as much as possible and sit around the tables and talk about how we can support the business community to change as quickly as possible and how we can support the research that is needed. Perhaps it is not space rockets, space tourism and such things that are needed right now, but it is about supporting the important research needed for the survival of civilization. It's terribly important. It's just that the UN climate panel, VTI, researchers at KTH and a wide range of instances have said that technology development will not be enough. It is so urgent that we also need to make transport more efficient. There we are talking about social planning, and what we mean above all are road-to-rail investments. When we decided to build Bypass Stockholm, we went against Sweden's climate goals with only one infrastructure investment. The researchers talk about induced traffic, which means that the more roads you build, the more cars there will be on those roads. There is research that shows that it works that way. That's why community planning is important. We need to expand the railways, we need to expand public transport and we need to energy-efficientise the car fleet, both in the future and in the fleet of cars that exists here and now, in every way possible. I really want us to cooperate as much as possible across all bodies, but we also need regulations.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-892	Madam President, I would like My impression is not that space tourism is the main research area in Gothenburg or Södertälje, where two of the world's leading manufacturers of heavy goods vehicles work and develop daily within the laws and regulations that exist to make this technology better and smarter and vehicles technology-friendly, environmentally friendly and driver-friendly. It is good that Emma Wallrup dissociated herself from her anti-technology tone, which I actually understood in her speech. When it comes to forests and the bio-society, Emma Wallrup, Sweden as a nation has an obvious advantage over other countries that are also struggling to turn into a bioeconomy, i.e. an economy and a welfare that is not dependent on fossil fuels. In our country we have the obvious advantage of being able to use the surface, especially the forest – what grows and germinates and can be harvested and used without being consumed. In this economy and with this technology, the truck, the rubber wheel vehicle, is an obvious part and advantage. It does not teem with railway tracks or end up in the hinterland, either with me down in Småland or in Norrland or Uppland. Madam President, I would like Then I ask the question: why this hostile attitude precisely towards rubber wheels? It's some kind of hit-and-run politics. The Center Party and the Alliance are pushing for transport efficiency regardless of the mode of transport. They will work together for a better world and a better country. Why does this aversion have to the rubber wheel traffic?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-897	Madam President, I would like I think Anders Åkesson doesn't listen to what I'm saying. You heard wrong from the beginning, Anders Åkesson, when it came to me being anti-technology. It's quite the opposite. I said we need community planning along with technology. I said that we are in on 74 tonnes if you take it on forest roads and as soon as possible go towards transhipment to rail and shipping whenever possible. So it is exactly the opposite. We listen very carefully to the research that says it is extremely urgent. As I said before, it is extremely important that we sit down with industry – the automotive industry and all industries – and really speak constructively without any suspicions and actually discuss how to save this planet or rather our civilisation as soon as possible, because there is a terrible rush. Every civilization we have studied so far that has not regulated greed has perished. We have seen it in Rome, we have seen it on Easter Island and we have seen various indigenous peoples overexploiting their resources and perishing. I think a child can understand that if you put an end to all the resources you're supposed to live by, you're not going to survive. If you release so much carbon dioxide into the atmosphere that you remove the preconditions for farming and having infrastructure to storm and so on destroy the infrastructure, then you will not survive as a civilization. We need to create laws and rules in a reasonable way so that we promote change and make it easy to do right, easy to earn income and build society in the right way, but harder to do wrong because it is dangerous.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-902	Madam President, I would like It's a little empty in the parlour. Perhaps it is a sign that we should be brief; I do not know. I do not support the proposal contained in the report, except for the points on which the Liberals have a reservation. We are, of course, behind all reservations where the Liberals are themselves or in any constellation, but I am content to ask for the approval of reservation No 13 on winter tyres – I will come back to this – and reservation No 6, which is an alliance reservation on strategy and experimentation for self-driving cars. We are, I think, astoundingly agreed that it is good that we should introduce a new category of bearings, BK4, for 74-ton trucks that make it possible to use heavier vehicles and vehicle combinations to this day. It is both climate-smart and transport-efficient. It increases competitiveness and reduces emissions. So far, so good. Less well are the statements contained in the bill about limitations in order to be able to make use of the advantage of heavier vehicles. This must not mean moving goods from rail and shipping to lorries. For the Liberals, the underlying principle must be the quality of the road. Much has been said here that the roads are too bad, that bridges cannot withstand the pressure, that drums do not work, and so on. But it is not really a political issue. It goes without saying that if you allow 74-ton trucks to drive where you can, they shouldn't drive where you can't. It is a technical issue, so I think that discussion is rather uninteresting from a parliamentary point of view. We have only to consider that 74-ton trucks are allowed in Sweden and that you can drive on the roads where it goes. That is to say, bearing is the principle that governs this. On the Liberal side, we expect the government to take note of the statements made by the committee on this matter and to be involved in the further work on the introduction of the regulatory framework for 74-tonne vehicles. Madam President, I would like For the Liberals – and, I suppose, some others too – it is important to think cross-roads. This means that each mode of transport should be used optimally at any given time, and then we are talking about both transport efficiency and environmental and climate considerations when it comes to emissions. But it should not be based on preventing the development of one mode of transport simply because it could compete with another. There is no contradiction in this. From the Liberals' point of view, it is important to make as much use of shipping and the railways as possible and to transfer them to shipping and rail. We see that it is a major part of the future potential of long-distance transport. However, this transfer must be based on developing the competitiveness and accessibility of rail and maritime transport, not only impairing the competitiveness of road transport. It is about the work and the sharp increases that were made on the operation and maintenance of the railways already in the time of the alliance government. It's a very important factor. Shipping also has an environmental lesson to do. Maritime transport is now developing rapidly in terms of both emissions and environmental aspects, but, historically speaking, maritime transport has not been environmentally friendly either. The environmental aspect has been that it has been possible to transport large quantities at the same time. There are also other things in shipping that we need to work on and further develop. It is about regulations, not least those linked to inland shipping. We also have what is called intermodality, which has been highlighted here before. So it is the connection between the modes of transport, this with the nodes and thinking in the strings. I think that will be the big thing in the future for efficient transport. I would say that this by beginning to restrict a mode of transport will counteract that process. We have heard examples here where it turns out that the link between shipping, rail and lorry traffic is better when you start driving with heavier vehicles and longer vehicles. The issue of intermodality has also been mentioned in connection with ports in the hinterland of Norrland and such things. It's going to be a little silly to have that discussion. It is not about that; it is about transport starting somewhere. Transport inside the country starts with shipping. The port of Gothenburg is good at driving on by rail out to Sweden. It usually ends with a truck transport. In this context, it is a good thing that truck transport is also efficient. Then, of course, it rolls in the opposite direction too. Intermodality is therefore extremely important. Madam President, I would like The Government parties and the Left Party state in their motivational reservation that the reason for our position on this point is that we see an obvious risk that the attractiveness of truck transport will increase at the expense of rail and maritime transport and that this contributes to increased emissions from road traffic. ..................................................... Here it is important to highlight and recall that there have been significant environmental benefits with both longer and heavier vehicles in terms of competitiveness and transport efficiency as well as emissions. The ONE project has been going on for a long time now – it has to be over ten since it started. ONE stands for another trove — trucks were driven up to 90 tons, long vehicles with four timber strips. Fuel consumption fell by 15 per cent, and it became much more cost-effective to use these. That is also an argument. There is an announcement in the report that is also supported by the Liberals. It is an invitation to the government to continue working on the urgent introduction of rules for longer vehicles. We now have an exemption, and that is a good thing, but we should make this more of a rule than an exception and designate roads where longer vehicles are appropriate. Madam President, I would like I'll tell you something completely different. It's about winter tires. That's where the Liberals have a reservation. It is not at all about which axles you should have studded tyres on and so on, but it is about the balance between using studded tyres or not. It is important that we have a balance between road safety and environmental considerations. This has been solved – I think it is only in Stockholm and Gothenburg – by closing the streets. Air quality has sometimes been so poor that it has become necessary. But in many other parts of the country it would be irresponsible from the point of view of road safety not to drive with studded tyres, so it looks very different across the country. That is why we want to highlight the idea of doing as in Norway, in Oslo, for example. It's called a porcupine fee, a fine word. A dubbing fee is charged for those who enter these areas. It can be pretty big. If you come from an area where you have studded tyres on the car, it is still reasonable to drive into these zones but that it costs money. Then you have to make that choice. This has proved very effective. Such a fee can be differentiated according to climatic conditions, of course, and also according to environmental conditions – what problems you have with air quality and so on. This is a model that we would like to see looked at and developed. Furthermore, we have thought that the money that comes in from this is being used in the region precisely for air protection. It's about dust binding methods, because one of the big problems in spring is the dust that the studded tires have torn up. It's about sweeping sand and repairing roads and so on. This is dealt with in reservation no 13, which I called for in the introduction.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-925	Madam President, I would like In fact, I wonder how Lars Tysklind thinks the railways will benefit. Now 70 – 80 percent of the goods go by truck, and you mean that we should not restrict any mode of transport but benefit everyone. But how much should we benefit the railways in order to effectively see a transfer, so that not 70 – 80 percent of the goods go on our roads with traffic accidents, congestion and a lot of other problems as a result? Shipping is also working very hard on environmental issues today. We are the world leader in new technologies in our marine fleet and various research projects on new technologies and so on. The sulphur directive has also driven more environmentally friendly shipping. I agree that there are still things to do, but there is also much going on and that is done. Biofuels are tested on a large scale, they buy in electric ferries and start with rotor sails. So there's a lot of excitement going on there. My question is above all: how does Lars Tysklind think we will get this transfer? In economic terms, it is not enough for the freight companies that are driving on rail today because of high rail charges and so on. I have not seen from the Alliance the great efforts that would have to be made to strengthen the railways. I'm very curious!
i-0a2e44a73839b312-929	Madam President, I would like In response to the last question, it may sometimes seem to the present government, and also to the Left Party, that increasing the operation and maintenance of railways is something that has been invented in recent years. Somehow, I think this is a little irrelevant. It must never be forgotten that the alliance government took over low operation and maintenance of rail of less than 4 billion a year. When it resigned, it was up to about 9 billion. Then another 1 billion has been added, and I am sure that is also necessary. As far as shipping is concerned, I may have been a little unclear about doing your environmental homework. A lot has been done. Every time a ship is replaced, I think it has 20% better fuel efficiency. So of course it happens in very big leaps. The problem is that you have to have firm and long-term rules because you have the ships for 20 to 30 years. That is what is important in terms of the regulatory framework and what we are asking for. When we talk about biofuels, it is clear that shipping can use it, but it also becomes a contradiction. When we then discuss the efficiency of truck traffic, we are talking only about fossil fuels. It is precisely the same development in heavy traffic – there we also have to switch to biofuels, and we also have electrification. These developments will, of course, also cost capital and will be required if we are to achieve the climate targets, which we agree to do well. It is therefore a question of the modes of transport having to develop on their own merits. This applies to both competitiveness and optimisation in terms of environmental damage and climate emissions.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-933	Madam President, I would like I also think that the instruments should be put in place to encourage a transition and so that they do not get misdirected and you do not have a real understanding of how the operation works. Then you risk putting them in the wrong place so that there are only charges. However, we need a steering effect, and it is a little strange that you are against the mileage tax while you are talking here about the fact that we should benefit the railways entirely on our own merits and that you want to introduce 74 tonnes on European roads too, which will compete with rail and shipping. I don't see what your conversion plan looks like. It is very important that we have a careful conversion plan that actually gives control effect in reality – that it is not just words. I think you have a commitment, but I don't think it's well thought out. After all, we must act quickly and have a lever effect so that we can really steer things around. It is really hard for me to understand how it will be done if we do not use instruments. You were at 9 billion, and it's a good thing you raised rail maintenance. The climate debate had probably not started so much before, so it was a little bit because of it. It is very good that you did it, but for the entire railway network, at least 10 billion is needed just to keep it in its existing state. It was only the Left Party and, in a populist way, the Swedish Democrats who were 10 billion; the Swedish Democrats had forgotten many other initiatives that had to be made. We were the ones who, in the run-up to the elections, had a budget of 10 billion. Now we're over that amount, which is very good. But I agree with you: long-term rules and as much cross-block interaction as possible. In this way, I think we can get closer to the transition that needs to happen, and that is incredibly important.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-938	Madam President, I would like If we are now talking about how to get a sustainable transport system and that the modes of transport can be developed in order to do their optimal part in this, we need to be fully agreed that we cannot just have either shipping, rail or road – they must interact. Now we focus very much on 74 tonnes and longer vehicles, and we do that because it is part of achieving less emissions and more cost-effective transport on the road side. But I think that both Emma Wallrup and I mentioned this with intermodality. It must be ensured that ports and railway nodes fit into the system. That is what will be the weak point. If it is easy to reload and get cost-effective transport, it will happen. We got an example with Jula in Västergötland. Because of an exemption to drive a number of containers in a train on the road, it is suddenly profitable to take them by rail to Falköping and take them from there. That is what I mean in my speech: I rather think it will be counterproductive if, in order to promote one mode of transport, another is strangled. We must create a system that optimises all modes of transport; they must live on their own merits. As far as the railways are concerned, the operating and maintenance money was gradually increased, and this is, of course, about accessibility. We can talk about costs, but on the railway side I think it's a lot about accessibility and operational safety too – it's very important.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-943	Mrs. Old President! I object a little to the reasoning of all the bourgeois debaters, who say that we want to limit one mode of transport in favour of others. This is not really what it is all about. The introduction of 74-tonne trucks is not, of course, a restriction on a mode of transport. Instead, it is a question of using a mode of transport more efficiently. Lars Tysklind has spoken a great deal about this, and I can agree with some of the arguments about intermodality, strings and such things. That is quite right; we must work in the future. But then we must also ensure that the market is in control. I can see it from Norrbotten's perspective. There are more companies that want to than can transport their goods by rail down to their market in Central Sweden or further away. But the capacity doesn't exist. Today, our entire rail system has problems with its capacity almost everywhere. This means that you have to choose some other way for the goods to arrive. Then it is often truck transport you have to choose. Then we cannot take measures which further reinforce the problems. Instead, measures must be taken to strengthen the competitiveness of the railways. This was Lars Tysklind's point of view, but it is not a line of reasoning that can be taken if one at the same time believes that it is in opposition to transferring goods between rail and road.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-946	Mrs. Old President! I think Leif Pettersson made a logical hill change there. Of course, it is a little positive that Leif Pettersson says that he is a little against our reasoning. Maybe the fact that it's just a little he's turned against might be a good thing. We fully agree that the market rules and that there is a lack of capacity within the rail network. There are those who cannot transport by rail due to lack of capacity. This is what we talk about when we talk about accessibility. We must remedy that. We need to maintain the railway we have, so that it works. We know that this applies a little everywhere in Sweden. In addition, the rail network must be expanded. I suppose we agree on that. But then comes the logical hill change: Because the railway does not work, you are forced to take the goods on the truck, but then why should you not use the truck optimally and drive 74-tonsekipage and longer trucks? There will be some kind of element 22 in this. When rail capacity is expanded and this is achieved with intermodality and transhipment nodes, we should probably have a different system. Leif Pettersson says that the market should control, but it does not, of course, if we limit the possibility of using 74-ton cars so that the system cannot be used as well as possible just because there are shortcomings somewhere in it. It is clear that these shortcomings will be remedied and that shipping will have better opportunities. Above all, I think it is a matter of rules. Today there is much talk about the regulatory framework for shipping.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-952	Mrs. Old President! It gets a little strange, that: If we do not allow 74 tonnes on all roads, everywhere and all the time, then we cannot transport anything on a truck at all. Yeah, well, maybe no one's told me. Most of the transport is today on a truck, just as Emma Wallrup said. We all know that's the way it is. It is not a question of favouring or disadvantaging any particular mode of transport; it is a question of how the market wants to transport its goods. Today there is an awareness that we cannot live on this earth several times over, but we must limit the use of resources. Then we must agree that we cannot take measures that only reinforce this right. I think there are still many more roads that we will open for 74 tonnes in the future. That's it. In this context, it may also be useful to discuss a little about biofuels, which Lars Tysklind was interested in. It's excellent, but there's a limit to it. There's not a lot of biofuels. It should be used for flights, heavy trucks, for passenger cars and for anything in the world. At the same time, the same forest raw material can also be used for a lot of other good things. There's a limit. We need to discuss the first need for biofuels. For me, it's heavy-duty vehicles.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-957	Mrs. Old President! It was good that Leif Pettersson came into the woods here. You can stay and listen to the next debate and discuss the uses of the forest. You are welcome to join us! I mentioned shipping regulations, but I didn't have time to talk about it. The current developments in the regulatory framework are positive. You go from detailed control to a control of functions and that you meet certain conditions. You can meet the conditions in different ways, but you should be able to show that you meet them. This is something that reasonably makes shipping more competitive. Leif Pettersson talks about biofuels and where to go. If I may have a personal vision of this, I shall say that I am quite convinced that the passenger car fleet will be electrified. That'll be the big part. Some of the heavy traffic will also be electrified in large stretches. However, biofuels will still be required both in road transport and in shipping and aviation. It must also work in practice. V i not only can we introduce 74 ‐ tsekipage and longer trucks, but we can also restrict the road network. Someone should invest in these vehicles, and then they must be able to be used to a reasonable extent; otherwise there is no profitability. Just as Leif Pettersson said: In the end, it is the market that controls. It must be profitable, cost-effective and competitive. Then it is good if you can combine it with environmental considerations and reduced emissions. That is exactly what this discussion is about.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-961	Mrs. Old President! A well-functioning infrastructure is a fundamental prerequisite for a living society and a living countryside. The common understanding within the Alliance is that the individual roads are an important part of this because they enable about 1 million people to get to and from the home and work every day. The individual roads also make it easier for the public to enjoy outdoor life and the tourism industry in the country. They are also an important prerequisite for freight transport. This important road network must be sustainable and have a good standard of bearing and load. An important prerequisite for maintaining and developing the individual paths that have state subsidies is that there is an adapted regulatory framework, but also good application and response by the responsible authorities. Mrs. Old President! More than three years have passed since the entry into force of the new provision on winter tyre requirements for heavy duty vehicles. It is now time to assess the impact of the new rules to see whether the number of heavy-duty traffic accidents has been reduced as a result of the winter tyre requirement. The Christian Democrats also propose to introduce requirements for winter tyres for trailers over 3.5 tonnes. This is an important requirement in order to minimise the risk of coupled trailers folding during braking and thus causing accidents. The snow tyre requirement currently applies only to the vehicle's drive axle and not the associated trailer wheels. In other words, a trailer of more than 3.5 tonnes is not subject to the requirement. Heavy vehicles with combination without winter tires can pose a danger in traffic. We want to change this in order to increase road safety. Mrs. Old President! Technology developments often have consequences for the transport system. It is important that policies and legislation keep pace with technology. Within the alliance parties, we agree that the development of autonomous vehicles can have a profound impact on the whole road transport system. Both passenger transport and freight transport would benefit from more autonomous vehicles. The ongoing test operation with self-driving vehicles in Gothenburg shows that Sweden is at the forefront of technology development, which is gratifying. Future technology brings with it both opportunities and challenges in terms of how we plan the transport infrastructure. At the same time, there are a number of legal and road safety aspects that need to be taken into account. Both passenger and freight transport would benefit from more autonomous vehicles. In the future, more freight could be automated. As with electric vehicles, Sweden has every opportunity to be a pioneer country when it comes to self-governing vehicles. We have world-class car and truck manufacturers and a good starting point. Already today, self-governing vehicles drive on our roads on trial. These trials need to be expanded. Sweden therefore needs a comprehensive strategy for autonomous vehicles that supports the development of autonomous vehicles. Mrs. Old President! The Christian Democrats have been proposing longer and heavier lorries for a long time to make goods transport more efficient. It will be cheaper for the business community to get the goods transported. It becomes more environmentally friendly, as fewer trucks transport more goods at a time. In addition, the industry, mainly the forest industry and the ore industry, have asked for this. On the initiative of the alliance parties, the Riksdag has previously announced to the government that it will make this possible.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-969	However, the government indicates in the bill that the opening of a road network for BK4 should be limited to only about 8 per cent of the state road network. It should also be guided by the principle that this should not override the Government's ambition to move goods from road to rail and shipping. The Christian Democrats believe that the Government's proposal is very restrictive. With this limitation, the effect of the reform is being strangled. In order for the business community to benefit from the heavy goods vehicles, coherent routes must be opened up. If the road network becomes delimited, many industries lack the incentive to invest in new, larger and more environmentally friendly vehicles. The Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, therefore propose that heavier trucks, up to 74 tonnes, should be allowed on all roads where the carrying capacity is sufficient. The Christian Democrats obviously agree with the objective of more goods being transported by rail and shipping in order to minimise CO2 emissions from the transport sector. It's obvious we're working that way. However, allowing 74 tonnes of lorries only on short spaces is not a good measure. The government's restriction of the road network makes transport less cost-effective. It puts our export industry at a disadvantage and the potential positive environmental effects will not be achieved. The Christian Democrats believe that all modes of transport are important. They complement each other, and smart interaction between different modes of transport provides the greatest benefit to society. The alliance parties and a majority in the committee believe that the carrying capacity of roads should be crucial for the road network to be set up for trucks with a maximum gross weight of 74 tonnes. This should be implemented urgently. It will reduce costs and CO2 emissions per tonne of goods transported. The proposal thus contributes to a reduction in environmental and climate impacts. It also helps to strengthen the international competitiveness of Swedish industry. Mrs. Old President! Earlier in an announcement, the Swedish Parliament has asked the Government to continue to investigate the issue of taking vehicles up to 30 meters. The Christian Democrats have proposed this in the past. We believe that the government should urgently deal with the announcement and make it possible to allow longer vehicles. Mrs. Old President! I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 14 and the Alliance-wide reservation No 6.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-976	Mrs. Old President! I have never had as many questions from my own as I have before this debate: what are you going to say? It's exciting. It would have been wrong of me if I had not been involved in this debate, I have to say. I have to tell you a little bit about the background. It is no secret that when I was elected to Parliament and realized that my party had opposed this with 74 tons, I tried to process the others and say: You have landed wrong. We have to face this. I'm very happy for my party and for the fact that we've taken a stand. It would be a little crazy if we were to say: No, when six log cars have passed, the seventh does not have to pass. That would be wrong. That's it. Naturally, of course, I will not make an imbalance. I can't do that. But I'm going to mention some reflections and some facts that I think it's healthy to have. I want to stick my chin out and say: I think I've seen more timber and bits of pulp than all of you have done together, or than you've seen macaroni. It's been my livelihood for 30 years. Forest transport would have benefited from more roads. But I agree with much of what Mr Leif has said. It is clear that politics cannot point this out. We have an authority to do that. And they've done it. But I also understand that they in turn had a fence. Perhaps it was a pity in some sense. I'm from East Norrbotten. The nearest piece of railway is east, in the wrong direction. Then I'll go to Malmbanan. The forest industry needs transport on rubber wheels. I am pleased that we have come this far, and I agree with Mr Leif. I hope eastern Norrbotten is the next step. But it is clear that it is a little if it is only 2 - 6 percent that the forest industry can use. I must pay tribute to all those who have been involved in this debate. I think everyone has said wise things. But would anyone invest in equipment if you can only use the short pieces? No, I don't think it'll be used on these stumps, as you'd imagine. That's it. It is a pity that the chairman of the Transport Committee has left the Chamber, because it is certainly wrong that these building modules from Lindbäcks Bygg end up on the road. But it has nothing to do with 74 tons, but it has to do with light but bulky modules. We're missing another railroad. Maybe the Norrbotnia Line with double tracks would have solved that part, but it's not in place. Longer transport has also been discussed. It was in 2009 that the ETT transport, A travesty to, began to go from Överkalix to Piteå. It is a success story; one must admit that. It has been investigated, and there are reports of what it has contributed to. But I agree, as Mr Leif said, that perhaps it is the case that we should look at exemptions for some transport and where we can use it. When it comes to the ETT transport between Överkalix and Piteå, it is at least a success story. The Finns came and looked at this two three years after, and they have been flattened by a transport of 30 meters with 90 tons that they drive in several places. Then, as some have done, Finland could not open the entire road network either. It was road bridges that were not allowed to run on, but they have of course opened the road network considerably more than we did. By nature, due to investment costs, they run the most at 68 tonnes, even if it is possible with 76 tonnes. As far as the future is concerned, I hope, of course, that wise politicians in the government will try to ensure that we get those pieces anyway. With regard to the fears of moving over transport, which you paint as a scenario, you do not need to be a rocket scientist or have invented the fuse to know that there are a lot of roads for which you do not need to have these fears, and it is clear that they should be included. I will not prolong the debate, but it would have been wrong for me not to talk about the facts about these pieces. For my part, the forestry industry is important.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-989	Mrs. Old President! I have the privilege of launching this debate on the forest – our green gold. The forest has literally and figuratively meant a great deal to Sweden and built Sweden. Our wealth and wealth have grown in the forest to a very large extent, and thanks to entrepreneurs and talented companies and not least very hard work of generations of Swedes, we have been able to reap what the forest has to give and constantly become better at exploiting biomass. The processing rate has been increased in industry. New uses have been discovered and new products developed. The historical importance of forests for our country can hardly be exaggerated, but the forest is not just our history but just as much our future. Last Tuesday I visited Forest Industry Week and Bioeconomy Forum, an annual event that brings together the forest industry and other forest interested actors and people. The title of this year's forum was... Sweden's future is being built by the forest, and the forum focused on wood construction and innovation. The Forum's various speakers highlighted the many possible uses of forest raw materials. Sustainable textiles, automotive fuels, green chemicals, large-scale wood construction and new packaging materials were just a few examples of applications that were highlighted. Thus, the forestry industry has an enormous potential to contribute to continued economic growth with the emergence of new businesses and jobs while contributing to, indeed driving the necessary transition to a more sustainable society. We must phase out fossil fuels and create a more bio-based and circular economy. Mrs. Old President! Let me be very clear about what is required in order for the fantastic potential that I have now tried to describe to be realised: It requires active forestry. It requires the use of the forest. Strangely enough, this seems to be forgotten in the general debate, and when I listen to some Members of this House and take note of the political proposals of some other parties, it is as if one does not realise or want to realise the fact. The basic prerequisite for us to be able to produce building materials, fuels, textile pulp, green chemicals and everything else we want and can get out of the forest is that it grows and is used – that forests are harvested and processed into finished products and materials. Only then can forests seriously contribute to meeting the climate challenge and help us phase out fossil energy and non-renewable materials. Protecting and strengthening property rights is therefore, among other things, a very important issue and priority for us Moderates when designing our forestry policy. Mrs. Old President! This brings me to the fact that the potential of forests requires a policy that is linked, a policy that is balanced and capable of balancing when different interests sometimes conflict with each other. I am concerned that we have a government that seems to be having a very difficult time managing this balance and which, internally, seems to have very different views on where Swedish forestry policy is going. We have a government that does not address the challenges and real problems facing Swedish forestry. We have a government that is passive in the EU context and does not seem to understand the seriousness of the proposals that are now under negotiation at EU level on climate and land use, among other things. These are proposals that may to a very large extent affect or even restrict Swedish forestry and our national self-determination over the forest. Mrs. Old President! In this context, I would therefore like to remind both the Government and the Government parties of the announcement that Parliament has already made to safeguard national self-determination, and to urge the Government to act vigorously to ensure that, among other things, the LULUCF directive, which concerns land use, land-use change and forestry, is not designed in such a way that Swedish forestry, directly or indirectly, is restricted. The government claims to be of basically the same opinion as the Moderates and the Alliance on this issue. That's good, but it's not enough. The government must also act. Unfortunately, the government's action on this issue has so far been inactive, which also gives me cause to be concerned about the work on the so-called Renewables Directive, which also has a great bearing on the forest. The government must fight with beaks and claws to give Swedish forestry good conditions and for our national self-determination over forest policy. Otherwise, the risk is that we will put a stop to the Swedish forestry industry when we remove important tools in the fight against climate change. Mrs. Old President! I just stressed the importance of a balanced forestry policy. The starting point for the Moderates is the Forest Protection Act's two equal goals on the environment and production. Measures are needed to boost forest growth and measures are needed to further develop nature considerations in forestry and biodiversity. Often the debate on nature conservation is reduced to a debate on hectares – hectares of protected nature and forests. It is unfortunate, on the one hand, because the most important thing for forests and biodiversity is not how much forest is protected but that forestry is conducted in a sustainable way, and, on the other hand, because the desire to constantly exclude more forests tends to make the work of managing and managing already set aside forests and land forgotten or not prioritised. It is serious that a large part of Sweden around 4 500 nature reserves have management plans that have not been followed or that have become obsolete. That is why, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I am in favour of Amendment No 3, which deals with this very issue. We Moderates believe that more valuable forests and nature need to be protected, but at least as important is therefore to manage already protected nature in a good way. Otherwise, not only valuable natural values fail, but also the legitimacy of politics. Mrs. Old President! Let me return to natural considerations in the very use of the forest, to what is used to be called general consideration. Forestry conservation work has taken seven million years since the current Forestry Act came into force in 1994, and this development has taken place on a voluntary basis and has been driven, among other things, by environmental certifications in forestry. Today, when felling is done, a wide range of considerations are generally taken into account and a variety of measures are taken to protect valuable nature or to create environments and structures conducive to biodiversity. In concrete terms, this includes saving valuable trees, creating dead wood, preventing road injuries, leaving edge zones next to water and much more. In addition to general considerations, which can be described as everyday considerations that are constantly taken into account in the implementation of various measures in the forest, Sweden's forest owners also make very large voluntary provisions for land. So far, Sweden's forest owners have set aside 1, 3 – 1, 4 million hectares of productive forest land, entirely voluntarily, in order to protect cores and other areas with high natural values. Mrs. Old President! Does the environmental considerations in the forest work? Is it yielding results? The answer to both questions is yes. Research from, among others, Skogforsk and SLU shows that the measures taken in forestry, such as the creation of top men and the leaving of so-called consideration areas, have an effect. Looking at important indicators to follow up on the environmental quality target Living forests, you can see that development is moving in the right direction. There is increasingly hard dead wood and more older deciduous forest. Other indicators also point in the right direction. We Moderates think it is important to continue to develop and follow up environmental considerations in forestry in order to ensure that the right measures are taken. We believe that results and efficiency also need to be at the heart of this area. Mrs. Old President! I would also like to highlight the need for the government to review the application and design of the Species Protection Regulation as well as the management of key biotopes. If in part this has already been announced to the government by a parliamentary majority, and just recently the LRF called the Forest owners together with the five major forest owners' associations in an open letter to the Prime Minister. The letter describes a growing concern about legal uncertainty and unpredictability in the exercise of authority. This must be taken seriously by the government and addressed. Finally, Madam President-in-Office, I would like to return to the enormous potential of forests and forestry. Forests are one of our most important keys to a more climate-smart and sustainable society. Let us use that key and open up for a growing bio-based economy.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1014	Mrs. Old President! On the MJU13 report, I would first of all like to call for the approval of reservation 5, a complementary working method for the protection of valuable forests, and for reservation 10, Forestry and forest management. But of course we support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats. Mrs. Old President! A world-class forest industry is a cornerstone of the Swedish economy. Sweden has world-leading knowledge of both processing and environmentally friendly production of forest raw materials. The forest covers more than half of Sweden's surface area and is also important for outdoor activities, tourism and our common cultural heritage. In accordance with the idea of stewardship, the Swedish Democrats want to preserve a diverse forest landscape with biodiversity where both farmed and uncultivated forests have their given place. There is a potential for increased use of forests as a resource, which would generate additional export revenues and tens of thousands of new jobs, not least in forest areas. Sweden has knowledgeable and serious forest owners, but it is also worth pointing out that the industry is being pushed hard by low margins, partly due to high taxes and bureaucracy. Sweden has never had as much forest as today. This is the result of an active forestry policy for many years. About one third of forest land is excluded from active forestry, which includes formally protected forests, voluntary provisions and unproductive areas. We believe that it is correct that protected biotopes are protected and that significant areas are excluded from felling, but we do not give priority to more and larger nature reserves. It is partly a cost issue for society and, in addition, an indirect cost for the whole industry arises when productive areas are taken out of use. We are now beginning to see the effects of EU rules, which are often designed based on conditions on the continent but are of limited relevance to Swedish conditions. For example, the so-called Species and Habitats Directive takes too far-reaching measures to protect species that are not under threat in Sweden, which is an unreasonable regime. Sweden has large areas of young forest – 1.3 million hectares – that need to be cleared to give the trees that remain the best conditions for growth and quality. The Swedish Democrats believe that a well-designed advisory body in cooperation with the forest industry could increase forest owners' incentives to clear the forest right and on time. It's about learning when, where and how to clear. We also want to see increased needs-oriented research to increase growth, develop new logging methods and reduce driving injuries after felling. Mrs. Old President! A generation later on can be considered to have become so valuable that they have received a protective stamp. An important lesson is that in a very short time we can create valuable natural environments. Nature's kind of working on it. A harvested forest may well contain great natural values. The creation of the key biotopes has been largely detrimental to many landowners. They often end up in an expropriation-like situation without the possibility of reasonable compensation. But the beautiful forest has not come about by chance, by nature's whim, but it is often the care and long-termness of generations. It is a threat to ownership when a forest environment where the owner himself has created the high natural values is taken from the owner precisely because of its high natural values. Ownership is being eroded by the current management of key biotopes. The industry cannot buy wood from forests classified as possible key biotopes on the basis of certification bodies' requirements. For there to be a financial settlement for the landowner, an area identified as a possible key biotope must be protected in a formal agreement. The original purpose of the Forest Board's mission to inventory key biotopes was to acquire knowledge of how forest areas should be prioritised in terms of official protection. And although the Swedish Forest Board decides not to create formal protection for a possible key biotope, it still remains in lists of key biotopes and thus in practice cannot be harvested. New positions on possible key biotopes are very rarely taken, and procedures for removal of possible key biotopes that do not lead to formal protection are lacking today. Furthermore, it has been shown that the key biotopes within the same region often contain the same biodiversity for red-listed species. This indicates, on the one hand, that many species that have been the basis for the creation of key biotopes may eventually be removed from the Red List, since they are significantly more common than we have known to date, and, on the other hand, that unnecessarily many biotopes protected have similar species compositions of rare species within the region. The Swedish Forest Board has recently made a forward-looking decision by freezing the key biotop inventory in northwestern Sweden, from Torsby Municipality in Värmland and up across the country. The difficulties encountered in applying the key biotopes concept are highlighted here by the fact that this area is characterised by large contiguous areas of old forest, where the limits of individual key biotopes are often liquid and diffuse. The decision of the Board of Forestry had to endure a great deal of unneeded criticism. Environmentally-involved researchers signed a petition, and a number of officials at the Swedish Forest Board chose to conduct political environmental activism by publicly disassociating themselves from management decisions. Most of the criticism has been based on the rather erroneous view that large areas with a protected forest are now at risk of being felled because the Swedish Forest Board during the break would not identify and delimit new key biotopes. Consciously or not, the cards are mixed away by producing the concept of key biotope as a protective form. Last Tuesday, the Swedish Forest Agency decided to establish a new package of measures for key biotopes in northwestern Sweden. In order to ensure knowledge acquisition, the Swedish Forest Board is now continuing the inventory of areas with key biotopes quality and other forests with high natural values in the area. In parallel, the work on methodological development for the goal of completing the process will be strengthened as early as 2017. It is worth noting that during this period no new areas such as key biotopes are defined. I would call this a cautious and, in our opinion, cowardly step back by the Forest Board. The task of the Forest Board has never been to delimit key biotopes, nor to use key biotopes to prevent forest felling. For such measures, the Forest Board has access to other tools. Mrs. Old President! Finally, the Swedish Democrats believe that one of the fundamental principles of society's prosperity is respect for the individual's property. The Swedish forest model with two overall and equal forest policy objectives, the environmental objective and the production target, will be preserved and further developed in consultation with the forest industry. We believe that the most successful forestry policy is achieved through voluntary and information rather than through detailed laws and regulations.
i-MaSvGECZMW6yjDaszuE7Q5	Mrs. Old President! In this debate, I would like, in line with Johan Hultberg, to support reservation 3. Then I would like to say that the Swedish forest gives us jobs. It gives us a living countryside, and it gives us export revenue a lot. In addition, it gives us a unique opportunity to move towards the bioeconomic society, the circular society with the circular economy where we use renewables and resources instead of finite resources. To this should be added something that I think we all think is important, namely that everyone who lives in our country somehow has a relationship with the forest. We admire it, we walk in it, and we use it in every way because we have joy in it. Mrs. Old President! As I see it, there are a number of threats to jobs and export earnings. What could this be? Well, there are a number of threats in the form of taxes and charges that mean that we cannot keep all the jobs that give development in different parts of the country. There are threats that we cannot decide for ourselves how to manage the abundance of forests in our country, that is, that the Brussels system takes over what I hope we all think we should decide on in this House, among other things. There are also threats to something I think is very important, namely property rights. It is restricted in the form of a limitation of the provision over what someone owns as time passes. I would like to announce here, Madam President-in-Office, that, on behalf of the Center Party, there is no doubt that we stand up for private ownership, which means that there is a provision over what you own and that you can use what you own. As a result, through the centuries we have managed our forests wisely. As several speakers have said here before, we have a great deal of forest in our country today that we have probably never had before. I say this, quite upside down, is due to private ownership, which has also meant that it has been able to dispose of what it owns. Today we have very well-preserved forests in a great deal that certainly never existed before. Moreover, these forests, partly because there are many owners, contain a diversity of biodiversity. During the alliance government, we launched something named Comet. It was a way of involving those who own something in the work of protecting what we may all think needs to be preserved for the future, such as untouched forests. The current government has renewed the programme, and I think that's great. The problem, however, is that no new resources have been provided in this context. I think we all agree on the way to protect what we must protect for the future, such as something that is untouched or contains something specific that we want to preserve. This is necessary, but it requires us to provide resources in this area, especially those based on voluntary activity. I say this in the light of the fact that I am defending the property rights which have been protected for a number of years now in our own constitution, but also in the conventions to which we are subject, from the UN Charter to the European Conventions which we have signed – by the way, as everyone knows, we are members of the European Union. At this late hour, Madam President, I will not prolong the debate. Once again, I call for the approval of reservation 3. Of course, I support all further reservations, but for time-winning I will settle for that.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1043	Mrs. Old President! The largest part of Sweden's surface is covered by forest. It enables wild animals to live freely in nature. It opens up exciting experiences for us humans, such as jogging, picking mushrooms and going out with the dog. Yes, the forest is one of few places in our society where we are protected from the stress and pulse of everyday life. The forest also creates fantastic opportunities for so-called ecotourism, that people from other countries and also from Sweden can enjoy the Swedish wilderness. But it is also from the forest that you get wood raw materials that can be used for almost everything from planks to building houses to textiles, cartons and paper. The residues can become biofuels that can drive our vehicles. There's plenty of forest to cover. Here it is important to find the right balance. I am very concerned about the state of the Swedish forests today. We are rightly concerned about the destruction of tropical forests in distant lands. But what is the situation here at home? True, the forest grows so that it creaks. But are these forests of great biodiversity, or are they timber fields? That's a relevant question to ask, I think. According to one of our 16 environmental goals, we should have living forests in Sweden. By that we mean forests with a great variety and biodiversity. Most of the forests, however, do not look like that. The environmental objective of living forests is one of the a total of 16 environmental quality objectives that will not be achieved with today's decisions on instruments. In other words, there is much to do here. Some of the proposals raised by the Left Party in the report are to continue to protect more forests. We welcome the fact that in the budget that was made last year and which the Left Party supports, there is a historic effort to protect more forests. That is a good thing, but we must also ensure that there are ecologically representative environments. It is not only the size that counts but also the content. Higher demands need to be placed on so-called voluntary provisions, so that they too become environments of high value and high quality. We do not need to protect more forests, but we also need a better use of the forest. There is a need for greater diversity in forestry. Most of the forestry in Sweden is so-called horticulture. The entire forest area is finally cut off and cut down. That is why we in the Left Party want to support so-called clean forestry or selective forestry, where you do not cut down the entire forest but take the trees that are largest and most mature at the moment. When you talk about a more varied forestry, it can also be about that there is a need for greater diversity in that it is more than coniferous trees that will grow in Sweden. More deciduous forest is needed, and it needs to be stimulated. We in the Left want the whole forestry legislation to be reviewed. Such a review is ongoing in part. I am a little worried that we do not take the holistic approach that we in the Left Party want to see. The best thing would be if the Forest Protection Act could be included in the Environmental Code. The idea of freedom under responsibility must be abandoned. What other important policy areas say that operators have the freedom to decide for themselves? We also believe that sanctions should be introduced within the framework of forestry legislation. It should simply pay off to do the right thing. But there will also be consequences if you do wrong. This is not the case today to the extent that would be necessary. Environmental considerations and general considerations must weigh more heavily. Here I do not share the image of forestry given by previous bourgeois speakers. Today, according to the Forest Protection Act, production and the environment must weigh equally. I say it doesn't work that way. Let me give you an example. Before a final felling is to be done in Sweden, the Swedish Forest Agency has the opportunity to make demands. A logging notification shall be submitted to the Authority. The Swedish Forest Board has for the past six weeks to make demands on logging. If this is not the case, the felling can be carried out. Then it is a relevant question: How often does the Swedish Forest Agency impose social or environmental requirements on a felling in Sweden? Journalist Maciej Zaremba wrote an acclaimed series of articles in Dagens Nyheter a few years ago. This was just one of the issues he raised. He reviewed the 67,000 logging reports submitted in 2011. Of these 67 000 notifications, only eight were required by the Swedish Forest Board for consideration of people or landscapes. That can't be reasonable. The felling of forests with high natural values must be stopped. Here the work with so-called key biotopes – that is, areas with very high natural values – is absolutely crucial. We in the Left Party welcome the fact that the Swedish Forest Board has just announced that the inventory of key biotopes is now to be resumed. However, we wonder what to do with the inventory work, because it says that at the same time you should not register and label the areas that have been surveyed. This is where the government must act. We in the Left Party also want to strengthen the consultation process for the final felling of forests. It should not be that when you come home from vacation is the forest where perhaps for decades you used to walk with the dog suddenly turned into a stubble field. Interested parties should always be able to speak out for a planned felling. That is why the consultation process in the environmental code needs to be strengthened. I would therefore like to endorse Amendment No 7, which deals with these very issues. So-called production-enhancing measures, such as alien species that may grow faster in Sweden, stub mining, fertilization to increase forest growth or ditching, need to be more clearly regulated in the environmental code. It is not okay with the major interventions that are not clearly regulated today. Mrs. Old President! Basically, this debate is very much about how to look at the forest and ownership. As we have heard here before from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, one might think that ownership gives the right and thus a very great freedom to control the forest itself, no matter how it affects the rest of us. But you can also reason as we do in the Left Party. The forest is a public good to which we should all be entitled. In short, it is about: Is it the profit interest of forest companies that should govern, or is it the public's right to land that should weigh the most? There we think that the public should have a much greater influence than they are today. For us, it is perfectly logical to criticise the dogma of freedom under responsibility, to demand greater transparency in forestry, to promote more gentle and varied forestry practices, to protect more forest land and to promote greater biodiversity and greater social considerations. In short: to promote more sustainable forestry and greater protection of forests.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1066	Mrs. Old President! It is always exciting with forest debate where Jens Holm participates, because it provides the opportunity for an ideological debate, a debate on the concept of ownership, a debate on the view of the right of use and on the border between what the state should do and what should not do, the limit of how much we in this House should interfere with what other people do with their land. However, it is very depressing, Madam President, to listen to Jens Holm's description of Swedish forestry and his view on this and hear about his huge distrust of Swedish forest owners. I tried to describe a picture that is true, a picture supported by the authorities. Just look at the statistics that the Swedish Forest Board presents annually. There we see that developments in the forest are moving in the right direction. We see that private forest owners are making great voluntary efforts. We see that today's model of volunteering works. But according to Left Party and Jens Holm it is so that Jens Holm and Left Party know best. Swedish forestry is best designed here in the Swedish parliament. I'm of a different opinion, Mrs. Old President. I think it is Sweden's forest owners who know best how Swedish forestry should be designed. Our task is to draw up a framework legislation. Based on it, forest owners will design their farming. Mrs. Old President! I want to ask Jens Holm a question. Does Jens Holm think that we should also introduce consultation obligations for all farmers? Should a farmer be forced to consult his neighbors before he or she is allowed to thresh her oat fields?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1070	Mrs. Old President! I fully agree with Johan Hultberg that this will be a clear debate to the extent that on one side we have those who pay tribute to private property rights and believe that it should give almost unlimited right to do what you want and on the other we have people like me, who think that the public interest must weigh far more heavily than it can do today. I do not understand, Madam President-in-Office, what the problem is with extending the consultation procedure. Today it is very different how consultation works. Some forest companies handle it well. Others don't really care about it. Just because you own the forest, I don't think you can do whatever you want with it. You need to hear the people affected by a final felling before it happens. We do not have any proposals for a consultation procedure in agriculture. I do not think that parallel is really relevant in this context. Mrs. Old President! I would like to take this opportunity to ask Johan Hultberg about reservation 3 on voluntary provisions, which I think can be an important complement to, for example, nature reserves run by the state. I think it's a little strange when in that reservation you also say that nature conservation agreements and biotop protection can be very important. If you want more of nature conservation agreements and biotopes protection, you also have to spend money on forest owners. But you have set aside an incredible amount less than what we have done in the budget. Why don't you set aside money for that?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1074	Mrs. Old President! We have funds set aside for this. It is about prioritising the most valuable natural areas when protecting forests. But for me as a moderate, it is also very important that we take care of the forest we set aside. I did not hear a word, Madam President-in-Office, in Jens Holm's speech on the responsibility of the state and on the fact that the state is often in fact lacking in its responsibilities. We have huge areas already set aside, formally protected areas, where the state does not assume its responsibilities for management. It is a very one-sided focus from Jens Holm and the Left Party on the forest owners' possible failures or transgressions. But one seems to be completely blind to the fact that the state has often not assumed its responsibilities and that the state is not always best placed to manage and manage the forest. I read an interesting report from Skogsstyrelsen, Forest Impact Assessments 2015 – SKA 15, which showed that the proportion of older deciduous forests will increase in Sweden thanks to the increase in areas on the privately used land. In the designated areas, in the nature reserves, the forecast was that the amount will be reduced because the government does not implement management measures and removes, for example, some spruce to benefit the deciduous trees. The government lacks responsibility, but private landowners deliver results. Madam President, I would like to thank the The parable of agriculture is that this is on-going land use. Jens Holm does not think it is reasonable that the farmer should have to consult with the neighbors in order to harvest autumn wheat, but he thinks that the forester should have to do so in order to harvest spruce and pine. Basically, there's no difference. It is about reaping what you have used and the value that you have created. I regret, Madam President, that Jens Holm has enormous overconfidence in the ability of politics to regulate a desirable development. Plane economic thinking seems to remain in the Left Party, despite the fact that the Communists have been abandoned in their party name.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1078	Mrs. Old President! The only thing Johan Hultberg forgot in that list was the Soviet Union. None of this is in our policy. Johan Hultberg ascribes to me a number of positions which I do not stand for and which are not included in our reservation or our motion in this report. Nevertheless, I think this is an important debate. Johan Hultberg gives no answer to the question that is actually fully relevant to people living near forests, namely that one has no advice about what might be the future of the forest. You can go away on vacation and then come home to see that all the forest is gone. That is what we want to do something about. That is why we want to strengthen the consultation process. This does not mean that the individual is given a veto or similar to stop something, but we need a consultation procedure to find the best possible solutions at a final felling. Johan Hultberg mentioned something very interesting about the state use of forests and overall the protection of forests. I agree with you, Johan, that the protection of forests in Sweden has long been bad. We have had eight years of bourgeois politics when this has been given total priority. We are now making a historic effort to protect forests in Sweden, among other things to ensure that we not only have protection in areas, but also a protection that is representative purely ecological, so that we can get more of deciduous forests, for example. To my specific question, Johan Hultberg answers that you have money to protect the forest. Yes, but we are adding more than 1 billion to this area so that we can make this historic effort. The Moderates dismiss that bet. All you have to do is regret it.
i-AGXmzUBAijKj7o1jkyXvRs	Mrs. Old President! We are debating the environment – and the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, MJU13, which deals with the forest and deals with movements from the general period of exercise. As usual, we have dedicated members here in Parliament. They have written motions on national environmental objectives, forests with high natural values, voluntary forest provisions, a complementary working method for the protection of valuable forests, the importance of forests for climate and bioeconomy, the social values of forests, the legal responsibility of landowners, forestry and forest management, land dewatering and ditching of forest land, logging notifications, certification of forestry, use of foreign tree species and targets for the proportion of wood construction. I call for all motions to be rejected and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved. Mrs. Old President! The forest and the forest industry are doing very well. There is a huge demand for products from the forest. Forest prices are rising. Stora Enso, Södra and others have recently increased the prices of pulp and sawn timber. Interest in living in forests and land remains high. Visitor businesses related to the forest are growing and attracting new visitors. There is strong support in this House for more natural forests to be protected and for environmental considerations to increase in the forest used, at least rhetorical. But how? We social democrats in government are investing more money because we think it is reasonable for individual forest owners to have compensation for provisions. To believe, like the bourgeois parties, that everything can be done on a voluntary basis is to be fooled and to put the forest owner at risk. The area of forest that is voluntarily excluded from forestry is not increasing. An important reason is that large areas of voluntary provisions have changed to being formally protected, the Swedish Forest Agency recently stated in a report. In a report, the Swedish Forest Agency now reports on the scope of voluntary provisions in forestry. The report has been produced on behalf of the government that I represent. The area of voluntary provisions in 2016 is estimated at 1.2 million hectares. This means neither an increase nor a decrease compared to the last follow-up in 2010. However, there have been changes within the respective ownership category. In large forest farms, large areas of voluntary provision have been transferred to formal protection in the form of nature reserves and biotopes protection, for example. Land has been changed from state Sveaskog to other forest companies. This has led to a reduction in the area of voluntary provisions in large forest farming. In small and medium-sized forestry, however, the area of voluntary provision has increased, due to the fact that more small and medium-sized forest owners have certified their forestry. We see a big difference between certified and uncertified land in terms of the proportion of voluntary provisions, says Skogsstyrelsen in the same report. The conclusion is that certification is a strong driving force for voluntary provisions. Work on environmental considerations in practical forestry is of fundamental importance to us. The question of whether a review of the Species Protection Regulation and its application should be carried out is being prepared in the Government Office. The so-called bomb wall judgment provides an important guide here in precisely the right to compensation for the individual forest owner. It is not reasonable for authorities, or for that matter bourgeois parties, to lay hooks for the individual forest owner. If you set aside land or get your land redeemed, you are reasonably entitled to compensation to be paid by the State. That is why we in government are investing so much money. We Social Democrats clearly defend the fundamental national self-determination on forestry issues. New EU initiatives, such as proposals for implementing the 2030 EU climate and energy framework, are closely followed from this perspective. But I think that LULUCF, which we have discussed in committee, should be about precisely what it is about, namely accounting rules. We are able to meet both historical and future reference levels, and I think it is good that we arrived at an acceptable common wording in committee. However, we need to be vigilant so that we do not allow the numbers of other countries. This could damage Swedish forestry. Mrs. Old President! The Paris climate agreement is a wake-up call for all countries in the world as well as for us. It is time to move from words to action and quickly replace fossil raw materials with renewable alternatives. Raw materials that are not reproduced in nature damage the climate and will sooner or later run out. Mrs. Old President! We live on a finite planet. Forests and forestry play a very important role here, as renewable products from forests can be an important part of Sweden's global contribution to mitigating climate change. The solution is not to burn the forest instead of the oil. We need to raise our eyes and realize that it is not just the energy that is to be replaced. To live, we need good living conditions such as food, clean water, and clean air. The forest can contribute all of this. Trees can primarily be used to replace things that are today made of oil, steel and concrete. There are important motions in the report on wood construction. Everyone knows that wood is the most climate-smart building material of all, except the traditional construction companies. We want to change that. Today, 10 per cent of all multi-dwelling buildings are built in wood. Already in 2025, Sweden may have the capacity to build half of all multi-residential buildings made of wood. This would help to meet the construction needs and have major positive effects in terms of significantly reduced CO2 emissions from the construction industry, as well as providing jobs outside the major cities and new homes throughout Sweden. Professor Staffan Brege, Linköping University, notes this in a future forecast for Swedish industrial wood construction, which he presented on Tuesday at the Bioeconomic Forum. It is based on an ongoing and planned capacity increase among the wood construction industry's leading players, such as Derome, Lindbäcks Bygg, Moelven, Stora Enso, Martinsson's wood and so on. I really agree with Staffan Brege. Sweden is struggling today with major societal challenges in construction and the climate, and there is a major imbalance between city and country. In order to meet the great need for housing and premises in Sweden, we must undoubtedly increase the pace of construction. To do so, we need more efficient building processes to get away from long lead times, quality deficiencies, rising costs and lack of skills. At the same time, the climate issue is urgent. Sweden has a zero vision for carbon dioxide emissions to 2045. The construction sector accounted for the same emissions as all transport in 2012. Since then, construction has increased dramatically. The concentration of urban centres increases regional imbalances. I quote Susanne Rudenstam, Head of the Swedish Wood Building Office: We are in the middle of the breakthrough for industrial wood construction. If the 19th century belonged to the steel and the 20th century the concrete so much indicates that the 21st century becomes the century of wood. ..................................................... Mrs. Old President! The last debate was very much about 74 tonnes of gross weight. The Government is proposing to open more than 700 km of road in Sweden for longer and heavier transport. Regrettably, it seems that the Moderates have co-traded with the Swedish Democrats that all roads should be opened up immediately for longer and heavier transport. It is completely headless and unsustainable. An expansion must take place at the rate that we are able to invest in a new road network. I would like to hear where the Center, which claims to be the green voice of the bourgeoisie, stands on this issue. What is really important? Is it some kind of climate policy that the Center has left or is it just aggression against all taxes? In addition, I have noted that in its motion on the new framework infrastructure plan, the Center Party is taking money away from new signalling systems for the railways and putting them on individual roads. It's populist and short-term. We need new signalling systems so that the railways start working, so that the forest industry can transport houses by rail and so on. Forests can also replace everything we do today with oil, such as clothing and paint, by refining in biorefineries. There is a great interest right now, not least from China, in the establishment of biorefineries in northern Scandinavia. The Chinese bioenergy group Kaidi wants to make billions of investments in the production of renewable biofuels from forest waste in Sweden. This is because Sweden is about to take the step from fossil dependence to completely fossil-free. This is because Sweden is at the forefront. This is why international groups want to invest in Sweden. This benefits Swedish forestry. It's the future. It creates jobs throughout the country, Madam President. It is with an S-led red policy that we are moving towards a greener future.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1107	Mrs. Old President! Red policy for green conversion – that was the slogan of the Left Party. But a good slogan will be copied and spread, so we'll buy it. I have two questions for Isak From. The first one is short. You talk a lot about building more wood. I couldn't agree more. It is hopeful when you hear about a number of construction companies that are now starting to build in wood. After all, however, construction is still on the margins; concrete and the old - fashioned are still the norm. I simply wonder: what kind of proposals do the Social Democrats have for us to stimulate increased wood construction and perhaps make it a little more expensive to build in concrete? The report does not propose anything concrete. I would also like to ask Isak From about the key biotop inventory, which was interrupted by the Forest Board but which is now to be resumed. You need to take stock of key biotopes. It is a concept that may not be completely super-defined in certain situations, but one should find out where there are areas with high biological values. This inventory is crucial for us to know where there are forests that should be prioritised to protect. Now the Swedish Forest Board says you should start to inventory again. But the inventory should then not be registered. So you shouldn't do anything about it. We in the Left Party have mentioned that we should return to the previous work that we had until we find a complementary method that works even better. What do the Social Democrats think about this? I think you have been very quiet in the debate, where virtually everyone else has had an opinion.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1113	Mrs. Old President! Education, training and education – there is a catastrophic shortage of city architects. There is a great shortage of architects who are not of the old tribe, trained in the footsteps of the concrete industry. We need to train new skills to cope with wood construction. Then more cities have to do as Skellefteå and Växjö and develop wooden building strategies. I believe that wood has the future ahead, not least when it comes to shortening construction times. I also believe that this is a strong consumer perspective together with the fact that it is much nicer to live in a newly built wooden house. Just walk into such a house and you feel that here it is much more cozy to live. We must decide politically on a life cycle declaration on construction. I think that would be very important, and it would be very beneficial for the construction of wood. There has been a lot of discussion about key biotop inventories. Key biotopes are not a new concept. The key biotopes are a government tool that is not decided on in the Swedish parliament, but is something that the Swedish Forest Board has developed. I met during the previous term of office and also during the previous term of office many forest owners who thought that the inventories were incorrect, that they had gone too far and that they had led to restrictions on private property rights. That is why, among other things, we pushed hard for money to be made available to compensate the forest owners who are affected by this. In western Sweden there is a special circumstance, which I can return to in my final line.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1117	Mrs. Old President! I agree with building more wood. I think that more is needed than just education and whatever it was Isak From more talked about – some kind of strategy or supervision. A little sharper proposals are needed, but everything is a step in the right direction. I hope, however, that we can agree on more measures so that large-scale construction of wood will start in Sweden. The key biotop inventory can only be described as a problem for the forest owner. Above all, however, it is an important tool for identifying areas with high natural values. This is something that has been going on since the early 1990s. I am the first to agree that you may need to update the methods and make them better, make sure you have better cooperation with forest owners and so on. What I find strange, however, is that one method is thrown overboard without having anyone else. They say: Let's stop this – clean up! Then there is nothing new to replace or in any way supplement it with. I think that is why there was such a outcry on this issue. If you do not know what there is to protect in the forest, there is a great risk that we will miss out on it in the future too. Now I hope that new and even better methods will be developed than before and that we will do so quickly. Until then, however, we should continue to inventory and register as before. It's gonna be a little weird if I don't. Don't the Social Democrats think so?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1121	Mrs. Old President! I usually explain it this way: Between Kiruna and Torsby, the Inland Line. West of Inlandsbanan there is an area that you talk about as what you have paused the inventory of. It's a pretty large area. More than a quarter of Swedish forests are located in this area. I find it regrettable that the inventory has not been made there. But what has happened in recent years is that there have been many ownership changes in the area, and this means that many new forest owners have bought or inherited the land. They may have no previous experience, and they want to harvest and cultivate their forests. The Swedish Forest Board then makes an inventory of large parts of this area and finds that it is worth protecting forest everywhere. There are protected species throughout this area, they say. The whole thing was paused because we cannot do the delimitation, as we now see it. So that's why. I can understand the outrage that has been highlighted, not least by employees at the Swedish Forest Board who think that you can do this. Now they are saying that we should continue to do this, and it is also important that we continue with certification in the area. Certification responsibility and management of this remains with the individual forest owner. We follow the question. But we shouldn't think it's easy as a piece of cake, as Jens Holm says. This is a very large area, and there are many species worthy of protection. We cannot classify this whole area as a key biotope. That was never the point of using the key biotope concept. It was to find small areas at regular intervals and with many species with high protection value to be set aside. It was not a quarter of Sweden's forest that we should set aside in a key biotope.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1125	Mrs. Old President! It was interesting to listen to Isak From both in his speech and in the last line with Jens Holm. I note that Isak From clearly wants to broaden the debate quite considerably and to focus once again on infrastructure issues and other issues that were debated here for a few hours just before our debate began. Last time, he also got it to do quite a lot about housing and other things. Mrs. Old President! I take it somewhere into account because Isak From is not so happy to debate the government's forestry policy. He may find it rather embarrassing that it is so sprawling and that it is unclear what the government actually wants. There is obviously a great discrepancy in opinions and perhaps a desire to pursue a policy in a slightly different direction depending on whether you are a social democrat or an environmental party. Mrs. Old President! I also noted that Isak From toned down the concerns with the current discussions at EU level on, for example, the LULUCF Directive. This concerns me, and it confirms the concern we have felt on the part of the Alliance that the government is not really taking these issues seriously. It is believed that those rules will not have a major impact on Swedish forestry policy, but the risk is that it will cost Sweden dearly if we allow Brussels and the EU, the other Member States in any sense, to set the conditions for Swedish forestry. It will require us to buy the rights to harvest the forest that we have in our country. Doesn't Isak From see those risks? Finally, I would like to ask Isak From if he shares the view that we need to produce more timber in Sweden.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1129	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for the questions, Johan Hultberg! In fact, I am concerned that the issue of LULUCF is being raised to become populist. It is very important that we agree on national self-determination. I see the greatest risk of becoming populist in different directions. It has been a strength for Sweden that we have had a united front. I said in my speech that we in Sweden had passed both accounting methods even with a higher level of forest withdrawal. What is worrying is that if we push the issue so hard that we allow other countries the number trixing, it risks in the long term to damage Swedish forestry and Swedish forest industry. I think that's serious. I can see that there are good opportunities to pick more of the growth out of the forest. It is, among other things, because of the possibilities that this government has now decided that we are raising taxes on fossil fuels in heating plants. We are lowering and will reduce taxes on a number of biofuels. We want more chips in the heating plants. We want to increase the proportion of products that forest owners can sell, sell, and earn income for. That's the difference. That's what we do. We look at the innovation opportunities that exist in the forest: new materials, new chemical products and new fuels that can come onto the market and create jobs, future and growth. That's the way we want to go. Populist nonsense belongs somewhere else.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1132	Mrs. Old President! I think this was a rather strange jump. I find it a little strange if it is populism to stand up for Swedish national self-determination over forestry policy and to warn against not taking EU directives and discussions about it seriously. Frankly, I am concerned, Isak From, about the somewhat elegant attitude of the Social Democrats on this issue. I have seen that there is a great consensus between Moderates and Social Democrats on forestry, forestry and the potential of the forest industry. But here I feel that, to be honest, these issues are not taken very seriously. This applies not only to the LULUCF Directive, but also to the so-called Renewables Directive, where it is now being discussed that there should be a significant restriction on, for example, the possibility of using biofuels from the first generation. It may benefit the more advanced biofuels from the forest, it is possible, but we need to safeguard all biofuels if we are to meet the ambitious climate targets that we have jointly agreed in the Environment Agenda. Mrs. Old President! Speaking of climate policy, Isak From highlighted it in his line-shift here and beat his chest when it comes to government policy. Unfortunately, however, we can see that at the moment Swedish emissions are rising. They're rising. But the costs of climate policy are also rising. Obviously, Isak From, the Social Democratic and environmentalist climate policy is not very effective. It leads to higher costs but unfortunately also higher emissions, so it is obviously a major failure. It is good if we agree that we should promote innovations in forestry and product development in industry, and therefore I sincerely hope that the government is now pushing forward and bringing forward the national forest programme and continuing to prioritise the forest issues in research policy in the same way as the Alliance did.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1137	Mrs. Old President! The forest, the forest industry and the income from the forest are of course extremely important for Sweden. They have been and will be. I'm a little worried about the skills supply in the forest industry. We need to attract more people to work in the forest, both at the clearing and as hunters, and we need to attract more people to read to architect and city architect and so on so that we can get a wood building going. The demand for the forest is good. As I said in my speech, several major international Chinese companies want to invest in northern Scandinavia. An investment in northern Finland has already been decided, and now we are looking at Sweden. Why? Because Sweden is at the forefront and makes decisions towards a bio-based economy and away from fossil dependence. That is why investments are made in Sweden. I think we should continue to agree. I am pleased that we reached a negotiating position that we agree on with LULUCF and that we can both stand up for. That's why I'm also saying as it is: Stop playing that card! We have a deal. Stop fooling around about this. Swedish forestry policy is decided on here in Sweden, and something else is not relevant. We'll tell everyone that, and I think everyone understands that. Everyone also welcomes the effort we are making towards a bio-based society. That is the way we must go, and that is the future.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1141	Mrs. Old President! We are debating forestry policy today. It is an important policy area, because the forest is important to all of us. Some of us love to pick mushrooms and berries. Others like to take a run or walk with the dog in the woods. Some people like to hunt. Many gather power and recover in the forest. The forest also provides renewable materials that are needed in the sustainable construction of society. Many important social interests exist in the forest, but at the same time all Swedish forests are owned by someone. Forest owners can be anything from a private person who owns a few hectares to a large company with gigantic forest areas. And one fifth of the forest is state or municipal, so we're all owners of it. Forests provide important ecosystem services, nature's free services. Central ecosystem services include those already mentioned – health and renewable raw materials – but also air and water purification. The forest also stabilizes the climate and has a smoothing effect on temperature, precipitation and runoff. It also contains a rich biodiversity and has great beauty values. Social and private interests in the forest must be managed in a sustainable and systematic manner, respecting different views on forest values. However, the key to how forests must be managed and used is that forest ecosystems retain their ecological function, biodiversity and production capacity. It is a prerequisite for long-term sustainable, resilient and productive ecosystems. Today's use of the forest must not deteriorate tomorrow. Mrs. Old President! That society regulates the use of a resource such as the forest is necessary and justified because, as has been said, its use has a huge impact on society as a whole both now and in the future. Natural resources such as land, water and forests are mankind's common heritage from previous generations, which we borrow and will return to the future generations. The owner of a natural resource manages it for a period of time and has a responsibility for its sustainable use. Society creates rules for this, and these rules must ensure that farming is sustainable in the long term. However, current regulations and practices in the use of forests do not lead to this. This is reflected in the government's follow-up to environmental objectives and in scientific studies on the state of biodiversity in the forest landscape. A number of improvements are therefore needed in forestry, both as regards forestry methods and as regards the protection of forests with high natural values. Mrs. Old President! Forest raw materials, as many have already said, are central to a sustainable society. The Green Party wants to protect a long-term profitable and sustainable use of the forest. The regulatory systems governing use must be understandable and legally secure for landowners and possible for society to follow up and evaluate. The Forestry Act is an important instrument for achieving environmental objectives. According to the Environmental Protection Agency's in-depth evaluation, one of the most important measures to meet environmental objectives is to change forest policy instruments in order to obtain cost-effective instruments for a sustainable forest management. The Green Party wants a system that provides increased profitability for those who manage their forests with extra consideration for biological and social values. We're not there today. Mrs. Old President! The Green Party has a forestry policy with high ambitions for the protection of areas for the conservation of animal and plant species and valuable nature. As a minimum, we need to follow the strategic plan, the Nagoya Protocol, adopted in 2010 under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. This means that Sweden will protect 17% of all land and freshwater areas in the long term by 2020. These areas shall be of biological value. Currently, only about 5% of the productive forest land is covered by statutory protection. The protection is also unevenly distributed – large areas of coniferous forests are protected near the mountain chain while about 2 per cent are protected in the rest of Sweden. The Green Party considered in 2014 and still believes that the milestones need to be increased and that additional funds need to be allocated to achieve the objectives of the Nagoya Protocol. We also want state forest land to be used as exchange land for those forest owners who want other land rather than money. But, Madam President, protecting forests is not enough to meet national and international environmental objectives. A transition to sustainable use of forest land is also necessary. Through the Nagoya Protocol, Sweden has undertaken to manage areas that are used for forestry in a sustainable manner by 2020 – it is not far to go – in order to ensure the conservation of biodiversity. It is therefore not only a question of leaving untouched areas, but also of managing the forest that is managed in other ways. Trakthyggesbruket has been applied on a large scale since the 1950s and has brought revolutionary changes to the Swedish forest landscape. Forests with different kinds of trees of different ages have been replaced by plantings of corpse trees. The Green Party wants to see farming methods that create forests with different-aged trees, leaves and left-over dead wood. Non-poor forestry practices should be promoted, as they have great benefits for biodiversity, outdoor life, tourism, reindeer nutrition and cultural values. Interest in clean forestry is growing. I'm glad to hear that. At the same time, however, it is still a very small part, only a few percent, of the productive forest land that is managed by some kind of decent forestry method. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's in-depth follow-up in 2015, as I mentioned earlier, states that a significant increase in areas that are managed using non-slip methods is needed. It also notes the need for new and reinforced measures to this end. The Environmental Party therefore believes that the Swedish Forest Agency's funding for advice on non-slip farming practices is important and should be increased. We also think that those forest owners who want to switch from rural to non-housing forestry should be able to receive conversion aid just as it is now possible to obtain aid for conversion from conventional to organic farming. We also believe that the state should set an example in its forestry. Sveaskog, Fortificationsverket and Statens Fastighetsverk should therefore give priority to clean methods. We believe that targets for clean wood should be set for state forest holdings. Mrs. Old President! Key biotopes, i.e. forest areas with very high natural values, play an important role in preserving the endangered plants and animals of the forest. These areas have been surveyed using a common method nationally since the 1990s. Studies show that there are many areas with key biotopes quality that have not yet been recorded. The pace of the key biotop inventory should therefore be increased in order to reduce the risk that valuable areas are accidentally harvested. The fact that Skogsstyrelsens gd instead goes out and pauses the inventory in large parts of Sweden is completely baroque and has aroused great criticism from environmental organisations, researchers and the Swedish Forest Agency's own officials. In the collaboration group set up to develop the methods for the key biotop inventory, both environmental organisations and researchers have left the discussions. The Board of Forests has tried to take its gd in the ear and decided on Tuesday at its board meeting that the inventory should be resumed, however without any registrations to be made. The strange move from Skogsstyrelsen's gd has diluted the already polarised forest debate. It's very troubling, I think. The responsible Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht now has a tough task, both to get a better climate for conversation and to avoid that the pause – or if we are to call it a half-pause – leads to protective forests being harvested. Finally, Madam President-in-Office, I would like to endorse the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1163	Mrs. Old President! It was interesting to listen also to Stina Bergström. For the audience in this debate, I would like to make a brief point: Stina Bergström is not in opposition, but she represents a government party. It sounded at Stina Bergström as if the Green Party is not in the government. It was a very long list of everything the Green Party wants and runs. Stina Bergström! Why, then, is this not happening when you are now in the government? Is it perhaps the case that you disagree with the Social Democrats? Why do you not, for example, introduce targets for how much cleanness should be carried out by Sveaskog? You have the opportunity when you are in a government position to, for example, draft ownership directives for a state-owned company. Mrs. Old President! I was genuinely pleased when I heard Stina Bergström say that the Green Party wants to try to increase the profitability of those who manage their forests with great environmental considerations. I thought that Stina Bergström and the Green Party might finally have realised that today's handling of the Species Protection Regulation and the Key Biotop Inventory and that concept unfortunately has negative consequences. This often leads to a completely reversed incentive structure, in which the forest owner who has taken great responsibility for and due account of the environment and biodiversity has to take a very large economic risk. But later it sounded like Stina Bergström did not see any problems at all with the key biotop inventory but thought that the pace should be increased and so on. I would like to ask Stina Bergström whether the Green Party sees no problems whatsoever with today's handling of the Species Protection Regulation and the key biotope concept.
i-YJ458fQFUfU3Cp6SyCCALf	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Johan Hultberg! I just want to say to Johan Hultberg that my speech from the outset was about twice as long. I've removed all the good things the government has done, because that's what I've been thinking I can use in my lines. I am very proud of the extra nature conservation billion every year that our government has allocated to protect and care for valuable nature. In fact, it allows us to approach the goal of how much nature is to be protected that your government set up in 2014. You would not be able to do that with the budget you have. I think that is very worrying, because when we took office as a government there were actually many forest owners who stood in line and did not get their money although the county administrative board had pointed out areas that had to be protected and made a nature reserve. Now they have been able to graze by the sex, and I find that very pleasing. As far as the key biotope inventory is concerned, I find it a little strange. It started in the 90's when we got the new forestry law, which talks about a handshake between forestry and environmental interests and freedom under responsibility. The certification was also started, because it is related to this. A certified forest owner shall not harvest key biotopes. It is also intended to protect 5% of the productive forest land. But as a forest owner, you also need to know where you have key biotopes. It was decided then that the Forest Board helps the private forest owners to inventory so that they know what key biotopes they have. The big companies can do this themselves. This has been done, but more needs to be done so that I, as a forest owner, know that I am not violating certification.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1174	Mrs. Old President! When it comes to the key biotope inventory, I share the history description. It was set up as a way of trying to identify and find valuable natural areas. But we must also see that, as it has come to be applied, it has had completely different consequences from those intended; it even points to the authorities themselves. My question was also about the species protection regulation. There, the implementation and application in Sweden of rules that are about trying to protect environments and species has become rather such that they try to protect individuals of a particular species. This is problematic, and it is worrying if the Green Party does not see it. In fact, it is often the forest owners who have taken a great deal of responsibility, carried out a so-called ogsbruk with great consideration and tried to get more leaves, save older forests and so on that have created these high natural values and made it possible to get the species that are on the red list, for example. It is not reasonable that it is these forest owners who should be punished financially and pay an extra price for it. That is why I think it is very important to review the application of these rules. Mrs. Old President! I am not so naive as to think that the government listens too much to what I say. Nevertheless, I hope that the government will listen to the 200 000 members of the LRF Forest owners and the large forest owners' associations, who have appealed to the government to review these rules and create a more legally secure and predictable system. Legal certainty was something that Stina Bergström highlighted in her speech – I hope it can be put into practice.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1178	Mrs. Old President! I fully agree with Johan Hultberg: I do not think it is the forest owners who should pay if they have a valuable forest that should be protected. That is why it is so important that we have now invested more in being able to replace forest owners. It is about replacing forest owners when establishing nature reserves, but also when it comes to biotopes and nature conservation agreements. As far as these two are concerned, when I look at the budget, I see that the Moderates have removed that money in their shadow budget. So my question might be, how do the Moderates think when you take even more money away from forest protection? Yes, I know that Johan Hultberg cannot answer that, but I can still think about how to imagine. As far as the EU's directive on species and habitats is concerned, since 1995, when we joined the European Union, we are going to comply with it. We have been a little tough and bad at implementing this in the legislation, and I think it is important that we do it in a legally secure way. I also think it is good that we now have legal cases that show how we should interpret this. Now we have had a case concerning the bomb wall, where it is really about a national peace announcement that has now come back to the county administrative board in my own county, Värmland. Now the county administrative board is thinking about how to do it. Should you grant an exemption in this case so that you can do the logging, should you protect the area or should you grant an exemption with conditions? In this case, for example, if a clean logging is carried out, we could protect the bomb wall and still have forestry in that forest. This is one of those cases where the forest owner should be compensated for the clean logging.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1183	Mrs. Old President! I agree with Stina Bergström on what she said about the importance of giving us more of clean forestry. It is entirely in line with the fact that we need to have more variation in forestry. I also think that it sounds like a good idea with a conversion support for those who want to move to it and that the Swedish Forest Agency needs increased funding for advice. One could also imagine that we are setting a milestone for how large areas of decent forestry we want in the future. Does the Green Party think that would be a good proposal? Then I would like to ask Stina Bergström about the objective of forest protection. We in the Left Party, as Bergström also said from the speaker's seat, say that it is really the Nagoya agreement that should apply. There we are talking about 17% protection of the forest land. As Mr Bergström said, today we are protecting 5% to 7%, so it is quite far from it. We in the Left Party propose that we have a goal that is in line with the Nagoya agreement – something like what Bergström just stated. However, Stina Bergström will vote against it when we then proceed to a decision on this report. I would therefore like to ask whether the Green Party believes that the objective now set for living forests is sufficient. It provides for the protection of another 150 000 hectares, plus, if I understand it correctly, a figure of 200 000 hectares in voluntary provisions. I would also like to know what the Green Party thinks. Can these voluntary provisions be taken into account in the formal objective of how much forest is to be protected in Sweden?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1188	Mrs. Old President! Thank you very much for the questions, Jens Holm! To begin with the objectives of cleanliness, the Green Party feels that goals are good. We think it would be a good idea to start by setting targets for state forest holdings. I also think that in the future one could have a target for the entire forest area, but I think it is quite difficult at the moment to say what that target would be. I think it would be a bit sad if we were to get into a discussion about how big the target should be and end up on different sides. With regard to state forest holdings, on the other hand, I believe that one could have a very high target for how much should be clean. I and the Green Party think that the state forest companies would be a real example and a forerunner in sustainable forestry. With regard to the targets, as I said in my speech, the Green Party, like the Left Party, had higher ambitions when we dealt with the issue in 2014 and the target of 150 000 hectares of formally protected forest land and 200 000 hectares of voluntary provisions were set by the Alliance Government – we felt that the milestone should be set higher. What we are seeing now is that this is the target for 2020, and the government has made great provisions; it is ticking on. However, according to a recent report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, we need to allocate an additional 900 million by 2020 to achieve this goal. So, yes, we can set a higher intermediate target, but we must also ensure that we achieve the goal we have. I think it is more important with the work and the additional means to achieve that we really protect the forest.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1193	Mrs. Old President! Maybe it's such a thing that things are connected. If you have a higher target, there will also be greater pressure on us to have the means, that is, money, to achieve that goal. That is why I think the Green Party should consider our reservation 1 until we vote next week. Our reservation 1 is about us having a goal in line with the Nagoya agreement. I think it makes perfect sense from this reasoning. Protecting 150,000 hectares is not enough, as Stina Bergström says. I did not receive an answer to the question of voluntary provisions. I think this is an important issue. In his response to the Left Party motion, on p. 8 of the report, reference is made to a reply from Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, where he is talking about the 150 000 hectares in formal protection, but then he also includes 200 000 hectares in voluntary provisions. If voluntary provisions are to be included, we need to have some kind of public definition of what protection should look like there. For example, one should not be able to move one outlet from one day to another, and one should not circumvent the fact that it should be ecologically representative areas that are connected. This is often the problem of provisions, with all due respect to those who make them. It is important that they are done, but they may not be included in formal protection. Or does the Green Party, as I interpret Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht in the report, think that voluntary provisions can be included in the public objective of protection of a valuable nature?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1195	Mrs. Old President! I am fully convinced that we must also have voluntary provisions in order to reach the Nagoya target. We will not be able to do so with just formal protection. Today, as I said, 5% is protected. It is very important to take advantage of the great interest and commitment to protect the forest that exists with many forest owners, both in certification and with forest owners who are not certified but who still save large areas. But of course you have to have a registration, and you have to know that it is a long-term protection in some way. It does not really stand as it is today, where we do not know if many of the voluntary provisions will remain when you change owners in the forest. It's very hard to get it right. Conservation agreements and biotopes protection are part of formal protection. It has been written there in a number of years. One might imagine that this protection could also be registered by the forest owner for a number of years.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1198	Mrs. Old President! It has been said very wisely about the forest here, so there may not be much to add. We agree that without exaggerating, we can say that the forest makes us rich. Most Swedes have a relationship with the forest in different ways. We are a people who like to be in the woods picking mushrooms and berries, doing outdoor activities and so on. In this context, biodiversity strengthens the social value of forests. But the forest is so much more. What we are discussing is the balance between the use, conservation and protection of forests. Like I said, the forest makes us rich. It gives us considerable export revenue. I have a figure here: More than 10 percent of Sweden's export revenue comes from the forest. Then the forest has also become increasingly prominent when we discuss the climate. It is perhaps something relatively new, after all. In the past, there was much discussion about the destruction of rain forests and such things, and perhaps we did not feel that it touched us. But our own forests are also extremely important in this context. We also see this in the discussion on land use and so on. It is both about the forest as carbon-lowering – the trees are in the forest – and about the possibility of using the forest to replace what today comes from fossil raw materials. This is what we call substitution, isn't it? That word is used on and off. We must learn to exploit this in a long-term and sustainable way. It is about building wood, as has been mentioned. It is also about biofuels, chemicals and textiles. This is something that is becoming increasingly topical again. Here Sweden has really great opportunities. In the previous debate, where we discussed 74-tonne trucks, some were about how we transport the forest. The criticism of truck transport was that cars run on fossil fuels. But why should trucks not be able to go on biofuels? This goes hand in hand: The forest should be enough for a lot of things in the world. Last year when we were discussing the forest, we had two announcements. One was precisely the focus of the forestry programme, that we had two equal objectives: the production target and the environmental objective. I still see that no one has left it. Then we can discuss what we mean by them being equal, but it is still firm that they should be. The Liberals are also fully behind this. When we talk about this, it is about economic, social and environmental values in the forest. Forests play a key role in the emergence of the bio-based economy. Now I do not really know how it goes with the Forest Programme, but we got a little vague answer from the Rural Minister at the Bioeconomic Forum the other day. He floated a little on the target, but he probably landed in that it was 2018 that was the realistic. There were some difficulties, the Minister said. The second announcement we made last year was about forests in relation to the European Union. Johan Hultberg mentioned the LULUCF directive and the difficulties surrounding it. To put it mildly, we can say that we had a little discussion on this in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, but we nevertheless reached a common position, namely that Sweden must have advice over its own forest and that we must decide on felling on our own premises, of course with a sustainability aspect on the whole. Mrs. Old President! As far as forests and ecosystem services are concerned, we have no other point of view than that both the state and forest owners have a central responsibility in this in order to safeguard nature conservation and environmental considerations in farming. It will be something of a top-down perspective when we discuss how forest owners should cultivate their forest, whether you should have horticulture or whether you should have continuity forestry, and then we discuss percentages here and there. But it is also important to have a bottom-up perspective, so that you bring with you those who own and use the forest. I have taken note of what Skogforsk has written about this. One problem in the research on continuity forest management is that the practice has been the norm. On this basis, research has been carried out to improve that method, with general rules of consideration and such things. There has been much less research into alternative farming methods. It is certain that a great deal of knowledge is also required. We brought up the wooden building. It's the same thing there. I do not believe that the best way to build concrete is through ignorance and lack of tradition. There is also a huge potential. Finally, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to highlight forest owners as key people, if I may say so here. It is very important that, in the debate, we do not portray forest owners as people whom we must take in the hemp because they do not take responsibility. My impression is that virtually all forest owners take a huge responsibility for their forests and that there is a broad consensus that we need general consideration. It's just a matter of seeing what it's supposed to look like. But forests also need to be protected. General rules of consideration are not enough, but the forest must also be protected if we are to cope with biodiversity. When we talk about the key biotopes concept, it is important that we have great respect for property rights and that it should pay off to build a forest with biodiversity in the long term. I heard something that I thought was a bit worth thinking when I was at the Bioeconomic Forum the day before yesterday. I was told by one person that forest owners fell their forest prematurely. They're afraid to take a chance. It could grow another 15 years, but they don't dare take a chance. Biodiversity could develop in such a way that it does not eventually prevail over the forest. Then the whole system is counterproductive. It is very important that we take stock of the key biotopes, but it is also important that we have a system where it really pays to have the type of forestry that creates these key biotopes.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1214	Mrs. Old President! The Swedish forest, known as the green gold, is a very important resource with many different uses. We all think so in this debate, and we want to say that. First of all, the forest is responsible for an important part of our planet's ecosystem. The trees absorb carbon dioxide and emit oxygen, which we all need to breathe. Thus, the forest functions as nature's own lung. Forests are also home to a large number of species and thus protect biodiversity. As we have heard several mention, the forest is important for recreation. It also gives peace and tranquillity to us humans. It is not least an inexhaustible source of inspiration for many creators of art, music and singing. It is also a source of inspiration for fairy tales and legends. Since time immemorial, the forest has belonged to the most important basic industries in our country and is still today one of Sweden's main sources of export income. The export value in 2016 was SEK 125 billion. In addition, the forestry industry provides employment to approximately 100 000 people in Sweden. Forests are already an important renewable energy source, and their importance for climate-neutral energy supply is expected to increase in the future. The Environmental Objectives Committee's report also highlights the potential of Swedish forests from a climate policy perspective. Sweden must clearly say no to the EU setting a ceiling for logging in the Member States. Of course, forestry policy must remain a national concern. If we are to achieve the climate goals, we must be able to phase out the fossil economy in favour of the bio-based and circular economy. Then we must get the EU to accept that we can maintain the tax exemption for biofuels even after 2018. There are many branches, treetops and bark in the forest, which can be used for biofuels. Mrs. Old President! The Christian Democrats are behind a forestry policy based on a balance between production targets and environmental objectives. That is a reasonable attitude. Recently, the Christian Democrats, through my fellow Member Magnus Oscarsson, in collaboration with the Forest Association, arranged what is called Forest Day here in Parliament. It was the second year in a row that this was done. It was a very well attended and set up seminar with about 140 participants from all over the country. The issue that attracted the greatest commitment was ownership. Several trends today indicate a growing threat to property rights. Mrs. Old President! Since the beginning of 2016, Skogsstyrelsen has published logging notifications online. These publications mean that many forest owners feel hung out and anxious. In addition, the number of appeals is increasing, which causes additional work for the forester. A lot of people tell me that. Moreover, it is serious if the gap of trust between forest owners and authorities is at risk of widening when committed and knowledgeable government officials sometimes act almost as activists rather than as impartial officials. This means that the application of laws can slip away without prior political decisions. This is a threat not only to property rights but also to democracy. The Land and Environment Court of Appeal has recently ruled in favour of ownership in the high-profile case of Bomb Walls in Värmland, while special protection rules apply to birds and mammals. That is why many people are now waiting for the ruling of the Land and Environment Court in the case of the crowbird lavskråkan. In order to ensure clarity and security for forest owners, the Government should implement changes to the Species Protection Regulation in order to avoid misinterpretations. Mrs. Old President! I suppose I am not the only Member of Parliament who has been contacted by desperate forest owners who have been effectively stopped from forestry because of key biotopes in the area. It was a welcome message that the Swedish Forest Board has decided to pause, as we have heard before, even if the inventory continues. At the same time, the problem remains that key biotopes are not meant to be an instrument for stopping felling, although it is often felt that way. There is a need for continued dialogue between the various actors in the forest. Forests are an important resource that needs to be used responsibly. History shows that it is precisely ownership that has been able to deliver such responsible use. All in all, there is every reason for gathering around the forest, individual forest ownership and responsible forestry. I and the Christian Democrats will continue to be a vote in the Riksdag for forest owners and foresters who want to work responsibly. Mrs. Old President! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1231	Mrs. Old President! The work on forest protection is largely guided by the interim objectives of the environmental objectives system. The interim target now in force was decided by the previous government on 2014. This means, among other things, that forest land to be formally protected will increase by about 150 000 hectares by 2020. In order to achieve the goal of formal protection, money is needed to replace forest owners, if you think that forest owners should be replaced. Our cooperation government has therefore made the greatest effort ever and doubled the grant for protection of a valuable nature from 600 million to 1.2 billion a year. In addition, funding for biotopes protection and conservation agreements has been increased by EUR 100 million a year. Despite the fact that these milestones in the environmental objectives system were adopted by the Alliance Government, which included Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell's Party of Christian Democrats, the Christian Democrats want to cut off this whole initiative that the government is making. That is why I would like to ask Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell how you think. Do the Christian Democrats not think that forest owners should receive compensation when they refrain from felling their forests?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1234	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for asking, Stina Bergström! Certainly it is right to receive compensation. Then, of course, the question is how hard to go forward, and what I have described here with regard to the key biotopes was that it is not really an instrument for stopping logging. Many times, as the honourable Member mentioned, exchanges and so on can be agreed. Of course you should be able to get compensation from the state, and that is what you get today. However, our budgets provide different conditions, which is not entirely unknown to Stina Bergström. We do not charge as much tax as the current government does in its budget, and that is why we have completely different opportunities to spend on this very thing. That's what it looks like, and that's the harsh reality.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1237	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for a part of an answer! Nevertheless, I am thinking: if, as the Alliance Government did, we adopt a goal – which I think is good, even if the Green Party itself thinks that we should have adopted an even higher intermediate target in order to achieve the goal that we have said internationally that we should do in the Nagoya Protocol – of 150 000 hectares of forest land and somewhere thinks that we should protect it by 2020, then we must have had a plan for how to do it and whether forest owners would be paid to protect this land. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell talks about the fact that we have different budgets. Yes, but there must have been a plan, and I'm still a little curious. What was the plan in 2014 when you adopted this goal for how much protection we would have of the forest in Sweden?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1240	Mrs. Old President! I was not on this committee at the time, and I have no idea what the plan was. I don't know it. However, we must, of course, try to achieve what was laid down then; that is quite clear. The exact pace and amount of bet depends on the resources available. There it is, as Mrs Bergström rightly says, that we have different budgets and not the same opportunities to go in and invest more money as you can, because you are charging more tax on taxpayers. That's what it looks like.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1243	Ma'am, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, ma'am. It's getting sparse, but there's a few more – thank you! I say a little as in the debate on heavy transport that it would be wrong for me to say nothing about this. My livelihood has been the forest for 30 years before I became a member of Parliament. I've been growing up in the woods. I've been working there my whole life. I know this part, and I'm going to correct a few things that have been made here today. When they started with the key biotop inventory, it was a tool, a classification, for natural value assessments, and the basis was made in southern Sweden. The fact that it looks different in north-west Sweden is because the farming and felling methods have been different. There's been a lot more picking. The industry has been further away. When you started inventorying in northwestern Sweden, just as Isak From was on, it became a lot of key biotopes. A quarter of the forest would be classified as a key biotope. That's not the idea. Then something's not right. The tool is blunt and bad. It wasn't credible. I'm staying there on this. I'm proud of the Left Party policy on the forest. Jens Holm is the spokesperson. It is his territory, and I agree with what he has said. But I'm going to read something that our Congress has adopted. We have an ecological-economic point programme, where we say something about the forest: 中 The forest plays several roles in the climate transition. It binds carbon dioxide as it grows, we store carbon dioxide when we build in wood, it gives bioenergy and can replace oil-based products. Increased growth in the forest is therefore desirable. The research shows that growing forests bind most CO2(CO2), so it is important that the users of woodlands (coal felling) reforest quickly and with the right wood species, in order to quickly regain the climate benefit of the forest land. Other forestry practices such as continuity forestry should be encouraged where appropriate and possible in terms of forestry, and in areas of great benefit for recreation and other industries. ..................................................... It can be good to say that this and this much we will use continuity forestry. But it should be made clear that not all chips are suitable for that. Everyone talks a lot about building wood. But then we'll miss out on a few areas. We're not getting the timber share that we're looking for. I definitely argue that we can make more use of continuity forestry. That's it. But there are chips that are definitely not suitable for it. I'm gonna take some history. I started as a manual cutter in the early 80's. On the first mountain where I was a cutter and cut off we cut 300 - year - old pine trees – a whole mountain! What would have happened if we hadn't had an active environmental movement that said: Is this appropriate? Of course it wasn't! We fell an entire mountain with giant talents. It was in the '80s. What would have happened if we hadn't had an environmental movement that said: But was this so wise? No, it wasn't. But today we are also going to be sober and say, as Tysklind was on and as I told him when we were at the same seminar, that today there are some in the environmental movement that have a dast agenda, and that is to stop logging. That's all it's about, where are we going to stop a logging? It's counterproductive. Then the landowners make them cut something in fear that in ten years' time they'll find something. And the forest would be better off standing for another ten or fifteen years, clearly. This is something we need to take with us. Both the environmental movement and the forest industry must back up one step and see how we can come up with something that can be classified as sustainable forestry. I have a lot to say, but time is limited. I only have six minutes. Mistakes have also been made. In the directive on species and habitats that Sweden has transposed, there is a favourable conservation status for the Western tight. We'll never get that. We have to stop all logging for 40 years if we're going to reach it. It is impossible to reach, but these are the demands that came along. At some point we may have to go through this and see what is reasonable and what we can achieve. There are impossible goals among the 16 goals, and then there are good goals. I have time to say a little bit about biodiversity. It is clear that this is a good thing, and I think that the government has invested very good money in replacing landowners and trying to achieve what is safe in terms of biodiversity. But what happens today? We have about 900 species that may be threatened by forestry. 800 are located in southern Sweden and 150 are located in northern Sweden, of them a total of 950. But in northern Sweden we already have protection. In southern Sweden there are 70 hectares per protected species, and in northern Sweden there are almost 3 000. What are we supposed to protect? It is often better to protect 10 hectares of hardwood forest in southern Sweden than 100,000 hectares in northern Sweden. The money has to hit the right place now that we're dedicating money.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1263	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for the story from a long time in the woods. It was especially interesting to hear about this large area, a quarter of the forest, where the Forest Board has paused the inventory of key biotopes. The reason why there is so much valuable forest is that it has not been used for the same purpose but that more attention has been paid to clean forestry. That's interesting. This is something that speaks even more for the need for more forms of clean forestry. That method needs to be used more. As I said in my speech, today only a few percent of non-hygetic forestry methods are used. We in the Green Party believe that state-owned companies should primarily use clean forestry methods. The Left Party has a reservation here where it wants to go even further. Jens Holm and I discussed the issue earlier. The reservation states that a national target is to be set for the area of clear-cut forestry to be included in the environmental quality objective Living forests. What percentage, Birger Lahti, is the Left Party thinking?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1266	Mrs. Old President! I'm sure it's a good thing with goals. We have not specified the proportion, but we could certainly land in what is reasonable. But it'll be crazy and wrong if it's done in the wrong place. A clean-cut forestry should be carried out where appropriate, as I pointed out in our Ecological-Economic Point Programme, adopted by the Congress. Unique and endangered environments in the forest area should be protected, and it should be done where appropriate. It will be wrong if we allow cheap forest owners to lay seed tree stands where it is not suitable. It just gets wrong, and we lose forest land that could be used for good production of pine or spruce. I also think there should be a goal. It should be a goal that sets out what we should achieve when it comes to decent forestry. Then the Forest Board must know its case and advise the forest owners on what they can use. That is an objective that we can certainly achieve. But we should not give a cheap forest owner who does not want to invest in the forest the opportunity to say that here he will take action if it is not suitable for the land.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1269	Mrs. Old President! It was an interesting reflection about a cheap forest owner. That's not the way we talk. The debate on clean forestry is more about the fact that it would be more difficult, more complicated and cost more. I do not really agree with the reality statement that it would be cheap forest owners who engage in non-hygetic forestry methods. I don't think so. The forest owners I meet want to devote themselves to a modern form of forestry. They do not want to engage in horticulture because they have many other interests in the forest. I mentioned in my speech that advice is good. The Swedish Forest Board is already engaged in this today, but it needs to be expanded and tightened up. There is a need for methodological development. The state companies can make a great deal of that development. The Swedish Forest Agency could provide a kind of conversion aid to forest owners who want to move from rural to non-housing forestry, just as when moving from conventional farming to organic farming. Does the Left Party think it's a good idea?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1273	Mrs. Old President! Absolutely! I did not mean that all forest owners are wrong, but it must not be the case that a forest owner places seed trees in a place where it is not suitable. It just gets wrong. It is a completely different matter if the land is suitable for bare-cut forestry. Then it's gonna happen. The Forest Board should encourage and encourage those who have such land to do so. Does Stina Bergström know about the following? In Germany it is called bare-cut forestry if you use seed trees. Then it's not a kalhyggesbruk because you use seed trees. But that is not the case with Sweden. The names are different. Clearly, I think we can make more use of other methods in forestry, but that should be done in those places where it is appropriate. If we are to build in wood and produce the materials that you also wrangle, timber is needed. You can't get timber out of the woods unless it's done the right way. You can pick, but fellings are more expensive and you cannot get the same share of the most valuable that can be used to build. But it's possible on the right land. The fellings can increase significantly more than today, but not on all land.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1277	Mrs. Old President! Thanks to Birger Lahti for a clear-sighted and constructive contribution to the forest debate. It was welcome. Mrs. Old President! Fish is a common resource that does not respect national boundaries. In many cases, fish play in one place and are fished in another. This means that we must have a fisheries policy based on cooperation, here in Sweden between different interests and internationally between countries fishing in the same waters. As a member of the European Union, Sweden has access to one of the world's largest fishing opportunities. The EU fishing industry is the world's fourth largest and delivers over 6 million tonnes of fish per year. These are amazing figures. It gets rings on the water. Fisheries, and food processing, which is closely linked to fishing, employ more than 350 000 people. Also add all that's around there. It is the hotel nights for anglers who travel here, the archipelago environment that is developing and the cultural heritage that remains. It's a lot of value. Fishing is simply of great importance. It contributes more than just by putting healthy food on our plates. It contributes to our common, and it contributes to the image of Sweden abroad. Mrs. Old President! As a moderate Member, I am proud of the reform of the common fisheries policy that came about at European level during the time of the alliance government in power. Without it, overfishing would have been allowed to continue. An entire Swedish profession had seen the nets become empty and empty until they had finally had to look around to sell their ship. Biodiversity had continued to decline, and ecosystem disruptions had been significant and permanent. One should be clear that even more boring than the disappearance of fishermen is the disappearance of the fish. Now the reform is complete. The bottom plate is fixed, and that's good. But for the Swedish part there is still a central and important challenge, and that is that the Red-Green Government must act decisively in order for the new regulatory framework that comes with it to be implemented in all Member States. This must be done without unnecessary regulatory problems and different interpretations contributing to distortions of competition. In Sweden, it is about looking at how fishing licences can be transferred between generations, boats and time periods. I think that we generally need to look at how our rigid regulations can be harmonised with those of neighbouring countries, because it is not for the benefit of anyone that Swedish fishing, which is among the more gentle, is replaced by inundating foreign fishing fleets. In view of this, I would like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of Amendment No 5 on further simplification of professional fishing. In the reservation, we refer in particular to the landing obligation, which means that fishermen need to land all the catches they pick out of the sea. This is basically good. The draft ban means curbing cheating, which I think is desirable. However, the regulatory framework must also be practically enforceable. Impossible regulations really only sow mistrust and benefit no one. The authorities' approach to the rules on landing obligations should take into account the competitiveness of Swedish fisheries. It is therefore reasonable to look at how the rules are handled in other EU countries that are subject to the same regulatory framework, but more about this in reservation 5. Mrs. Old President! My main message today is that simplification must continue. To a large extent, it is similar to the agricultural policy that we are proposing from a moderate point of view. Regrettably, the government does not seem to be so keen to give priority to fisheries policy. In fact, during this parliamentary term, we have seen only one bill, last year, with some adjustments to the legal text that the European Union and the Treaty of Lisbon give us as a gift, so to speak. This year we have a proposal announced regarding the Fisheries Act, but it will only come after the summer. It is also unclear what it contains or aims for. Instead, consider what the various parties express in their forums – what they want to do with fisheries policy and what the long-term goal is. Here it is clear that the Left Party and the Green Party have said in various rounds that they want to ban trawl fishing in Sweden. The Green Party has certainly quieted a little after it became a government party, but now that the Social Democrats at their congress in Gothenburg have stated that they want to ban all trawl fishing, the rumours are beginning to spread again. Absolutely – trawling has an environmental impact, but it also has many other human activities. It should be remembered in this context that Swedish fishing uses selective gear and is prominent. Small improvements are being made all the time, and it feels like a clear focus in the entire fishing industry. Is it the right way to shoot the large shotgun and ban all fishing with trawls? I don't think so. I think absolutely – I want to be clear about this – that one might ask whether we have an effective nature protection in particularly vulnerable places and whether trawling should be allowed there. But to completely ban fishing with trawls, which have an undeservedly bad reputation, is really to get off your toes. If the government implements the policy that the Left Party and the Green Party, and now the Social Democrats two weeks ago, have expressed, shrimp fishing in Sweden will end. Then 100% of shrimp fishing is gone. More than half of the fishing for Norway lobster disappears in the same way. Fishing is a bit like the ecosystem in the sense that you can't just remove some. The removal of an economically beneficial fishery may lead to the loss of supply of fishing for other species, and soon there will be a really negative spiral. This would be regrettable for the archipelago municipalities, for fishermen and for Sweden. I hope that the great government party will come to its senses. But perhaps the last competence in the area of fisheries has left the party. Mrs. Old President! In conclusion, I would like to say that we Moderates want to see continued sustainable fishing in Swedish waters. Then fisheries policy needs to be guided by clarity, long-termism and confidence in the future. Without a vibrant fishing industry, with sport, leisure and professional fishing, Sweden will not achieve its goals of a growing tourism industry and Europe's lowest unemployment. I would therefore like to say that I am proud of the reforms that came about during the time of the alliance government, but at the same time I am convinced that the Alliance was not completed. There is still a need for regulatory simplification, not new charges or Swedish gold-plating. If this is the focus in the future, we can continue to enjoy healthy fish on the plate from profitable fishing in sustainable stocks. This should be the objective of the entire fisheries policy.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1296	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 17. Fishing is an important Swedish industry with old traditions. For this reason, we, the Swedish Democrats, would also like to highlight both the cultural and the economic aspects. The number of fishing enterprises in Sweden is around 1 000, and it is in the food industry that most jobs are generated. The Swedish fish processing industry has a turnover of nearly SEK 7 billion. It is in the nature of things that fishing must be regulated, as happens at European level, but at the same time we must work towards reasonable conditions for individual traders when implementing EU legislation. The regulatory framework must be designed so that Swedish fishermen do not suffer from competitive disadvantages vis-à-vis competitors in other EU countries. It is the Swedish Democrats' ambition that fishing can be conducted from different ports in Sweden. Coastal, more small-scale fishing would benefit from a much more active management of both seals and cormorants, causing considerable economic damage. When it comes to eel fishing, we see that today's holder of eel fishing permit risks becoming the last Swedish eel fish. We want to make it easier for eel fishermen to transfer their businesses and necessary licences to other people or companies, and we want to ease restrictions on eel fishing. Mrs. Old President! It should be possible to conduct both large-scale and small-scale professional fishing in Sweden, although it is ultimately the individual contractor who chooses the type of boat, gear and port to land their catch in. It should be examined whether the number of ports where fish can be landed can be increased, in favour of the local food industry along the Baltic Sea coast. Active fishing with viable fishing entrepreneurs creates living coastal communities along our coasts, creating jobs and lives in the archipelago. As far as bottom trawling is concerned, we believe that it could harm marine ecosystems. We are not seeking a total ban, but trawling should be regulated harder than it is today in several areas, in order to benefit stocks. It may concern the selection of gears and certain geographical areas which should be protected during sensitive periods. Research into which fishing gears satisfy the entrepreneur's needs for efficiency while taking marine ecology into account is ongoing and should continue to be carried out. We see that the dialogue between fishermen and scientists in this area continues to be extremely important. Mrs. Old President! I'm gonna talk to you about fish farming. The exploitation of wild caught fish is naturally limited, but here in Sweden we have fantastic opportunities for fish farming, especially in the northern parts of the country, where nutrient-poor regulation magazines are located. Fish farming in these waters can be a means of restoring viable ecosystems, as fish farming can feed depleted water. Cultivated fish is a resource-efficient protein source and healthy food. Food fish production can have positive regional polar effects and sustainable jobs in rural areas. Further processing provides both direct and indirect jobs. The previous government's investigation from 2009 has highlighted the potential of a growing aquaculture. The Swedish Democrats want to investigate how the costs for traders in the industry can be reduced. Lower costs for traders would increase profitability and contribute to the conditions for a sustainable and economically viable industry. For example, supervisory fees are significantly higher than for other activities that currently require environmental permits. We also want to facilitate the establishment of new fish farms and improve the conditions for existing farms to expand. Support from the Maritime and Fisheries Fund should clearly and effectively improve opportunities for both start-up and growth in existing businesses. Recently, the Land and Environment Court of Appeal delivered judgments in four cases concerning permits for the cultivation of fish in open cages. These judgments concerned permits for fish farming in Omnefjärden and Mjältösundet, both in the municipality of Kramfors, as well as permits for fish farming and winter storage in the municipality of Örnsköldsvik. The Land and Environment Court of Appeal has concluded that the crops are to be decommissioned during a three-year phase-out period. With regard to the fourth judgment, which concerns permits for fish farming in Storsjön in the municipality of Berg, the Court has found that the activity cannot be allowed to the extent that is currently taking place. According to Nordic Trout, the judgments require the company to phase out at least 25 per cent of the Group's production. It is a phase-out that threatens the company's operations in four locations along the coast of Norrland, which involves more than 30 jobs. The question to be asked is how the decision of the Land and Environment Court is in line with the Government's proposal A food strategy for Sweden – more jobs and sustainable growth across the country regarding 7.11 Fisheries and aquaculture. And the question is also what measures the government intends to take to ensure the survival of fish farms and to ensure that they can develop and expand their activities.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1313	Mrs. Old President! I would like to start with the fact that I naturally support all my reservations in this report, but I am content to ask for the approval of Amendment No 18. I do this because I want to give the current government a tip that I think you should take advantage of, namely to develop sustainable fish farming. We have over 200 km of coastline and about 100,000 lakes in our country. Reasonably, this resource should be better used to get the sustainable food on our dining tables. I would therefore like to see clear measures that encourage and develop sustainable fish farming, because it can probably give us a lot, including jobs and a sustainable food for our dining tables. The previous government produced an investigation in this area. When we have agreed on a food strategy that in turn involves increasing Swedish food production, I think we should take advantage of the results of the investigation. The reason I have reserved myself is that the government unfortunately thinks that one only needs to continue planning for this activity, so do not take any further action. I would like to mention this as a tip to the current government in all its good intentions.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1319	Mrs. Old President! During the previous debate, we talked about the importance of protecting forests and land. At least that's what you see with your naked eye. But what happens beneath the sea surface tends to be forgotten. In our seas there are large ecosystems and very complex systems that interact with each other, and they must be protected. A major threat to ecosystems today is large-scale fishing, if it is done incorrectly. In Sweden, we have been quite good at protecting more areas in the Baltic Sea and the North Sea in recent years, and that is good. However, if you look closely at Natura 2000 areas, you can see that in most of them large-scale fishing is still allowed. Even bottom trawling is allowed in about forty – it became the figure when I counted them – of these areas, and that is a bit strange. Then it feels like you're eroding the whole idea of protecting an area. Large-scale fishing is perhaps the most active activity you can imagine in a marine area. Mrs. Old President! I would like to support our Amendment No 12, which states that a ban on bottom trawling should be introduced in Sweden and that we should also be promoting such a ban at European level. Fishing with bottom trawl means that you have a wide, large and heavy yarn that sweeps over the bottom, stirs it up and takes with you a lot of the living environments that are there. Just as Moderates Jesper Skalberg Karlsson said earlier, it is quite clear that this has an environmental impact. That is also why we in Sweden have extended the trawl line as far as possible only under EU legislation. In the area of Öresund where there has been a ban on bottom trawling since the 1930s you can see that there is a whole different life on the bottom. Fish stocks are much more alive there than in other comparable areas. Therefore, a ban on bottom trawling should be introduced. Sometimes it is said that today's trawls are much better than yesterday's, that they can be more selective and so on, and that is a good thing. Sometimes there may be a discussion about whether it is bottom trawls at all. But if the new tools are so refined and better than conventional yarns, I would not call them bottom trawls in the traditional sense. The report also addresses the EU's external fisheries policy and the so-called fisheries partner agreements that the EU has with some fourteen poor countries, preferably African countries. We in the Left Party believe that these agreements are a colonial remnant, that this applies primarily to countries that have previously been Spanish or Portuguese colonies with which agreements have been concluded. These are areas where the colonial powers have previously fished, and they want to be able to continue to do so when European fishing waters are largely depleted. We spend a lot of money on our tax resources to finance the neo-colonial fisheries agreements. We in the Left believe that the only thing to do is to take this money and instead invest it in developing locally sustainable fisheries in these countries: Senegal, Mauritania, São Tomé and Príncipe, Tanzania and so on. These countries have never been offered it, but are always offered new fisheries agreements, in which European fleets are to fish their fish. It is difficult for a poor country, which is perhaps also corrupt and top-down, to say no when you get millions of euros from Brussels. Our reservation in this area is about abolishing these agreements and turning them into development projects for local and sustainable fisheries. Mrs. Old President! I would also like to mention the report that we in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture have produced and which is annexed. It is a review that we in the committee have carried out of the system of transferable fishing rights in pelagic fisheries. Pelagic fishing applies to fish that swim freely in the sea. It is mainly about herring, sprat and mackerel. The system of simply transferring and selling fishing rights to other fishing companies was introduced and clubbed in the Swedish Parliament in 2009. I have chaired the evaluation group which produced this report, which is annexed to the report. I am not going to draw the whole content but will briefly mention some of the conclusions we have reached. We note that the introduction and implementation of this system of transferable rights has worked well and has fulfilled its purpose. This has also meant that the share of pelagic fishing vessels has halved and that the concentration of ownership in pelagic fisheries has increased. Those who are active in herring and mackerel fishing are generally satisfied with the system, but as far as small-scale and coastal fisheries are concerned, we note that there is a relatively widespread criticism. We say that a simple regulatory framework is important. Where you can make rules changes. Of course, however, the purpose of laws and regulations must be maintained. We also say that it may be a good idea to try camera control on the fishing boats to ensure that the landing of the fish is as it was intended to be. Finally, we note that the time for the system of transferable fishing rights expires in 2019. Of course, many in the industry want to know what will happen in the future. We say that, in good time, a parliamentary working party should be set up to continue to review this system in order to be able to take a decision on the future of the system in good time.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1334	Mrs. Old President! I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 7, which deals with the legal framework for professional fishing. This is a report based on a number of requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. Therefore, for natural reasons, the focus is placed on certain subjects that have been retrained. We raise a lot of points that are important to us in the Liberals. It is about global sustainable fishing, the regulatory framework for professional fishing and the use of tools, and perhaps primarily the development of tools that are more environmentally friendly and have good selectivity. It is always a question of balance whether to use a tool or not. When we discuss fisheries and have these kinds of fisheries debates, it tends to be, in general, at least quite often, that we are discussing some kind of prohibition and decommissioning plan for fisheries. But it is very important that we discuss the development of fish stocks and the fishing industry. Just as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson said here before, this is a very extensive nutrition that is important in many places. I'll try to stick to that later and talk about the development of the fishing industry. Mrs. Old President! I start with Swedish professional fishing, with a focus on the regulations for this. The regulatory framework that governs is very much about the EU's common fisheries policy, which we must surely say that there has been a successful reform of. For many years, Sweden has played a very crucial role in the development of that reform, and we can be a little proud of that. After all, however, there is also a national space that we have to deal with. Then we need to deal with it in such a way that we really support fishing that is environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. It goes as a mantra that we want to promote small-scale and coastal fishing, and of course we want to do so, including on the part of the Liberals. But as Jens Holm mentioned, we also have pelagic fishing, and we should not underestimate the importance of Swedish pelagic fishing. Surely there is no doubt that we all think that the fishing that is being carried out should take place within the framework of the scientific assessments that exist. Then there are a number of aids and obvious starting points. One of the starting points of the fishing seminar we had in connection with the report last week is that sustainability and profitability must go hand in hand. That is, of course, important. Then management must be ecosystem-based multi-annual management. The conclusion is that we really need to look at the entire ecosystem and, of course, be able to discuss stocks and fish withdrawals, but also include the importance of seals and cormorants in this kind of discussion. What you should then exactly do you have to come up with. The concept of MSY, maximum sustainable yield, is central. You should not take more fish from the fish populations than is sustainable in the long term. Of course, a certain precautionary principle should also be applied here, and we have had the tradition in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture of having that precautionary principle for years. Another starting point is that we need to develop the good cooperation models with dialogue between fishermen, scientists and authorities that exist in a number of regions and exploit them. It is extremely important that the knowledge that exists creates some kind of common picture of reality, so that you know what problems to solve. Then we must be very clear that professional fishing is an extremely regulated activity. It is very important that we continue to carry out the simplification work. We have succeeded a great deal in agriculture, not least during the time of the alliance government. But when it comes to fishing, one cannot honestly say that it has become simpler rules, but it is probably as complicated as it has always been – or more complicated than ever, perhaps one should say. That could be a threat to the fishing industry as such. Small-scale fishing – if we go back to coastal fishing – has a huge impact on many locations along our coasts. It is, of course, linked to the supply of fish and so on, but it also has an enormous connection to, for example, the tourism industry. Locally produced food is becoming increasingly important in the tourism industry. But for this to remain, there is a critical lower limit. It cannot be as little as fishing, but it must have a certain extent in order to keep the fishing going and serve it. One last important starting point is the discard ban, which is now gradually being introduced. We need to establish an effective and effective discard system that we can really manage. Mrs. Old President! I would like to say something about gear use in general and bottom trawling in particular. Funds were set aside during the time of the alliance government for the development of selective tools. It is very important that this initiative is followed up, so that you see if it has been an effective way and if the money really made a difference. Now, of course, funds from the European Fisheries Fund can also be sought. I agree that there are fishing methods that are so environmentally harmful that they should be banned. There are certain types of bottom trawling that are totally unacceptable. This type of bottom trawling is described in the Left Party movements each year. With regard to bottom trawling, it is important that we take account of biological values and make fishing-free areas where it is particularly sensitive. A good example, which is very exciting, is the fishing-free areas that have been given in the Bratten area off the west coast. This has been achieved within the framework of the common fisheries policy, and it is probably one of the first examples where it has actually happened. Mrs. Old President! As I have pointed out on a number of occasions, I believe that the Left Party has a very simplified and one-way approach to bottom trawling. I think that Jens Holm had a slightly more nuanced view of this today, and that is welcome. I just think that description of one in the reservation about heavy tools that destroys all life at the bottom is not correct. This can be said of certain types of trawls, but that is not true at all, I think, when it comes to much of the Swedish bottom trawling. What Jesper Skalberg Karlsson mentioned about shrimp fishing is an example where they have developed gear. Treading if it should be called bottom trawling or not is quite irrelevant. The important thing is that we have developed a tool that does not actually do so much damage to the bottom. In fact, on the west coast, it is also trawled within the 40 km limit. But there's the requirement to trawl with the rivet, so you don't catch a single fish. In these areas, it has been shown that fish stocks that should reasonably come back, since no fish are caught there, have not really done so. So there are other explanations than trawling. Soon the representative of the Social Democrats will be coming up here in the pulpit. Although it is not the basis for this debate, it will be interesting to hear what the decision on the bottom trawling ban recently taken at the S-Congress means, what is meant by it, and how the reasoning went when it came to the decision. I'll start rounding off, but I'll just say a few words about the follow-up report we've made. It was gratifying when we met the actors at the seminar on the report last week. It felt like it was approved after all, that we had reached conclusions that were true. I would like to point out that the government now has a great responsibility to start work, so that it really knows the conditions after 2019 when it comes to transferable fishing rights in the Arctic fisheries. As Jens Holm said, it should happen in good time. We're talking in 2019, so I think we've almost passed out in good time.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1352	Mrs. Old President! Today we are dealing with the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 2016/17: MJU14. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. The marine environment has been in focus in recent years both nationally and internationally, and it is important that the work started continues and develops. Knowledge of the habitats and species of the sea is much worse than our knowledge of the land environment. We therefore need a continued boost in knowledge and must also act in accordance with the precautionary principle when knowledge is not sufficient. There are a wide range of alarm reports that describe the state of our seas and the challenges facing fisheries management. The issue that may have received the most attention in Sweden is the depletion of cod in the Baltic Sea, but the problems are far greater than that. Today, 90% of the world's fish stocks are overfished or fished to their limits. The World Bank estimates the cost of poorly managed fishing at $50 billion a year. Today, a large part of the world has problems with too large fishing fleets and overfishing, which leads to a disbalancing of marine ecosystems without making fishing profitable. The sea is a great resource, but we are getting more and more people in the world who are going to share the resources. If we are to continue eating fish, we need to learn how to use the seas and lakes in a way that maintains balance and preserves biodiversity. It is simply not possible to fish in any way and in any way, but fishing must take place in a sustainable way in the long term and on the basis of what the stocks can withstand. Mrs. Old President! The objective of the EU Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) is to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture are environmentally sustainable in the long term and managed in a manner consistent with the objectives of economic, social and employment benefits and of contributing to food security. The Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) states that the EU will seek to ensure that fisheries agreements with non-EU countries are of benefit to both the EU and the third countries concerned. The EU shall actively support and contribute to the development of scientific knowledge and advice. According to the Maritime and Water Authority's report on the Common Fisheries Policy, it has been clear that the new requirements of the basic Regulation have been consistently complied with in the context of the negotiating mandates and protocols for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements and protocols discussed in the Council in 2015. The Council Regulation establishing a common system to prevent, justify and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing means, inter alia, that if a third country does not have fisheries management in line with international rules and basic principles, it is possible to prohibit imports from that country. It is important that Sweden continues to be a driving force for the decisions taken within the EU to lead to sustainable management of the fish stock both within the EU and globally. Mrs. Old President! One of the elements for achieving the objectives of sustainable fisheries is fisheries control. In Sweden, the Agency for Marine and Water Management has the overall responsibility for the mainly EU-regulated fisheries control. Fisheries control is managed through annual monitoring plans covering all fisheries control activities. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management is changing its way of working towards a more risk-based approach, which means focusing control on those areas where the risk of non-compliance is most assessed. Mrs. Old President! Sweden is a country with a long coastline, lots of lakes and thousands of miles of rivers, rivers and other watercourses. Historically, fish and shellfish have been an important food and fishing an important industry, and that is still the case. Professional fishing contributes to a vibrant countryside, coast and archipelago. Jobs are being created in both the fisheries and the processing industry. It also provides jobs in industry, workshops, tourism and the tourism industry. It helps to achieve the environmental quality goal of a living coast and archipelago. That is why we must protect the near-coastal, sustainable fishing along our coast.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1363	We also need to think about how we use the raw material. 60% of the fish caught goes to feed. Sweden is one of the countries where most fish are eaten, but despite our long coastline and our many lakes and streams, most of the fish we eat is imported. We need to develop the processing industry to bring up the value of the raw material fish. However, the processing industry depends on continuous local landing of fresh fish. It is therefore important that we support small-scale coastal fishing so that it continues to develop. The Agency has introduced a number of rules to promote small-scale coastal fishing and increased profitability. It concerns inter alia the change of licence holders, the possibility of new establishment and fishing without a catch limit within the limits of the quota allocated. According to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management's annual report, the Agency is also continuously working on regulatory simplification and monitoring of regulatory work. It is also reported that simplification efforts have taken place in the areas of regulations and other legislation, as well as in the areas of treatment and service, interaction with industry and supervision and control. Mrs. Old President! Aquaculture has great opportunities to increase in Sweden. It is probably the food production that is growing fastest globally. It accounts for 50% of all food fish. 80% of the fish we eat in Sweden is imported. Here we can see that there are great opportunities to develop aquaculture. In Sweden fish farming is less common than in our neighbouring countries. We simply have not had that tradition, but it is changing. Sweden, with its long coastline and its many lakes, has good conditions for fishing and aquaculture throughout the country. The Government is investing SEK 35 million in measures in aquaculture within the framework of the Food Strategy. However, there are disadvantages to fish farming at sea. Marine biologists have calculated that 1 000 tonnes of farmed fish correspond to emissions from 10 000 people when feed residues and faeces are not collected and contribute to eutrophication. It also provides oxygen-free bottoms during the cultivation cases. To grow 1, 2 - 1, 3 kilograms of fish, 1 kilogram of food is required, which in most cases consists of fishmeal. But there are alternatives, and here we are at the forefront of Sweden in terms of biological research and technical know-how. Particular attention is paid to limiting environmental impacts and developing sustainable feed sources. The focus for Swedish aquaculture is sustainability that takes into account the environment as well as the economy, innovation and animal health. An exciting development is fish farming on land. Many places in Sweden have started to grow fish on land, many times in abandoned farms. The fish is grown in closed systems and gets a feed that is largely plant-based. This is an industry that is growing, so in the future you may buy locally grown fish from a farmer in your vicinity. To conclude, I would just like to say that it is fortunate that it is the Social Democrats who are to interpret the decisions of the Congress of the Social Democrats, and not other parties in this House. We can remind ourselves that Sweden already has a general bottom trawling ban where Sweden can afford it.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1371	Mrs. Old President! Before the 2014 elections, the Green Party was perhaps the party that pushed the trawl ban the strongest. And it would be strange if this had not been the case, because before the Social Democrats ruled it had its sole justification in pursuing environmental issues. The Left Party, another party on the left, has as an idea right now to take everything that the Green Party once thought and think it a little harder. If the Green Party says 2.2, the Left Party says 2, 4. It is clear that the Left Party is also pushing a hard line towards trawling. Both have perhaps a little nuanced in recent years, as we heard from Jens Holm earlier. But one is a little surprised when the Social Democrats choose to push the big hammer at their congress and contribute to the decommissioning plan for shrimp fishing. Member Marianne Pettersson said earlier that it is the Social Democrats themselves who will interpret their own congress decisions. That is absolutely the case. But the question from me and from Sweden's shrimp fishermen is: Will one make a reality of the party's congress decisions and hook arm with V and MP in this decommissioning plan for shrimp fishing?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1374	Mrs. Old President! Our Congress decision states that we should work for a ban on trawling, and we already have this in the part of the sea where Sweden has its own discretion. It is important that we continue to support small-scale fishing, and here the development of passive gears and alternative gears is extremely important. However, when it comes to fishing in waters where Sweden has regulated fishing through bilateral agreements, the discussion needs to be taken with other countries. It is not up to us to decide unilaterally. In that case, we must negotiate with these countries. A unilateral Swedish fishing ban there is not meaningful and perhaps not even legal.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1377	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Mrs Pettersson! As it sounds to the honourable Member, the Congress decision does not change the way things look today. That is not the interpretation I make, and that is not the interpretation of other alliance representatives. Nor is that the interpretation of former Social Democratic Members of Parliament. This is a matter of change, and that is often why new congressional decisions are taken. They want to bring about a change in Sweden. I still wonder: is this going to mean a transfer of positions for the Social Democrats in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, or is it going to be harrowed in the tracks it has been in before? I think it would be better, because although I do not agree with as much as the Social Democrats think, I still see them as a party that can see target conflicts. This is a conflict of interests. Then I do not think you should stand on the barricade with environmentalists who storm and break into nuclear power stations and other things, but then you have to take some responsibility. Then you have to say: there are two camps, and we want an intermediate route that protects both the environment and economic growth. I would also like to say something about negotiating with other countries. I can only assume that the country to which Marianne Pettersson refers is Denmark. Then I would like to know whether Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is making any attempt to negotiate the agreement with Denmark. In the conversations I've heard on my own, this door seems to be pretty closed. But if it's open, it's welcome.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1380	Mrs. Old President! First of all, I would like to say that the decision has recently been taken and needs to be analysed and looked at. Sweden has long been one of the EU states that has pushed for more sustainable fishing methods. We think that Sweden should continue to do so. It will now be particularly important to further appoint newer and more selective gears. Sweden should also negotiate the introduction of a ban on trawls in the areas approved as Natura 2000 sites.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1383	Mrs. Old President! I do not think Marianne Pettersson is particularly surprised that the issue is being raised after all. Those of us who have participated in the fisheries debate here for many years feel that this is an enormous change of position from the Social Democrats and an unexpected decision. It is clear that, as Marianne Pettersson says, it is not we who should interpret the decision, but it is up to the Social Democrats themselves to do so. I do not know when it is intended to interpret the decision, but, as the rest of us who are sitting side by side, it is actually a decision that is fully in line with the policy pursued by the Left Party, for example. From the Liberal side, we are not in favour of trawling to destroy great natural values. But you still have to know what's going on. If you do not know, you can visit those who develop trawlers. I would say that there has been a fantastic development of trawlers, and that is largely due to the pressure that has been in place to be able to fish in Swedish waters in sensitive areas. Firstly, many areas are avoided, and secondly, where you fish, you have to have tools that are gentle to the environment. In connection with the discussion that has been going on, researchers from, among other things, the sea fishing lab in Lysekil have said that not even at the bottoms that have been fished for a long time – they have looked at the bottoms of Gullmarsfjorden among other things – have seen these injuries that we stand and describe here in the Riksdag. That's gonna be a little weird. But I can give Marianne Pettersson a chance to develop this.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1387	Mrs. Old President! Our decision is about bottom trawling, and that is not the method used when fishing shrimps. In the discussions about bottom trawling at our congress, it was about when you're down plowing on the ocean floor n one and ruining what's there. That has been the big issue, and that is what has led to opposition to this type of trawling. After all, there are other types of trawling also using selective gears that do not damage our bottoms. We don't have a problem with that.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1389	Mrs. Old President! This is what becomes a bit of a problem when we discuss: that we might discuss different things a little bit. Then it's good if we figure out the concepts. Trawl fishing for shrimp is bottom trawling by definition. Then such a bottom trawl cannot be described as the ploughing of the sea, for the boats you have, at least in small-scale fishing, have no possibility of pulling a trawl plowing in the sea. Much of the tool development that has taken place has been about fuel consumption. Then you need to lift up the tools as much as possible and get as little friction as possible. It has been important to develop this for purely economic reasons. In the case of selectivity and the fact that it is much easier if you get a selected and ready-sorted catch, you first select the shrimp catch itself, and even before the ss you have the rivets that sort the fish away. It is therefore a very sophisticated tool. When you send the signal to Bohuslän shrimp fishermen that a party wants to ban bottom trawling, the message is quite clear and they feel threatened with their existence. If it is not a question of banning Swedish shrimp fishing, then the Social Democrats must go out and interpret this so that it becomes clear.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1393	Mrs. Old President! There is great concern about how our seas and bottoms are. That is the reason for this proposal. We'll have to come back and give further answers once we've analyzed this motion.
i-9nK37rCysywTgKL5pcwUWC	Mrs. Old President! I request the approval of reservation 8, which is a KD reservation on regulatory simplification. It has been very interesting to follow the debate on fisheries policy here today. There is a lot of knowledge in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. But getting theoretical knowledge of a matter does not necessarily mean that you always end up right. I am not in this committee, but I have a strong interest in the issue. I can see that there is a great deal of knowledge in the committee, but also a variety of wills, and it takes different forms. My background is that I come from the west coast and Öckerö and have fished with my father and my brothers. Our family has been fishing since the 17th century. There have been great hardships, and storms have been forced. I have many wonderful pictures from when I was fishing with my father, including in the Shetland Islands and around the North Atlantic. I have a couple of reflections after today's debate. The first is about bottom trawling. Several parties say no. Others have a more nuanced view. The Left and the Green Party are strong supporters of a complete ban on bottom trawling. The same applies to the Social Democrats, who decided at their recently concluded congress to say no to bottom trawling. The meaning of the motion that went through at the S-Congress was to ban in Swedish waters but also to promote decisions to ban bottom trawling throughout the EU. With a trawl ban in coastal fishing, you remove, as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson said, 100 percent of shrimp fishing and about 70 percent of all crayfish fishing. Without bottom trawling, there will be no catch of shrimps and small catch of demersal fish such as cod and flatfish along the Swedish coasts. After all, we have a lot of protected areas to deal with the possible risks that fishing may pose. Professional fishing is of course interested in sustainable fishing. They have also been fishing for a hundred years with bottom trawls in about the same places that Lars Tysklind was in, for example in Gullmaren, where you fish in places where the fish thrives. That's why you keep coming back. The fish thrive there, and that fishing works. We make laws in Parliament, and a ban on bottom trawling would mean an end to Swedish fishing. That's it. Mrs. Old President! My second reflection concerns cameras on board. The follow-up group, chaired by Jens Holm of the Left Party, writes in its report: One way could be to start a trial with camera control. It is important that the landing obligation can be ensured and that the Riksdag is informed by the Government of the results of the strengthening of fisheries control. ..................................................... I can understand whether taxi drivers, police officers and security officers may need camera control, not to mention certain public exposed places. But then it's always about security. This isn't. Here, people should be controlled on the basis that they are seen as potential offenders. I do not understand why the follow-up group, which has deep insights into fishing, is in favour of testing camera surveillance. What are you thinking? It would be interesting to hear how this would be designed, where the cameras should sit and what it is that should be controlled. We are proud to talk about integrity in other contexts, but this clearly does not apply to that principle. We are talking about fishermen, who are now responsible entrepreneurs. The VMS system sends signals that allow you to see where the boat is. When the fish is caught, you enter in the logbook what you have got. Then there is a settlement check at the landing of the catch, and a margin of error of 10% is accepted. It can be difficult for a fisherman when it is tough weather to appreciate how much fish you have got. Tell him it's 300 kilos he writes in the log book, and it turns out to be 350 kilos. Then you exceed the margin and get fined. Could not this control, which I think can be defended, be sufficient? Camera monitoring means an inhuman view of a profession. I find the fact that this issue has political backing regrettable. As I said, privacy is important in other contexts, but not right here. Obviously, it is free to violate that integrity here. Mrs. Old President! My third reflection concerns seals and cormorants. I think I'll settle for the seal, given the time. Several speakers have taken note of this. We heard about it at a seminar last week. I think we're quite in agreement. Now I will use figures that may not be on the decimal right: A seal eats 5 to 7 kilos of fish a day. There are reportedly 24 000 seals in the Baltic Sea. Say that number is correct – that each seal eats 7 kilos of fish. Then, 365 days times 24 000 seals consume more than 61 000 tonnes of fish each year. It is a disaster for fishing; everyone understands that. The seals make the fishing of yarns that many would certainly advocate impossible. It will be like a set smorgasbord for the seal, as it was expressed at the seminar. To replace the trawl with the fishing of gillnets is simply sabotaged by the seals. I'm leaving the cormorant, Madam Old President, but before I get to port, I'd like to mention something about the eel. Since 1 May 2007, there has been a general ban on fishing eel for those without a special permit. In order to be authorised to fish eel, one must have had such a permit in the past. Some fresh water in Sweden is exempted from the ban. It is therefore possible for recreational fishermen to fish for eel. As a result of the stricter rules, the number of eel fishers has halved since 2006. Catches have also been halved during the same period. I want to finish where I started. It is gratifying that pelagic fishing works mainly, mainly thanks to transferable fishing rights. I believe that such rights also come in demersal fisheries. It's necessary in the long term. But it must come from below, as it did with pelagic fishing, not from above politicians and authorities. There is a positive development between the Maritime and Water Authority and fishermen. This dialogue, which we have missed in the past, is very positive.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1414	Mrs. Old President! It is good that Roland Utbolt tells us that he himself is a fisherman so that we know where he comes from. As politicians, when we make decisions, we have a responsibility to have a greater perspective than an interest. That is why we are often at a higher level of abstraction and may not go into all the details. As far as bottom trawling is concerned, I would like to ask Roland Utbolt a question. Does Roland Utbolt mean that the ban on bottom trawling that has been in place for a long time in areas such as Öresund does not make a positive difference for biodiversity and reproduction and for fishing itself? I think it is important for the industry itself to protect the stocks, because if you do not, you have nothing left to fish. For example, look at the eel, as Utbolt himself mentioned. With regard to the specific issue of the trials on camera control that we are discussing in the report, I would like to emphasise that we are saying that it should be precisely a trial in the context where it is believed that it can work. The background to this is that we have not known that there are about 10% reported errors v i d the landing checks that have been carried out. We also say that it should not be a general camera surveillance. That is why I use the word camera control – it should be selective against the fish that is landed. As you know, we do not mention more details in the report, but we think that this can be a track that can be tested to ensure that you land correctly.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1420	Mrs. Old President! I heard Jens Holm say in his speech that he does not know what is under the sea. That's right; you don't see much of that. Those who have been fishing for many years, however, know pretty well how the fish moves, how it works and how to handle it in the best way. I'm not gonna apologize for coming from a family that's been fishing since the 17th century. I'd like to say that. My father's two cousins have also worked here in Parliament as spokespersons for the West Coast. Of course, those of us who are Members of Parliament have a greater perspective also with regard to the kingdom as a whole. I'm not so sure that Jens Holm, with all the knowledge he has, can be really sure that it is precisely the ban on bottom trawling that is the reason why there are more fish in the sea, for example in Öresund. I don't think you can really prove that, Jens Holm. But that's a good way to explain it-- maybe a little easy, too. I'd like to ask what it's supposed to be like because I'm told you're going to control camera surveillance. I don't really understand what it's supposed to be like if you're going to check the cameras. What is it you should check – is it not the fishermen and how they handle their fish, how they weigh the fish and how it works? Where are the cameras going to be? What's the plan? Can you explain a little to me who doesn't really understand how this is going to be done?
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1424	Mrs. Old President! This on the ban on trawling in the Baltic Sea, which I believe has existed since some time in the 1930s, is contained in a research report that we mention in our report. I think it was the Marine Environment Institute that developed it. After all, more fish than fish know what it looks like under the sea. These are researchers, for example, and many researchers note that bottom trawling, at least in its conventional sense, has a very negative impact on the biodiversity of seabed species. That is also why, Roland Utbolt, Sweden has decided to extend a bottom trawling association as far out as the EU allows. A question there for the Christian Democrats: Is that a bad decision? Is this a decision that the Christian Democrats want to tear up? If you do not think so, then you will admit that it is important to take action against bottom trawling. As I said, we do not mention the details in the report, but of course the cameras should be on the boats. That's the whole idea. That the whole boats need to be filmed, I do not think anyone is thinking, but it is selective against what is landing. At least that's what we've been discussing.
i-0a2e44a73839b312-1428	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Jens Holm! When you say that you have this big perspective, you still say that you are largely based on research. What has happened recently is that the Maritime and Water Authority has opened the doors to fishermen so that they have come in and have been given their knowledge. In the past, they have relied on research. When the Minister and I debated here, I asked him what he relied on in that case. Was it just research, or was it also a dialogue with professional fishing? The answer I got then was that it is the research that applies. There's been a lot going on. They have also invited good politicians, who sit and talk about this. There has actually happened more, I think, and I think Jens Holm should do a little more than just listen to the research. Please listen to the fishermen! Maybe you have the impression that it's a little small. There are not many; it is perhaps 1 000 companies. But listen to them! They know what's happening both on and below the surface. I can't really let go of this camera thing and how to monitor it. We are talking about privacy and personal integrity in other contexts, but this obviously does not apply to professional fishing. The camera should somehow be placed on the boat. It will, of course, monitor how these people act. I think it's deeply offensive. It is also incredibly sad that so many politicians have supported this intention.
