i-de7c66142a166790-5	Madam President, I would like Heydari Heydari has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that the Västra Götaland region complies with established laws and rules to ensure patient safety in emergency care. Initially, I would like to emphasise that it is the county councils' responsibility to ensure patient safety in health care. The ultimate responsibility lies with the political leadership of the county councils. However, the Government has taken several measures to improve the county councils' ability to offer good and safe healthcare. The Government has, among other things, increased the general state grant by billions for the county councils from 2017. In addition, the Government has initiated several initiatives to strengthen the county councils' work with the long-term supply of skills. Competent employees and a well-functioning supply of skills are important prerequisites for safe and safe care. The Government has, among other things, entered into an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council for a special professional billion that addresses the challenges of skills provision. The government and SKL have also recently decided on a second agreement that extends over two years. One innovation compared to last year is that 300 million are earmarked for county councils to offer increased opportunities for nurses to undergo specialist training. In addition, the Government has previously carried out an extension of training places in nursing, midwifery and specialist nursing training and provided funds to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare for the validation of foreign health education. We know that many patients are treated in hospitals unnecessarily. Patients who are ready to be discharged from hospital will be left waiting for outpatient care and municipal interventions. This affects the conditions of emergency care and creates a shortage of care places. The Government has announced that it will return to the Riksdag during the spring with a proposal that can improve the situation for patients and release care places in inpatient care. The inspection of health care has an important role to play in verifying that county councils comply with the laws and regulations applicable to health care. In order to strengthen the conditions for the inspection to carry out supervisory efforts in those areas where the need for supervision is greatest, the Government has proposed in the 2017 budget proposal that IVO's administrative grant should increase by SEK 70 million from 2017. In addition, it is proposed that IVO be provided with temporary funds of SEK 40 million in 2017, SEK 25 million in 2018 and SEK 10 million in 2019 for efforts due to the refugee situation.
i-de7c66142a166790-10	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The Government begins its response by saying that it is the county council's responsibility to ensure patient safety in healthcare. The ultimate responsibility lies with the political leadership of the county councils. I would like to begin by recounting what the moderate chairman of the Västra Götaland region, Johnny Magnusson, said when he answered the GP's question about my interpellation: that is the stupidest thing I have heard in a long time. The regional board is not responsible for patient safety, it is the hospitals and doctors. It's clear in the law, he said. How do you interpret this? Madam President, I would like In recent weeks there has been a lot of news about the emergency department at Sahlgrenska Hospital in Gothenburg. I have read stories from healthcare professionals as well as patients who describe the work environment as unsustainable and patient safety as threatened. A number of trade union safety representatives say that the health care professionals feel bad and that the work environment is under all criticism. Everywhere is reported about overcrowded health departments, cancelled operations and staff shortages. I myself have experienced long waiting times and witnessed the staff's heavy workload at SU's emergency department. I can really confirm and understand the concerns of the Gothenburgers about the health care and the emergency chaos that prevails there. The list is long. The emergency department will live up to its name. You should not have to wait 16 hours or two days to see a doctor. There are currently financial resources, but they are not used properly by the moderate management in the Västra Götaland region. Managing and managing health care obligations, and health care should protect everyone. This is a prerequisite for the Swedish model. Regardless of the geographical location, residents should be able to trust that they receive the care they need. That's the only way we can create equal health care and spread faith in the future.
i-de7c66142a166790-16	Madam President, I would like Medical care is under great pressure, and I share the view that the situation must be reversed. But to state and insinuate, as Heydari Heydari, that the situation is the fault of green blue collaboration is a powerful thing. For 14 years, until the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats held power in the Västra Götaland region. The negative trend has existed all along. Seven years ago, in 2010, the chief doctors were assigned to deal with the problems. Five years ago, all hospitals produced action plans. But the negative trend has continued. For two years now the green blue collaboration has been working to get to grips with the problems as the first focus. One of the problems is the economic deficits. In 2011, the deficit was SEK 500 million – almost half a billion. That's how it's kept going. Green-blue collaboration has overcome one of the problems – something that the Social Democrats have failed to do for 14 years. This year it is expected that there will be a surplus in the economy of hospitals. In addition, it has been possible to double the contributions to the economy of hospitals in the Gothenburg region. The second problem, Madam President, is the staff situation. The Västra Götaland region, like other public employers, faces major challenges. It is important that we increase our attractiveness, and the green blue collaboration has made great efforts. These include paid specialist training. Madam President, I would like However, the main problem is not the hospitals, but the main problem is the municipalities. They are the reason why, in advanced hospital inpatient places, people are being treated who are ready to discharge. It is people who have illnesses that prevent them from coming home alone and need to go to short - term lats or nursing homes or get home help. It is the duty of the municipalities to help these people. At Sahlgrenska University Hospital there are currently at least 200 people who are ready and need to come home but who the municipalities do not take care of. The biggest villain in this situation is the municipality of Gothenburg, not the regional chairman Magnusson. It is the Social Democrats in the municipality of Gothenburg who do not do their job.
i-de7c66142a166790-24	Madam President, I would like This issue concerns both the state and the region – the region in the Gothenburg area in this case. I think that Mr Wikström has presented many good measures, both things that have already been implemented and things that are going on and can change the situation. It is ultimately a matter of life or death for patients who, for example, are waiting in the emergency room, and it is therefore important that you do everything you can. A huge problem is the lack of staff in the right area of competence. Specialist nurses are really in short supply. There will now be more training places and also an opportunity to retrain as a specialist nurse. But there is also a need for more midwives and more nurses, and there will also be more training places. Validation is also important so that those who have this competence from their home country can get out and work as quickly as possible. It is good for them, it is good for the whole of society and not least it is good for health care. So we need to speed up these processes. In the case of patients who have completed treatment, it is a problem across the country that beds are taken up by patients who have completed treatment, who could actually be taken care of in the municipalities. The Minister for Health also announces initiatives in this area. But there is also a great responsibility in the region, because it is the region that collects taxes and which ultimately has responsibility for the health care business. It is clear that surpluses are good in a way, but it is important to deal with deficits in other areas. Within county councils, or regions as it is also called, healthcare is an extremely central area to manage. In most places it is considered to be the most important area. When you see these problems, you realize that it is important that the surplus of some 1.6 billion also comes to health care. Ultimately, it is about patient safety and the working environment of the staff. It is therefore a question of controlling resources there, because you cannot sit quietly and watch as desperation grows. Shadiye shared testimony from people who also the media have written about; it's about that it doesn't feel like a safe situation. The fact that waiting time can last up to 16 hours when you have a suspected heart condition is alarming. The staff are also entering the wall. We have a huge problem with sick leave starting to grow in numbers, not least when it comes to mental illness. There we can see that stress-related diseases are at their peak. Now that we have a lack of expertise in health care, it is particularly important that we keep the staff there so that people are not burned out. Instead, we need to get more in, but then the working environment must also be better – it costs in resources. Of course, we also need training, as has been mentioned. However, we must both plug existing skills gaps and invest financial resources in this. I think that the Minister for Health has announced several welcome initiatives that can help the Gothenburg area, but also the whole country. It is ultimately a responsibility for the region. Now that there are resources at the cash register, it is important that they benefit from healthcare so that progress can be reversed as quickly as possible in a positive direction.
i-de7c66142a166790-33	Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor when I heard Moderate Cecilia Magnusson say that the moderate-controlled region had reversed developments. It is true that they raised the tax so that the money would benefit the patients. At least that's what was said. But the strange thing is that they put the money on high and now they have it centrally, in the regional board's cash register, instead of giving it to emergency hospitals. That is where the region is now going with 1.6 billion in surplus. I find it most remarkable that the money is not used for what it is intended, namely health care, and that people receive the care they need. We'll hear about the chief physicians who are worried and have to anesthetize patients in one hospital and send them to another because it's so overloaded in the emergency hospitals. I have also heard that the management of the Västra Götaland region, i.e. the moderate management, now blames the municipalities. In the post here earlier we also heard that it is the municipalities' fault. Either it's the government's fault or it's the municipalities' fault. Never is it their own responsibility to ensure the best management of the region. I am very pleased that we now have a Social Democratic-led government that invests in quality in welfare and ensures that the extra and general state subsidies are increased in order to improve quality. That's good, because health care needs more money. Although we have had world-class healthcare in the past, there are always things that we need to do more and better. In addition, there is the problem of the lack of specialist nurses, among other things. The former Social Democratic leadership of the Västra Götaland region invested in specialist nurses and their training. Now the Social Democratic-led government has also made an extra investment of SEK 300 million. It is very welcome and good, because it can be ensured that patients really benefit. We can hire more nurses and make sure that people get the care they need when they need it. Thank you very much for that!
i-de7c66142a166790-38	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank Heydari Heydari for raising this very urgent issue. I was in Gothenburg yesterday in connection with a conference on donations. Of course, I received many questions about the general health care situation in the Västra Götaland region because there is a great deal of concern, not least about what is happening in the emergency rooms. I think it is very important that these concerns are taken seriously, not only by regional politicians but also by those of us who are politicians and responsible at national level. I have announced, from my first day as Minister for Health, that I believe that the state and the government need to take greater responsibility and play a greater role in meeting the challenges of health care – not in order for us to take over responsibility from county councils and regions, but in cooperation with the regional and many times local level, we should be able to take responsibility for the provision of skills, the development of eHealth work, a better functioning organisation and not least the major change that must be made and which is about being able to put patients with the greatest needs at the centre. This is the major task of healthcare in the future, and it is also with this as a background that I become somewhat concerned about the situation both here in Stockholm County Council and in the Västra Götaland region. Instead of having a full focus on the transition that needs to take place within Swedish health care and instead of solving the skills supply problems that exist, bourgeois governance in both these county councils devotes far too much time to discussions about new privatisations and various types of ideological experiments in the form of new healthcare choices. In Stockholm, where the Alliance has been in charge for more than ten years, we have now got a conclusion on what is happening. The cost increase is explosive, the coordination of care for individual patients is very poor and bottlenecks – not least in the emergency wards – occur in the form of queues and accessibility problems. The risk is that this will also happen in other county councils and regions that follow the same pattern, i.e. where instead of prioritising what is important and right – skills provision, better organisation and collaboration – privatizations and ideological experimental workshops are prioritised. That makes me very worried. I had two questions in the previous speeches. Cecilia Magnusson asked just what we can do to ensure that the municipalities take greater responsibility. It's never even the fault of two people. When it comes to the problems of bringing medically treated patients back to the municipalities, the municipalities have a major responsibility. But there is also a great responsibility of county councils and regions when it comes to announcing in time that the patient is about to come home. The government will therefore, during the spring, present a proposal that there should be much higher demands on municipalities, but also on county councils and regions, to agree, to establish procedures for medically treated patients to be able to come to their municipality of residence. It is not reasonable to stay in the hospital and take up an expensive and advanced care place when you could instead get much better care and care at a lower price in your municipality of residence. It is a clear initiative of this government.
i-de7c66142a166790-47	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. Then I would like to say to Cecilia: why can we not stand up and say that it is not always our fault? You always say that it is the Social Democrats' fault that everything is going the wrong way, right? Now you have the responsibility in the region. Stand up! Make sure we get more nurses, that the money is spent on health professionals and patients rather than on top of any account. I am surprised to hear you say that the negative developments are due to the Social Democrats because the Social Democrats have caused you trouble. You're in charge! I've been a patient myself. Last year I sat in Sahlgrenska and waited 16 hours to see a heart doctor. The staff told me that they could not help me on time because of a lack of a doctor and a shortage of nurses. So it is not about anything else. You should not suddenly place responsibility on the municipalities. Medical care and the moderate-controlled region are responsible for ensuring that there are more nurses and doctors in place. Last weekend, I went back to the hospital. I don't know if it was kidney stones I had. But I went in with an ambulance because of my abdominal pain. That time I had to wait about six hours, because I came in with an ambulance. I got the same answer there: we have a lack of doctors. If something should happen between them, doctors must run to the others. So you're gonna have to lie here and wait. But you're still saying it's the fault of the municipality and the Social Democrats, Cecilia. I'm getting upset. Now you'll have to assume your responsibilities. Now you have the money. Make sure that they are used instead of blaming the municipality, that they do not take care of the finished ones so that they do not get home on time. That's not the whole truth. I am very happy for the answer we have received from the Government. We have made investments in quality, in more training places for nurses and in skills increases. That is what it takes, not to blame someone else and get away from responsibility.
i-de7c66142a166790-55	Madam President, I would like I have to say, I didn't start it. It was Heydari Heydari who began by questioning the green blue collaboration in the Västra Götaland region when she put this interpellation to the Government. The fact that she's getting answers is obvious, isn't it? It is in fact the case, the Government, that there are very clear agreements on what applies when people are treated in emergency care. The municipality has five days to bring home its citizens. Then you have to start paying. At Sahlgrenska University Hospital there are currently 40 people that the municipalities pay for. Municipalities do not pay the full cost of these people. But it's a penalty. In the case of the 200 finished persons, it is the responsibility of the municipalities that leads to the rat on the rope and so on. The medical system can't handle it. Be glad that we now have a surplus in the Västra Götaland region. Now we can make bets. And if you read what proposals the green blue collaboration has put forward, you can see that many efforts have been made to patch up after 14 years of mismanagement of the economy to the detriment of patients. Nevertheless, I must thank the Government for its answer. That was clear. But please develop a little more what the bill will contain. There are clear rules as to what applies. What else can we do?
i-de7c66142a166790-60	Madam President, I would like It would be a good thing if all the different political levels were able to do everything they can instead of engaging in pie-throwing. Then we'd get a long way too. The state is now doing a lot, just as the minister reports. We will ensure that there is a shared responsibility between the municipalities and the regions. Problems are often best solved by everyone working together. But if you keep blaming yourself, you won't get anywhere. After all, there is a great responsibility on the part of the regions. You don't come from that. Many of the most important tools are available at regional level. Then those tools must also be used. It is important that tax money is used in the best possible way. The first step is, of course, to use the resources you have for the most important. And it's hard to find something more important than making sure that emergency care works. Resources must definitely be deployed there, as quickly as possible. As Mr Wikström mentions, privatization must also be cautious. There is a risk that tax money will run out and that it will not be used to the full for what it is intended to do, that is, health care for the citizens. There is also a risk that care as needed will not become self-evident. Unfortunately, we have been able to see in the experiments that it can be the most profitable for the private interests that take precedence and not the individual's needs, which are of course the most important in healthcare. The discussion about completed patients is also about waiting for the emergency room to get to the right health department. This is largely about a shortage of care places, which in turn is largely due to a shortage of staff with the right skills. That part is therefore also crucial. If everyone does what they can, I think it can go in the right direction.
i-de7c66142a166790-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for investing so well in health care now, Gabriel Wikström! It really is needed after the bourgeois era, when only great tax cuts were invested in instead of quality in welfare. It is therefore very much to be welcomed. I'd like to turn the clock back a little bit. We were told here by the Moderate that there had been 14 years of Social Democratic rule in the Västra Götaland region. We can turn back the clock further. I and several of us are from the Västra Götaland region, and we know what it was like in 1997 when the region was formed for good reasons. The old county councils needed to be helped together, to pool their forces and to support each other because of the negative population development in some places. Unfortunately, as a social democrat, I would like to say that it was the bourgeoisie that took over in 1997. But it didn't last very long. It lasted for about two years because the moderate-controlled region ruled so mildly that the Center and then People's Party chose to drop out. You didn't want to see all the cuts. They did not want to see the deficits just increasing and increasing, but chose to cooperate with the Social Democrats. It was a very successful collaboration for many years. You could lift the whole of Västra Götaland. When it became bourgeois rule in this country almost ten years ago, the county councils of the whole country suffered because there were major tax cuts. They did not want to invest in quality in health care. The region of Västra Götaland suffered as well. I regret that it is now a moderate-led region. One blames either the government or the municipalities. You don't want to take your own responsibility. Yet they have a surplus of 1.6 billion.
i-de7c66142a166790-71	Madam President, I would like I shall begin with the question of the bill presented by the government in the spring. It is about tightening up the time limits that exist today for when medically treated patients are ready to discharge and are to be transferred to their municipality of residence to get the aftercare and rehabilitation to which they are entitled. This involves, among other things, that within 24 hours from the time a patient is enrolled in inpatient care, the municipality of residence must have informed the municipality of residence that the patient is enrolled so that the municipality can already then prepare a place for the patient. The proposal also tightens the deadlines. Today, the deadline is five working days. Instead, let's talk about three days, whether it's public holidays or not. We think it is a responsibility that we should be able to place more clearly on the municipalities. In the best scenario, municipalities and county councils should be able to conclude agreements that are best suited to regional and local conditions. However, when this is not the case, the boundaries and regulations of the law enter into force, which makes it much clearer than the current system. In addition to the fact that this is better for patients, a place of care in inpatient care costs many times more than a place of care within a municipality. Then it is clear that it should be beneficial for county councils, municipalities and, above all, for taxpayers as a whole, to ensure that those who are medically treated are transferred to the municipality of residence. On the issue of resources in general, I can only agree with several of the speakers in the debate when they say that it is self-evident – given the major challenges we face in the area of health – that we cannot afford to give priority to health care efforts and instead impose new tax cuts as the bourgeois parties want to do at national level. Greater responsibility must be taken at local and regional level to finance welfare services. It will sometimes mean tax increases. Once you raise the tax, it is important that the money you receive goes to welfare, to school, to care and, not least, to health care. Then people are prepared to pay the extra tax increase. However, if, for example, the money does not go to improved care, there is a risk of a revolt in which citizens say that they do not want to pay new tax increases because the money does not come to health care. Once you raise the tax, it is important that the money comes to health care. The government has implemented several tax increases, and we are often accused, not least by the Moderates in this House, for this very reason. But we have always been clear that we believe that we need to raise more money to the treasury, not least in order to improve welfare. Thanks to several of the tax increases that the government has implemented, we have also had the opportunity to recently allocate 10 extra billion to municipalities and county councils to strengthen welfare. In my own field, we have been able to distribute an extra billion to improve skills provision. We have been able to contribute money to study wages for those who choose to train as specialist nurses. And we have been able to make a range of equality-enhancing efforts, ranging from free mammography and better women's health to free medicines for children and more. It would not have been possible if we had continued with the tax-merger policy of the previous government.
i-de7c66142a166790-82	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Patient safety and health and safety at work are very important to me. That's why I asked the Minister what he can do to see what the moderate Västra Götaland Management intends to do. You will have SEK 1.6 billion in your account. That money will go to medical care, more nurses and more doctors. We're not saving anything. I think it is a problem that Johnny Magnusson, who is the chairman of the board of the moderate-led management of the Västra Götaland region, rumbles and says that the discussion around SU is preposterous and that the situation is not as serious as people seem to think. Magnusson recently told SVT West that the load goes in waves as it has always done. He feels confident that the inhabitants will receive adequate care when they need it. It is an opinion that neither I nor the health care provider share. Of course, there will be a shortage of staff and long care queues when the money is saved instead of getting patients and staff to benefit. It is still problematic when senior management ignores the situation and does not take it seriously. A prerequisite for developing the Swedish model is that you can offer an equal health care. If we can offer equal health care, we can also create faith in the future. Finally, I would like to put the same question to the Government again. Now there's $1.6 billion in the account. How can we ensure that emergency medical care works?
i-de7c66142a166790-87	Madam President, I would like I believe, as I said, that it is very important that if we are to solve the problems and challenges that we have in Swedish healthcare, this must be done in much closer collaboration between the national, regional and local levels. This means that the government needs to take greater responsibility for health care. Among other things, we do this by providing additional resources to health care in the form of both permanent increases in state subsidies and various types of targeted interventions in a number of areas of concern. We do so in close dialogue with the parties, where we together can identify risks and opportunities and who will do what. This is what we sometimes do in the field of eHealth. We do this by taking greater responsibility for the supply of skills, including by expanding the training places for specialist nurses, nurses, midwives, doctors and more. We also do this by providing resources to better manage the supply of skills. Just as the interpellier is concerned, this presupposes that when the state assumes increased responsibility, the regions and county councils must also assume their responsibility for planning and organising the operations in such a way that patients receive care on time. It is quite unreasonable to have to wait 16 hours in an emergency room. It also means ensuring that you have funding for your activities that allows you to hire doctors, nurses and other professions. One must be able to keep the business open and rolling in such a way that patients do not get caught. This means that the tax increases proposed and implemented will also benefit the health care sector. It is absolutely crucial not only to meet the needs of health care but also to maintain citizens' confidence and willingness to pay their taxes. I take a very serious view of a situation where you are not doing your utmost to strengthen health care.
i-de7c66142a166790-95	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahl has asked me if I and the government are going to take any action or take any initiative to ensure that the same dental care fees apply to Swedish pensioners as to those who are illegally staying in the country. In March 2011, the then government submitted a bill to the Riksdag, Health Care to persons residing in Sweden without a permit (prop. 2012/13:109). A starting point was the objective of a sustainable and humane migration policy. The bill proposed extending the right to subsidised health care including dental care for certain groups who then lacked access to subsidised health care. In the discussion of the bill in the Riksdag, all parties, except the Swedish Democrats, voted in favour of the bill. On 1 July 2013, the Act that governs the county councils' obligation to offer persons residing in Sweden without permission health care including dental care. The Act obliges county councils to offer adults residing in the country without permission the same subsidised health care as adult asylum seekers. It is important to stress that this applies to care that cannot be tolerated, i.e. the treatment of illnesses and injuries that could have serious consequences for the patient if treatment was not given. Other types of treatment are not covered by this law. The Government may, with the support of this Act, make regulations on health care fees and fees for medicines. The law is also in line with the conventions that Sweden has ratified on human rights. Within the framework of the state dental support, dental patients in Sweden account for about two thirds of the dental costs. In other words, the contribution is higher than in other healthcare. I am aware that many pensioners find it difficult to meet their dental costs. In the 2017 budget bill, the government therefore announced a special initiative for the elderly. Since this particular group often has a greater dental need, a higher level of support for regular dental contact is justified. Therefore, on 1 July 2017, the general dental care allowance will be increased from the age of 65. In this way, the group of 65-74-year-olds receives the same level of general dental care allowance as the group 75 years of age or older. Some elderly and disabled people who have a great and long-term need for personal care in their daily lives can also receive special help in the area of dental care. This means being able to be examined where you live and get some necessary dental treatment at the same fee as medical care. The fee may be added to other health care charges and is thus included in the high cost protection of healthcare. The government has also made other efforts for pensioners to improve their financial situation. Among other things, the government has reduced taxes and increased the housing allowance for the most vulnerable pensioners. The government's long-term goal is to close the avoidable health gaps within a generation. As far as dental health is concerned, we know that there are differences between different socio-economic groups, in terms of both preventive care and treatment. Dental care is a priority area for the Government, and as announced to the Riksdag, the Government intends to return during the parliamentary year with a proposal on the state dental care allowance.
i-de7c66142a166790-103	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats often speak loudly about solidarity and about the importance of protecting poor pensioners and other low income groups. The opposite is true, however, when the practical policy of the Social Democrats prevails, as is clear on this issue, for example. Here the poor income groups are disadvantaged in favour of those who reside illegally in our country. Behind the fine words of the Social Democrats and Gabriel Wikström, everything is usually a completely different reality from the one they are trying to paint. Today's welfare state is increasingly being eroded. This is just one of many questions that makes me very angry. We Swedish democrats are often told, Madam President, that we are young and angry. Fortunately, I still feel young, but unfortunately I feel as angry as the day I chose to get involved politically. Those most affected by the failure of the welfare state are those to whom I and the Minister for Health should have eternal gratitude. These are pensioners with poor conditions which the irresponsible policymakers consistently disadvantage in favouring groups such as illegal immigrants – groups who have never been involved with a single hand in bringing this country forward. In your naive and universal graces, you give individuals who reside here illegally better conditions for, for example, dental care than our own elders have—the older ones who have been involved in building the country. This is shameful, Madam President. As long as these injustices persist, I intend to remain angry. And I'm proud that I'm angry about this. On the other hand, those who are satisfied with today's situation should be ashamed of themselves. I am proud to belong to the only party that actually takes these issues seriously and wants to benefit pensioners seriously, particularly poor pensioners. The Minister for Health says in his introductory speech that it will take about a generation to close the health gaps. So it will have to take a whole generation for our poor pensioners to have something similar to the favourable conditions that illegal immigrants are receiving today. I wonder how it can be so easy to give immigrants so if is here illegal care for 50 SEK but not give it to our own poor pensioners. For me, such a priority does not go together. Does the Minister for Health not think that this is an enormous hypocrisy of such a party as the Social Democrats have been, but perhaps no longer are? It is fascinating to see how the Social Democrats have gone from being a state-supporting responsible party that protected Sweden and the Swedes primarily to becoming the party they are today – a corrupt party made up of careerists running globalists' affairs. I think it's very strange and boring. The Swedish Democrats have a much better policy in this area than the government has. I would ask you, in my next speech, to come back a little more in detail and detail about what it looks like.
i-de7c66142a166790-111	Madam President, I would like I am not going to respond to all the statements made by Jeff Ahl in his speech or in his interpellation. Nor will I attach great importance to the sweeping formulations and labels that Jeff Ahl is trying to paste on me and the Social Democratic Party. What I intend to do is try to answer the basic question he is asking, which I think is very important. I would like to thank the honourable Member for bringing this up in the Swedish Parliament. As I said in my introduction, the dental issue is very close to the heart of this government. What we are debating today is that there is a difference between different groups or, perhaps above all, that so many people have to pay so much money for basic dental care. This is a great injustice, and it is strange in a country that has had a largely non-contributory health service for so long. The Social Democratic Government, which was set up until 2006, made choices to improve the dental system by significantly reducing costs and by ensuring that more people could afford not only to go to the dentist regularly but also that, if you have major problems, you would not have to pay for this yourself with hard-earned money. This would be taken from the tax system such as other health services. Unfortunately, the Social Democratic Government did not continue to have confidence in 2006. It became a bourgeois government, which admittedly introduced a kind of dental reform, but it far from covering the needs. Instead, major tax cuts in the multibillionaire class were given priority over the introduction of a dental system worthy of the name. We now have this situation to deal with. I am proud that as Minister of Health, I have had to take steps towards a fairer dental system, both by raising the limit for when young people have free dental care, in the long term up to the age of 23, and because we have been able to increasingly subsidise dental care for the elderly. This is not enough; we must do more. If I can paint a dream and vision that I would like to realize in the near future, it is that dental care would not be more expensive than other healthcare and that everyone could really afford it. This is also the aim pursued by the Social Democratic Party. But while we are doing this, Jeff Ahls's other questions and arguments naturally come up. You point out a group of people and say they shouldn't have subsidised dental care. The levels of what to pay as an individual and how much society should subsidise can always be discussed. But I know – and Jeff Ahl should also know – that those whom he claims to protect, those whom he says built up this country, those who founded our welfare system, had an overshadowing thought, namely that those who have the greatest need for welfare services should also take part in the welfare society. This means that you do not let the person who has such serious dental health problems that he risks his life be left without care, but that person should of course receive care. That is what the policy of also undocumented people receiving subsidised dental care and health care is really about.
i-de7c66142a166790-117	Madam President, I would like Mr Wikström mentions the importance of this issue. Then I ask myself: if it is so extremely important, why does not one do something about it? There are, of course, opportunities to do something about this, which I will come to then when I line up the proposals we have and explain the policies we are pursuing. We are pursuing a Sweden-friendly policy for our Swedish people, not for the entire world's people, and certainly not for those who stay here illegally. I'm going to pay some credit to the Minister for Health – that's what you should do, I think – because he treats me relatively well and also acknowledges the problem. At least that is a step in the right direction. I share the view of the Minister for Health that Reinfeldt's government was a disaster for the welfare state – incidentally for the whole country, in my opinion. Unfortunately, however, this government has been nothing but a disaster either, so the shift of power has not really solved any problems. As far as the objective is concerned, we share our view. I also think that dental care should be part of the general system. But we have an approach that brings us closer to the goal considerably faster than the Social Democrats. Then there is the question of human rights versus civil rights. That is really what this is all about. The Social Democrats have become a de facto party that believes that human rights can be above civil rights. If the whole world is going to be able to come here, live here illegally and get this profit, we will soon have no money left in the treasury. Politics is actually about putting groups against groups. But we would rather put the Swedes first than the rest of the world. This is because resources are limited. What do we in the Swedish Democrats want to do? Among other things, we want to increase the guarantee pension for the poorest pensioners by as much as 10%. That is much more than this government has done or can do, because it has a different policy. Today, this would amount to SEK 795 a month for an unmarried guarantee pensioner, which the poor pensioners most often are. It is a substantial increase in their income. At the same time, unlike the government, we want to give twice as much in dental care. If these two measures are combined, it is quite quickly understood that the dignity of our elderly and, in particular, the poor pensioners will be much better with our policies than with the petty policies of the Social Democrats. As I said, we share the idea of the goal, but the difference between you and me and between your party and my party is that we want to do something about this, while you mostly use your rhetoric to try to achieve the goal. Furthermore, we will not deny emergency care, nor illegal. It is a fundamental moral issue. Of course they should have emergency care. But they're not supposed to be in this country. They're going home because they're here illegally. It's a natural consequence. In addition, they pay the care to the fullest extent, is the idea. I think the Social Democrats are quite afraid now that they know that there is a party that has better welfare policy than they have themselves. It seems to me a little bit, at Gabriel Wikström, that he partially admits it when he problematizes this much more than many other members of the Party of Social Democrats.
i-de7c66142a166790-125	Madam President, I would like I am not afraid of the Swedish Democrats at all. I know that there are many in our country who are afraid of the Swedish Democrats for very good reasons. But I am not afraid of the Swedish Democrats or their chances of conducting their politics in Parliament. When we arrive at the election movement and the election day, I think it will be quite clear that the welfare rhetoric adopted by the Swedish Democrats and the proposals they say will improve welfare are rather hollow and that they will not only threaten the foundation of the welfare state but will also lead in the opposite direction to what they say they want to go in. It is because the foundation of the Swedish welfare state is universalism. This means that all people should have access to basic welfare services based on their needs. This has a long tradition in Sweden. I know that it is a common discussion within the Swedish Democrats to distinguish between civil rights and human rights. For me, civil rights are human rights. I find it very difficult to see in front of me a situation in which health professionals in practice have to deny severely ill people care that cannot stand because these people do not have the ability to pay for it at the moment. Well, medical care doesn't. It is contrary to ethical principles. It should also be foreign to Jeff Ahl and the Swedish Democrats to try to force Swedish health professionals to do this. Then what has this government done? Step by step we are improving the situation, not least for pensioners and not least for health and care services. We do this in general by adding more staff to care for the elderly. We do so by adding increased resources to health care, so that the many times multisick elderly can be better cared for. And we do that by improving dental support, not least for the elderly. Is this enough? Are we happy? Absolutely not! There are still great needs, and there are still major challenges that we have to face. But the question you have to ask yourself – if you do not have a money machine, such as Jeff Ahl and the Swedish Democrats, so that you can conjure fantasy sums out of thin air – is: With what policy will you achieve the goal of more people getting increased subsidies from dental care and more people getting better health care? Is it a policy of large tax cuts that goes mainly to high-income earners, or is it a policy where we use our tax resources to improve welfare? Is it a policy of group against group, or is it a policy where groups can be made to work together to achieve common goals? That is the question that Jeff Ahl and the Swedish Democrats must ask themselves. I cannot help noticing that Jeff Ahl labels the Reinfeldt government as a total disaster for the welfare state. I believe that this is an opinion shared by very many of the core voters of the Swedish Democrats. Then I have to ask myself: why are the Swedish Democrats so keen to support a new moderate-led government at all costs if it is described as a disaster for the welfare state? In what way will welfare be improved by a moderate tax-merger government?
i-de7c66142a166790-130	Madam President, I would like I will quickly answer a few questions. You are borrowing to save this welfare in view of the irresponsible policy you are pursuing. You don't have to stand around and talk about how we have a hole in our politics. We are the only party that wants to add money to welfare – real money. Madam President, I would like At one time the Social Democratic Party was led by leaders and forerunners. Per Albin Hansson was one of them. I will quote from a speech by Per Albin Hansson which inspires many of us social conservative nationalists. He said: For the concern for the general, the land and its inhabitants, has always been the characteristic of a good patriot. The fact that this care must now more than before take the form of social reform work does not change anything in its original character is only an adaptation after our time. Fosterland love is a powerful force. It must be made fruitful precisely in our great work for a social order based on righteousness. That, Madam President, was said in a past era, when the Social Democracy put on the leadership shirt to build a strong and solidarity-based people's home together with the Swedish people on the unifying foundation of nationalism. Our main responsibility as Swedish politicians is, in accordance with Per Albin Hansson's words, to protect our own people in the first place. I choose to end the interpellation debate by asking Gabriel Wikström how he believes it is justified that people who are illegally in Sweden get better conditions in dental care than our own older people. Is it righteous to allow old people who have worked hard to build up the country to receive this treatment, worse conditions, as a thank you? Is it righteous to let older people sit alone and sometimes weep because they have to choose between basic dental care and basic necessities to live a dignified life? It's not dignity, Gabriel Wikström, it's shameful. You and your government are contributing to that. That's why you should be ashamed of it, too.
i-de7c66142a166790-137	Madam President, I would like I will not go into and respond to all the labels that Jeff Ahl is trying to paste on both me and the Social Democratic Party. The issue we are discussing is very important. It is about how we can protect the basic welfare and security of people who lack financial resources and who need the protection and assistance of the welfare state in different ways. I am very upset that we have a situation where many older people do not feel that they can afford to pay for dental services and to go to the dentist. It's a big problem. But the solution to this is not to shock-raise the charges for acutely ill asylum seekers or undocumented asylum seekers. It would be obscene and trampling on human dignity. But it is also, which should interest the Swedish Democrats if they have an interest in getting plus and minus to go together, not very much money. That money in itself would not cover up to provide better support for older poor pensioners. Instead, efforts must be focused on improving the situation of those with small economic margins. You should be able to go to the dentist and be able to get the care that you deserve. That is where we have to put the tools of politics in place and not in trampling on those who are already having a difficult time in society. Rather, it is about being able to raise the groups that need the support and efforts of society. If the Swedish Democrats were seriously interested in this very thing, it is also about this that the debate should act.
i-de7c66142a166790-142	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me if I and the regeri ngen intend to reject P ostlagsutgängen's proposal for reduced postal access to rural areas. In its interim report (SOU 2016:27) the 2015 postal law investigation proposes to replace the requirement for overnight transport with a requirement for promotion over a maximum of two working days, i.e. two-day transport. So you should accept that sometimes it takes a little longer than a day for a letter to arrive. The final report (SOU 2016:54) proposes, among other things, that the scope of the social mission should be clarified in the parts concerning exemptions from the five-day distribution and where delivery of postal items should take place. Nowhere, however, is proposed a reduced mail line specifically for sparsely populated areas, as Lotta Finstorp suggests. Digitalisation of society means, among other things, that we have changed our communication patterns, resulting in decreasing letter volumes and increased demand for fast broadband. That's pretty much the case all over the world. The postal market is a changing market and it affects everyone who uses postal services but also the companies operating on the market. Postnord AB is no exception. Postnord AB's subsidiary Postnord Group AB is appointed by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) to provide the universal postal service throughout Sweden. This means that Postnord is responsible for an efficient postal service throughout the country. The State requires Postnord to be both responsible for the universal postal service and to carry out profitable activities. The universal service provider must have a reasonable opportunity to carry out the task. Today, Postnord is the only company that can provide the universal postal service. Since it is the government's intention to ensure that there will continue to be a high-quality postal service throughout the country, which is cost-effective and meets the needs of households and businesses as much as possible, we see that postal legislation needs to be changed. It also needs to be clear to all those who use postal services and operate in the postal market what rules apply. Therefore, the Government plans, among other things, to submit a proposal for amendments to the Postal Act. I hope to be able to deliver it to Parliament this spring.
i-de7c66142a166790-146	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Knowing that the mail arrives at the right recipient and at the right time is a basic security for all of us. Being able to deliver to their customers safely and safely, as well as being able to rely on the delivery of mail, is of paramount importance to the operator. One of the reasons I have written the interpellation is an upset Facebook discussion in my municipality of Flen. It testifies to mail that does not arrive, letters som m arrive at the neighbor instead, etcetera. The heading of the interpellation is Deteriorated postal distribution in rural areas. But it could just as well have been a deteriorating postal distribution throughout the country. I am very concerned about what is happening. The minister's taking up the investigation called To the Last Outpost. It has also led to greater concern in the country. Among other things, there are proposals for some deterioration. This applies, among other things, to overnight transport, which the Minister mentions, and to the abolition of the five-day distribution. Denmark abolished the requirement for overnight transport in July 2016. Yet the poor economy of Postnord in Denmark has continued. The introduction of quality degradation through the abolition of overnight transport and the abolition of five-day distribution is an attempt to appreciate the figures for Denmark's operations. The impact on Swedish rural areas and Swedish entrepreneurship will be huge if it is implemented. The bill hasn't arrived yet. But we will ensure that it focuses on the entire population and entrepreneurs in Sweden. What I want to focus on today is the problems here and now. In autumn 2016, postal problems accelerated. Now it is not a day without addressees telling us about invitations to doctors who do not arrive, invoices that are not paid in time because they have not arrived and companies that have major problems in relation to customer and delivery. The Swedish people are deeply dissatisfied with the postal distribution. This is evidence of Aftonbladet Inizio's investigation, where half of Swedes lack confidence in the company, and an avalanche of complaints has reached both Postnord and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. Never have so many complaints about Postnord been received by PTS as in 2016. They write that themselves. The number of complaints received by PTS has tripled compared to the previous year. Delayed, broken and lost letters appear to be a daily occurrence according to complaints. Sometimes people get to drive miles to pick up their mail. It is bad from an environmental point of view but also for people's everyday lives. This has been because Postnord has refused to distribute it, but also because of how Postnord pulls the mail into areas considered to have too narrow mail entries. Postnord's own statistics also show that the number of complaints has increased in recent months. Today we can hear from SVT's news that PTS has made supervisory visits during the autumn at eight of Postnord's distribution offices around the country. The shortcomings persist despite attempts to remedy them. The machine sorting is also flawed. In Sundsvall, some recipients receive errors every day due to missorting. In Kungälv there have been cases where all mail on a mail carrier round has disappeared, and in Gävle the mail must sometimes be re-sorted manually. What is worrying is that neither Postnord nor PTS believe that there will be an improvement in terms of quality problems. There are many questions I would like to ask the Minister about this today. What's going on? Why has quality deteriorated radically recently? How does the Minister intend to remedy the shortcomings so that the citizens regain confidence in the post office? What is the social responsibility of the post office?
i-de7c66142a166790-157	Madam President, I would like Interpellation provides an excellent opportunity to discuss the problem at operational level. It is about how Postnord works in relation to agreements and contracts and how PTS manages the assignment. Of course, all responsibility falls to the knees of the Government. On PTS's website you can read about PTS's objectives. It can then be noted that the objectives are long-term consumer benefit, long-term sustainable competition, efficient use of resources and secure communication. On all points, I believe in this case that PTS fails to meet the targets. You can read on Postnord's website. That's two words: we deliver. It's a mockery, Minister. Postnord continues: We ensure postal services to individuals and companies in Sweden and Denmark. The Government referred to the universal postal service. We can see how it is on the ground. I would be happy to join my colleague. In my constituency, Jönköping, I have not only encountered protests via Facebook and so on. In real life, entrepreneurs do not get their ordered goods. Information about doctor's appointments is coming up too late. Invoices don't come on time. This may result in the person who owes money not having time to pay in time and thus risk getting negative points at the Enlightenment Centre. That is one of the very serious consequences. I will not mention everything that has happened to both citizens and businesses. The reason for my intervention is that the interpellation involves all these pieces. I would like to hear how the Government intends to deal with the situation – concretely. What demands should the Government make so that things begin to work? Both PTS and Postnord state that they are there to meet a number of goals. Those objectives are not being met. So my assessment is that a contract is broken. It must, of course, have consequences. Then I would like to ask: in what way does the Government intend to act? It is not a question of sitting passively and waiting for something to happen. What initiatives will be taken to point out the inadequacy of this? It is also a matter of taking the necessary measures to restore confidence in Postnord and also PTS.
i-de7c66142a166790-163	Madam President, I would like I will say thank you first of all to my colleague, Lotta Finstorp, who has awakened this important interpellation. As is clear, it is not just about Sörmland or about Jönköping. I think this is about large parts of Sweden. I assume, of course, that the Government is personally aware of the growing concern that actually exists in large parts of the country, not least outside the big cities, with regard to the deteriorating postal services. For us legislators in the Swedish Parliament it is extremely important that people should be able to live, work and realize their dreams no matter where in Sweden they live. Rural areas, and not least the green sectors, are growing. This requires reasonable conditions and good conditions for entrepreneurship. This presupposes that people throughout Sweden are able to live on equal terms. This requires having a public service that works and is reasonably equated. Today, rural entrepreneurs and residents find it increasingly difficult to access community services. We are now addressing this in connection with postal services, but unfortunately, in the case of the majority of public services, individuals are affected. When postal delivery is delayed, lost or damaged, it can cause major problems, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, which also ensure that there are jobs far beyond the big cities. Does the government really want – we in the Swedish Parliament want – to see an enterprise in Sweden that is growing, even in rural areas? That requires a functioning postal system. I would like to say that the reorganisation and change of Postnord has led to a failure to comply with the law, the Postal Act, decided by the Swedish Parliament. The government is accountable to the Swedish parliament and will of course ensure that the legislation that exists works in its entirety. The postal law is clear. It is provided that each working day and at least five days a week, except in circumstances or geographical circumstances which the supervisory authority considers to be grounds for exemption, shall be made at least one delivery of postal items. Today, Gullspång, Töreboda and Tidaholm are examples of municipalities in Skaraborg where entrepreneurs do not receive mail five days a week. It affects their ability to be entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. It affects jobs in rural areas. It should be a concern for the government when this is not fully working. I feel for these companies. I feel for the crowds that are affected. I have to say that it is pitiful not to ensure that you live up to the postal law, as it is written, in the absolute best way. My first question to Minister Eriksson is therefore: What measures does the Government intend to take immediately to comply with the postal law as a whole – all over the country and all the working days of the week? It is not good enough for the Government to come back and say: Yes, but I intend to change the postal law; it does not mean much to me. Current legislation applies. I would like to hear what action the Government intends to take on this. The second important thing is that the government has a responsibility to ensure compliance with the law throughout Sweden. Does the Government and the Government think that the Postal Act is important for the whole of Sweden? I would also like to hear an evaluation from the government as regards the postal law as a whole. Does the Government and the Government think that the whole of Sweden should live to the full?
i-de7c66142a166790-172	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Lotta Finstorp and others in the interpellation debate that I am very happy about the interpellation. I think it's a very important interpellation. I think that the situation we have and especially have had in 2016– we are now in January 2017– when it comes to the post office is completely unacceptable. It is a development that is quite dramatic. PTS shows that the number of complaints against Postnord and other stakeholders has increased by 197 per cent in 2016. It's a dramatic deterioration. Definitely so, and we cannot accept that it should continue. The Postal Act is in force and must be followed by the operators on the market. The central operator is Postnord, which also has the universal mandate to carry out a functioning postal service throughout the country. Now, I would just like to say briefly that I am formally responsible for the postal legislation itself. Under this responsibility is also the supervisory organisation PTS, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. The state-owned companies, on the other hand, are formally under Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg, and he has started work in addition to what PTS has in relation to supervision. There has been an increase in supervision in this area and there are now clear demands. In the report quoted by Finstorp, which came just recently, PTS says that they are not yet able to say whether Postnord will be able to do this. So they do not have this message today. There are still very big problems, and one of the biggest problems concerns manning, especially in cities, which is linked to the fact that this is a demanding profession. For example, not everyone is able to run in stairs when they start to get up in the years. This, in turn, means that there has been a very high turnover on postmen and that it is difficult to cope with staffing issues. These are some of the tasks and problems that Postnord has and that we as legislators and governments need to look at as we now think about how to deal with this in the future. Minister of Industry Mikael Damberg has clearly said that Postnord will have six months to correct this. He said that last autumn, in October, so in the spring it must be resolved. Another problem, which I will come back to, is the merger of Postnord and the Danish postal system, which has seriously damaged Swedish postal operations, causing billions of losses and causing major problems.
i-de7c66142a166790-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an important debate. The poor postal delivery is really something that is talked about wherever you come in Sweden, in different contexts. Above all, there is great concern among rural entrepreneurs. The Minister is aware of the problems, and that is a positive thing. It's just a matter of not waiting too long to fix them. The Minister also addresses the problem of staffing, and it is very worrying how badly the postmen and those working at Postnord are doing. It is not just the customers who are angry and worried about delayed and lost mail; the postal workers testify to an unsustainable working situation. They're just too few. This is shown in the annual survey on employee satisfaction published recently by Svenska Dagbladet. Staff is stressed and under pressure, leading to inaccuracies and poor quality. There is often a lack of substitutes, so it is extremely vulnerable if someone is ill. That's when it gets wrong, because there's going to be substitutes that don't have enough training on how to handle the mail geographically. Manning is something that stands out as the big problem. Postnord also finds it difficult to keep staff. Locally, the company has several times been forced to cancel tours due to understaffing. I have read about this in various newspapers from all over the country. PTS also says that adequate staffing in the event of unforeseen events is a major problem, and it is unclear whether the measures are sufficient. I'm sure there's a key there: that it's simply too few people who work there. Last spring, less than 90 percent of all A-letters were sent on time. This figure is usually 94 - 95%. In addition, 1 450 complaints have been lodged with the Agency so far this year, compared with 570 complaints during the same period last year, i.e. only one third compared to the first month of the year. According to PTS, the deterioration in quality is due to the fact that the volume of letters has decreased, and that is the case. We go into digitalization, and more and more send emails instead of letters. However, more and more people are ordering goods and services via the Internet to be delivered, so it is not possible to phase out the postal service. The question is whether it can ever be done. I have studied the subject, and I find it strange that staff have been cut down because fewer letters are sent and because you see that broadband will be available all over the country. The LRF recently wrote in its report that only 20% of rural households and businesses have high-speed broadband, and we cannot therefore phase out the mail before everything is in place. Letters will always be sent in paper form, which is why it is completely wrong to screw down a community mission that people and companies have a great need for. It has to be stopped! The fact that fewer letters are sent is one of the parts that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency points out, but it is not possible to reduce the way Postnord has done. I have many examples of senders in the local press, and these have certainly also been seen by the Minister. It is really about the whole country, especially the countryside, but I heard that Huddinge too has great problems getting the right mail. One person opened the neighbor's tax return form recently – it is assumed that the mail has come to the right place.
i-de7c66142a166790-190	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government shares the seriousness of the situation, and we therefore share the description of the problem. At the same time, I find it a bit difficult to explain both to myself and to others that we are doing so much to explain the problems that Postnord has in its own organization and that cause daily damage to both individuals and companies. Daily hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars are lost in value, not to mention medical times and life - related matters. So we cannot wait. Our job, as I see it, is not to exercise leadership for Postnord. They have to take care of their own organization. It's just like that. We must not wait for investigations. We must not wait, but simply point out to the company that they should comply with the law. Otherwise, we'll have consequences. All this in order for companies and individuals in the country to receive the service to which they are entitled. So we can't wait, Minister. I think it is very important that we act here and now and, in principle, show, a little freely translated, where the cabinet should be. Finally, I would like to thank my colleague, Lotta Finstorp, who initiated this interpellation, which is very important, and also Cecilia Widegren, who showed some of what is going on in the country.
i-de7c66142a166790-194	Madam President, I would like The Government says that the Postal Act applies and must be complied with. It will be a statement that obliges the Swedish Parliament. It is clear that we assume that the legislation is in force and that it is complied with. That's the government's mission. Part of the great work is located just on Minister Peter Eriksson. Complaints have continued to flow. It is an increase that the Government itself and the Government itself describe as enormous. The government mentions 197 percent. It's a huge rate of increase. We agree on the problem picture. It's good in itself. Then the next step is to act. However, I was worried when I heard the Minister in his reply to my colleague Lotta Finstorp mention that he will return to Parliament with a proposal for a changed postal law. I am absolutely convinced that entrepreneurs in Gullspång and Töreboda and individuals in Tidaholm and Falköping are listening to the debate. They're angry and worried. They don't want the public service to be written down without correcting it. What ambition do the government and the responsible government have with postal deliveries? Is it the intention for the whole of Sweden to live and for postal deliveries to continue in the way that legislation now reflects? What does the Government want me to reconnect with the respective entrepreneurs and individuals who are concerned? It's sometimes a lottery if you get mail or not. That's not good enough. That's not how all of Sweden should grow, and that's not how we get more small and medium-sized companies. This is not how you get access to information about your doctor's appointment or other things that you are personally dependent on knowing.
i-de7c66142a166790-199	Madam President, I would like I would like to come back to the basic problem itself. There are two world changes that make the situation of Postnord significantly changed. This applies, among other things, to digitalisation, which Lotta Finstorp mentions. It has radically changed the conditions for all old postal activities in Europe and also in the rest of the world. When letters decrease in number, as they do in many countries, also in Sweden, by 5, 10 or 15 percent a year, this is a fundamental change. A company such as Postnord, which has a requirement to have a functioning and efficient operation throughout the country, must make major organisational changes. The second big question is that the previous government entered into an agreement with the Post Office in Denmark, and it was a disastrous decision – at least if you want to protect the Swedish postal business and if you want the company to comply with the conditions and rules that the Riksdag and the Government set up. This means that the company has billion-dollar deficits to deal with. So far, we have not had to deal with this with state aid measures, but this may not be excluded in the future. Let's see how it develops. But the decision during the last parliamentary term was not good if you want to protect good postal management in Sweden. Everyone has to admit that it was. Digitisation means that the post office has made major organisational changes. This has not always been done in a good way, and it has not been possible to make the changes required by development. The reduction in the volume of letters in Sweden has not been as rapid as in Denmark, but this is partly due to political decisions. We have not pushed digitalisation from the state as hard as in Denmark. Especially after the merger, the Danish State implemented strong measures which dramatically reduced the volume of letters. In a few years, the total volume of letters has fallen by over 80 percent. It makes a difference. Then there is also a positive factor in the development and possibility of a functioning postal service. It's the growing package business. It is likely to continue to grow. Basically, there is something to build a future business on here. There is no reason to aim to close down the business. I fully agree with that. It is important to have a good business, but it is also important to have legislation that is in line with time. Perhaps it is not reasonable to have exactly the same rules in a future business with fewer letters and more packages than it has been. If it is to be a good and effective operation, we must also change the legislation. That is why the government will be presenting a proposal on this in the near future.
i-de7c66142a166790-205	Madam President, I would like It feels a little strange that the Government blames Minister Damberg and the previous government. It's here and now we have to find a solution. It is in 2016 that the major deterioration has occurred. Trust can quickly be broken down, but it is difficult to regain confidence. I've been thinking about what to say to Flens residents when they get in touch on Facebook and to everyone else who's upset about what's going on. They wonder what the Minister has said and how the problem should be addressed. Predictiveness is important for us humans to have confidence in various social functions. If you know that the mail comes only every other day, you can probably focus on it as a private person. Then you know. However, businesses in rural areas in particular must have postal delivery every day and be able to deliver their packages. As the Minister says, parcel deliveries will become more common because we shop online. Of course, Postnord will have to adapt its capacity to the reduction in the number of consignments that will take place, but it will have to work in the meantime. It may take ten years before we end up where Postnord thinks they are today. I read a good letter the other day in the local press in Sörmland – Eskilstuna-Kuriren. The writer described Postnord's permission with conditions to perform a universal service. The writer said that on Postnord's website it says that if you live in the countryside you can leave letters directly to the postman. The writer has tried to send a letter to the postman but has been told that those directives no longer exist. It is not possible to hand over a consignment for the country lettering to handle. In that case, however, such information should not remain on the website. People think they can do that. In addition, it is environmentally friendly service, the Minister, that the country mail carrier brings back consignments. Thank you for an important debate. I hope to see action as soon as possible.
i-de7c66142a166790-210	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for an important debate. The changes we are seeing now, the result of the merger between Posten in Denmark and Posten in Sweden, have effects that cannot be avoided or not pretended. They will have an impact on future activities and the Riksdag. Digitalisation will also bring about major changes. Nor can we ignore it. We should not pretend to the citizens of Flen or Kalix that everything will continue exactly as before. It won't be like that. It will require changes, and it will probably require changes throughout Sweden. It is mainly about organisational changes within Postnord, tougher demands from the state to cope with the tasks and what the legislation says. It certainly means tough business for the management within Postnord. We are approaching a situation in which all the parties in Parliament must be able to give an answer on how we are going to deal with the questions in the future. My clear picture and my answer to Lotta Finstorp is that we now need to see how reality changes. When there are quite large revenue reductions for Postnord, what does that mean for the business? How are we going to review the legislation from the perspective of a decreasing number of letters in the future? Both of those things will have meaning and impact.
