i-6e53488323257538-25	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in paragraph 3 of the report. There is broad agreement in this House to strengthen the protection of personal privacy, as the current legislation is far from sufficient. It is now proposed to improve legislation aimed precisely at strengthening the protection of individuals against breaches of privacy. A strengthening of the law must, however, take place only after weighing the benefits of strengthening one against another partly opposed but very important interest, namely freedom of expression. The entry of the Swedish democrats is that freedom of expression can only be restricted if there are very good democratic reasons for this very thing. This may be particularly offensive material that depicts, for example, abuse or slander. Precise slander and its relative harassment and threats are something we must intervene against. That is why we agree in this House. What we do not agree on, Madam President, is who the legislation should actually apply. In the bill that we are going to debate today, the government wants to introduce a new criminal law provision on illegal infringements of privacy. The bill requires that the dissemination of data is considered criminal only when, for example, privacy-sensitive images or films are distributed to more than a few people. However, the Swedish Democrats believe that even limited dissemination can cause great harm to the individual, and if the only purpose of the dissemination is to violate anyone, in our opinion this should also be punishable. Madam President, I would like The media are said to be the third state power and are therefore also protected by our constitutions. In practice, this means, among other things, that the media are subject to greater freedom of expression than others. For example, the media are not currently covered by the rules on harassment. Nor are they proposed to be covered by the rules on illegal infringements of privacy. When a person today considers himself or herself to have been the victim of slander or other improper treatment of the media, it is in practice very difficult to obtain redress. The Chancellor of Justice is the authority under the Government that oversees, among other things, authorities. JK regulates damages claims against the state and is a prosecutor in press and freedom of expression cases. A person who considers that he has been slandered may therefore turn to JK for help. Despite the fact that there are bodies with the aim of trying to guarantee good journalism, however, confidence in Swedish media is far from as high as it might be. The lack of trust is likely to be attributed to what these bodies are set to counter, namely poor journalism and a direct unwillingness on the part of several media players to write objectively and objectively. Instead, there are more and more examples of media acting as agenda-setting and inappropriate and conducting biased journalism. Our view is therefore that the government should investigate how a better balance can be achieved between the constitutional rights of the media and the rights of those who are subject to media scrutiny to avoid abusive and unfair treatment. The study should come back with concrete proposals that will greatly simplify those who wish to have their case examined without any risk of financial damage to it. It must also be ensured that those who are supposed to review the media do so completely unpolitically. It is also crucial that these bodies enjoy both integrity and a high level of public confidence. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would like to point out that when we wrote this follow-up motion, we also argued that it would be easier to hold the media to account and get redress. We also had a proposal aimed at making the authorities more open to the media. Unfortunately, these claims did not fall within the scope of the legislative proposal we are discussing here today, so it will be dealt with at a later date. Finally, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats believe that the media should have real and far-reaching opportunities to carry out their audit mission, but also that this mission must be carried out using honest and fair methods. In a democracy such as Sweden, the importance of media scrutiny cannot be stressed enough. Equally important and central to a democracy is that people have the right to privacy without undue violations. Therefore, the Swedish democrats would have liked this right to be much clearer and stronger than it is today.
i-6e53488323257538-39	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion for a resolution to be rejected. The committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Freedom of the Press Act as a suspension. The committee also proposes that the examination of the Government's proposal for a law amending Chapter 4 be carried out. Section 5 and Chapter 5. Section 3 of the Criminal Code regarding illegal threats and insults is postponed to the Parliamentary Session 2018/19. The committee also proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's other proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code, in particular on electronic notice boards, the Act amending the Publicity and Confidentiality Act and the Act amending the Criminal Damages Act. What does this mean? The legal changes to the Criminal Code include the introduction of a new class-based offence – illegal invasion of privacy – into the Criminal Code, the clarification and modernisation of the penal provisions on unlawful threats, harassment and insult, and a change in the circumstances to be taken into account in the assessment of the seriousness of a defamation offence. In the case of illegal threats and harassment, the legislative changes also involve certain extensions of the criminal area. The basic amendments involve a linguistic and substantive adaptation of the criminal descriptions in the Crime Catalogue of the Freedom of the Press Regulation to the amendments proposed in the penal provisions on illegal threats and insults in the Criminal Code because these acts are punishable also as a crime of freedom of expression and press. The decision to change the constitution is made by two equal decisions. The first decision adopts the draft Constitution as a suspension. The second decision may not be made earlier than that after the first decision there have been elections to the Riksdag in the whole kingdom and the newly elected Parliament has gathered. The amendments to the Freedom of the Press Act and the Criminal Code relating to illegal threats and insults are therefore proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019. Otherwise, the amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Madam President, I would like Clearly, we are living in a new age. Children, young people and adults who are being bullied do not escape this once they come home. Through today's technology, this will also accompany them home. Too few people know where the limit is, and it is easier to sit behind a screen and hide than to stand in front of the same person and say things out loud. The hashtag # metoo has spread across all our news channels. This shows how the personal integrity of women in particular is violated time and again. Thousands of ordinary women and hundreds of women in the acting and theatre industry have gone out with their experiences. So did MPs and ministers. Only here in the days have we seen another hashtag: # with which dish. Here are thousands of female lawyers who talk about abuse, ruling techniques and threats. However, this is nothing new. These problems are everywhere, in all social classes and in all professions, and have certainly always existed. But what is new is that more people dare to break the culture of silence that surrounds the vulnerable. Because you're not alone. There's been more. With regard to the criminal law protection of personal privacy, the government has fundamental provisions which have a bearing on the public's responsibility to protect privacy and privacy. While the constitutional protection of the individual's personal integrity applies in relation to the general system of criminal law, the system of criminal law provides protection against restrictions of privacy between individuals. Of the greatest interest in the criminal protection of individuals' personal integrity – in cases other than attacks on physical or sexual integrity – are the provisions of Chapter 4. The penal code. This is particularly true of crimes against someone's peace, such as illegal threats and harassment. Common to these is that they aim to protect against violations of purely personal interests which are not of an economic nature. There have also been a number of investigations into personal integrity, which is about time. This is only a small part of these. Madam President, I would like It is about time that we, as legislators, made these changes to the laws and the constitutions, because that is really needed.
i-6e53488323257538-50	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support the committee's proposal for a decision. When you end up on the list of speakers, a great deal has already been said. However, what has not been said is that it was the Alliance Government that decided on 28 May 2014 to mandate a special investigator to undertake a broad review of the criminal law protection of individuals' personal privacy, in particular in relation to threats and other violations. The investigation took the name of the investigation into a modern and strong criminal law protection for personal privacy and in February 2016 submitted the report Privacy and Criminal Protection (SOU 2016:7) to the government. We are debating this and the committee's report and proposal 2016/ 17:222 A strong protection of privacy in criminal matters. What, then, is personal integrity? There is no uniform definition of the concept of privacy. One definition, however, is the right to have one's personal personality and inner realm respected and not to be subjected to offensive treatment. The committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Freedom of the Press Act as a suspension. Veronica Lindholm mentioned in a commendable way that this is a constitutional amendment that requires two decisions. The committee proposes that the examination of the Government's proposal for a law amending Chapter 4 be carried out. Section 5 and Chapter 5. Section 3 of the Criminal Code regarding illegal threats and insults is postponed to the Parliamentary Session 2018/19. The committee also proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's other draft Act amending the Criminal Code, the Act amending the Act on Responsibility for Electronic Bulletin Boards, the Act amending the Act on Publicity and Confidentiality and the Act amending the Criminal Damages Act. Madam President, I would like The legislative changes to the Criminal Code mainly involve the introduction of a new criminal offence – illegal violation of privacy. Illegal violation of privacy means that someone infringes someone's privacy by, for example, spreading a picture of someone's sexual life or health. The new offence is to be divided into two degrees: unlawful breach of privacy and gross breach of privacy. The penal provisions on illegal threats, harassment and insults are also clarified and modernised. In the case of illegal threats and harassment, the changes in the law mean that certain extensions to the area of criminality are made. Criminal liability for unlawful threats shall apply to a person who threatens another person with a criminal offence in a manner that is likely to cause serious fear of personal or other security to a person, property, freedom or peace. Criminal responsibility for harassment shall apply to any person who physically molests another person or exposes another person to disturbing contacts or other ruthless conduct, if the act is liable to violate the victim's peace in a tangible manner. Punishment of insults shall be the responsibility of the person who accuses, derogatory or humiliating behaviour against someone else if the act is liable to violate the other person's self-esteem or dignity. Madam President, I would like In addition, it is proposed to change the circumstances to be taken into account in the assessment of the seriousness of a defamation offence. It shall be taken into account, in particular, whether the act was likely to cause serious harm in view of the content of the information, the manner or extent of the dissemination. Madam President, I would like The basic amendments involve a linguistic and substantive adaptation of the criminal descriptions in the Crime Catalogue of the Freedom of the Press Regulation to the amendments proposed in the penal provisions on illegal threats and insults in the Criminal Code because these acts are punishable also as a crime of freedom of expression and press. According to the committee, the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code regarding illegal threats and insults are related to the proposed constitutional amendments that they should be dealt with only when the Parliament finally adopts the draft constitutional amendments. Madam President, I would like The amendments also extend the obligation for the provider of an electronic notice board, also known as the BBS, to remove certain notices which are clearly those referred to in the provisions on unlawful threats and infringement of privacy from the service. The amendments also extend the right to criminal damages compensation for violation by gross defamation and introduce the confidentiality of courts in cases of unlawful breach of privacy. The amendments to the Freedom of the Press Act and the Criminal Code relating to illegal threats and insults are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2019. Otherwise, the amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2018.
i-6e53488323257538-56	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU13, a strong criminal law protection for personal privacy. It is one of many reports that provides legislation for modern dissemination of information. Technology and the development of new platforms have given us many new and better opportunities to communicate. However, as we get more of our information via the Internet and through the media that is without the responsible publisher, a number of problems have arisen. We have seen an increase in the spread of threats and hatred, sexual harassment and the dissemination of images of people in vulnerable situations – so much so that people have testified that they stop speaking publicly and pursue issues and that in other ways they withdraw. Today's proposal, supported by the majority of the KU, is therefore extremely welcome, and I call for the committee's proposal to be approved. The major change in the bill and in the report, as has been the case by many others, is the introduction of a completely new and graduated criminal offence in the criminal code: unlawful infringement of privacy. Where we are now punishing trespassing on the privacy of others if the dissemination of images and other objects is likely to cause serious harm to the person to whom the image or task relates. This may involve, for example, the spread of revenge porn, naked images, autopsy images or images of accident victims and other offensive information. The penalty for a common crime of this kind can be fined or jailed for up to two years, and for gross breach of privacy, the penalty can be between six months and up to four years. In addition, it is proposed that the offence of illegal threats should also apply to threats to someone's privacy, for example by spreading sex films or naked images. The provision on harassment should more clearly apply to harassments via the Internet than at present. The rule of defamation is clarified, and insulting crimes should also apply to the protection of people's self-esteem and dignity. The criminal liability of the provider of a service for sending and accessing other people's images and messages, for example via social media, is extended to remove or prevent the further dissemination of messages that clearly contain illegal threats or breach of privacy. The right to compensation for crime is extended to include the type of violation by gross defamation. More modern legislation protects privacy better. Criminal law supports punishing the worst of the victims. The debates of the various platforms can be improved, and I also hope that this legislation can have a regulatory impact on how we behave against each other behind those anonymous screens. As it is today, we see that many are silenced for fear of being hanged and molested or having private information spread about themselves. It is in itself a danger to an open debate and to freedom of expression. Let me also say that the government is doing other things in parallel. I would like to point out, for example, that last summer the government decided on an action plan for the defence of the free word. With the action plan, the government starts a more systematic work to reduce the vulnerability to threats and hatred in the public discussion. In total, the Government will invest SEK 35 million in 2017 – 2020. The Action Plan aims to reduce vulnerability to threats and hatreds, such as journalists, elected representatives and artists, but also provides a strengthened basic support that should be accessible to everyone. The idea is, for example, that Victim Support Finland will receive funds and that the Victims' Agency will be given the task of producing educational and information material. So to the Swedish Democrats' proposal that – yes, I don't really know what to say – deal with the press, it sounds like. I feel that the press today has a self-remediation system that works relatively well. That is a good way to ensure a stand-alone position for the press, which I think is important that it should continue to have. That is why I am calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be rejected.
i-Wqs5Pn7XKfq7dv5AW2ps7n	Madam President, I would like In this matter, the Constitutional Committee proposes that the Riksdag decide to adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Freedom of the Press Act as a suspension and that a new decision be taken after next year's elections, i.e. in the form we decide on amendments to our constitutions. The Constitutional Committee also proposes, in accordance with the Government's proposal, amendments to the Criminal Code which include the introduction of a new criminal offence, illegal violation of privacy. This means clarifying and modernising the criminal provisions on illegal threats, harassment and insults. These are legislative measures that are necessary for us to protect both freedom of expression and opinion and the privacy and privacy of the digital society in which we live. Madam President, I would like I call on the Center Party to approve the Constitutional Committee's proposal for a strong protection of personal privacy in criminal matters.
i-6e53488323257538-66	Madam President, I would like Several speakers before me have gone through the legislation in a good way, so I did not intend to go through purely technicalities, when we make decisions and so on. I will instead talk about the content. This legislation is very welcome. We must be able to bring to justice those who threaten, hate and spread privacy-sensitive material online. It's important. Unfortunately, the appeals and testimony of recent weeks about sexual abuse and harassment worldwide show that there is abuse and harassment of women everywhere. There will be testimony in the area by area: cultural workers, journalists, lawyers, politicians, sportsmen, construction workers, students at all levels and so on. All of us women have known about this before, but now a common voice is being raised. The abuse and harassment must be stopped at the conferences, in the coffee rooms, in the homes, in the schoolyards and of course also online. The Internet and social media have brought many positive changes to freedom of expression and democratic debate. It has increased people's opportunities to speak and to spread their views. But it has also meant that hatred, threats and other violations of privacy have taken new forms. The main victims of this online are women and young people. One of the worst forms of such violations is what is commonly called revenge porn, that is, that someone spreads sexual images or films online without the imaged person's consent. That it is called revenge porn is because it is often the former partner of the vulnerable person who spreads the images or films. There are also pages on the web that have sexual violation as a pure business idea. They encourage users to publish sexual images to which other users then write offensive comments about the imaged person. It is also not uncommon that various forms of contact information are also published for the person depicted, such as where she works – yes, it is usually a woman. There are also links to Facebook profiles, contact information for friends, parents and so on. Being subjected to this by a former partner is, of course, a terrible violation, and it can be devastating to the victim. In recent years, several cases have been brought to the attention of people who have told us about how their entire life has been ruined because of revenge porn. Although this type of violation has become more frequent and more advanced, the legislation and protection of privacy have not been adapted to technology and societal developments. The Left Party has for several years been calling for measures against online hatred and revenge porn. Of course, we welcome this amendment of the law which introduces illegal infringement of privacy as a crime. But legislation, as we know, does not solve everything. The poor values that appear in this type of online abuse, which come out in testimony and roll-calls such as metoo and silence, do not come to an end through legislation. In order to reach a society free from sexualised violence and violations, we also need to see how power and violence are interrelated and how stereotypical gender roles affect men's behaviour and views of themselves, of women and of LGBT people in order to take action for change. No matter in what form or where they occur, the abuse must stop. Hopefully, the legislative changes that are being made can nevertheless help to ensure that this type of crime is taken more seriously and given higher priority. Of course, legislation also shows what society thinks is okay and not okay. The study on which the proposal is based points out that restrictions on privacy are less acceptable. Yet there are examples of judges who have trivialized the dissemination of privacy-sensitive films on the grounds that it has become socially acceptable to be open with their sexual habits. Such statements by the judiciary will hopefully be avoided in the future.
i-6e53488323257538-79	Madam President, I would like The subject we have had to prepare for today's debate, Some questions about public access and confidentiality, can almost be compared to the proposals' answers to the tint pan. Hopefully it will be something reasonably useful in the end. But there has not been a direct recipe, but you have thrown in some of the leftovers you have at home and that can work together. Thus we have had to chew everything from the transfer of confidentiality in several stages to the lack of confidentiality in certain funeral activities. It has also been about tax secrecy at the Accounting Board and secret protection at work within the Prison Service and in international police cooperation. On top of everything, the government has a little general snow mash about how to work with public access and confidentiality in EU cooperation, mostly in order to be able to check out a perhaps not entirely fortunately formulated announcement from the Riksdag that has been finalised. But, as you cry out, you get answers, and it is perhaps not particularly here that we have our main objections. Nevertheless, the European Union is giving rise to one of our reservations. It turns out that the European Commission itself has issued cheques which it now expects us in the Member States to redeem, cost whatever it wants. In their attempts to suggest that the population of Europe would have some impact on this monstrous EU apparatus, something has been introduced that is called citizens' initiatives, where at least one million people in seven or more countries can join forces and sign a call for the Commission to present proposals for action. The fact that it is then up to the European Commission to decide for itself how the proposal should be drawn up and that, in principle, it can only be about introducing new legislative measures to further strengthen compliance with the EU treaties is another five. At least it sounds good and may not be quite different from the instruments we already have here in Sweden in the form of citizens' proposals and people's initiatives. But in addition to the difference in what such proposals and initiatives may be about, the Commission has, on its own authority, gone out and promised that information on who supports the EU's so-called citizens' initiative should be confidential, quite contrary to what applies to the Swedish counterparts and completely contrary to Swedish public access tradition. It has even been, as I understand it, about to bring Sweden before the European Court of Justice because we wanted to argue that the same rules of openness and transparency should apply to both Swedish and European initiatives. It is therefore almost somewhat tragic to take part in the preparation of this issue, where almost all Swedish bodies seem to agree that the public should prevail. Nevertheless, it concludes that confidentiality should be introduced to cover the commitments of the European Commission that confidentiality should prevail in these cases. It is absolutely crazy, Madam President, that we should abandon our old Swedish principle of public access, which has served us well, just to save the face of the European Commission for something that they have happened to publish on the Internet. On the part of the Swedish Democrats, we believe that a good conservative principle is that the general principle should be extremely restrictive in introducing confidentiality rules in areas where they do not already exist. It follows that the Commission's decree and consequently the Government's proposal to introduce confidentiality for statements of support for so-called citizens' initiatives should not be implemented. On the contrary, I believe, and many with me, among others, several consultation bodies, that the general public may reasonably have a legitimate interest in the transparency of who might be behind such an initiative. In addition to the Swedish tradition of public access, there may indeed be a genuine and legitimate interest in knowing whether a particular initiative is supported solely or preferably by individuals from a particular socio-economic group or from a specific geographical area. Or there may be an interest in knowing which representatives of, for example, industry or various political organisations support a particular initiative. Nor is there any indication that or where it has been demonstrated that individuals in Sweden refrain from supporting municipal public initiatives or citizens' proposals due to a lack of confidentiality. In fact, the whole argument seems both illogical and non-applicable, at least in Swedish conditions. It is therefore appropriate here that we in the Riksdag stand up for Swedish values and vote against this misunderstanding. Madam President, I would like I mentioned earlier that a good conservative principle is that the general approach should be extremely restrictive in introducing confidentiality rules in areas where they do not already exist. In contrast, it follows that public access should be considered in places where it has not previously existed. The Government now proposes in the bill that the School of Health and Welfare in Jönköping AB should be added to the appendix to the Public Access and Confidentiality Act so that public transparency can prevail there as well. We find this to be a good thing, as the business essentially meets the criteria for it to be so, despite the fact that it is a private foundation. Another private law organisation whose activities also meet the criteria for public transparency is the Swedish Bar Association, which should therefore also be added to the Annex. In addition to being a powerful lobby and consultation organisation, which in practice has a statutory monopoly on lawyers' services, the organisation has clear public law features, and its tasks include certain public authority functions. In addition, the activity is indirectly financed by public funds, since the membership fee is paid by professionals who in principle have a monopoly on government services. In the same way that neither the prosecution system nor the courts constitute a free-riding court, we believe that neither should the activities of the Bar Association be above public scrutiny, without, of course, infringing any kind of professional practice of the individual lawyer in relation to the confidentiality of his client and so on. It is not really much weirder than the public access to healthcare, where the activity is under public scrutiny and supervision, while patient records and confidential medical contacts can continue to be kept secret. Unsurprisingly, our opinion is not shared by the Bar Association itself, and we even received a long, angry letter from them the other week in response to our request for exercise. It is always fun when one's proposal attracts attention, and although I may think that their mediated firm opinion – a lack of any reason whatsoever to include the activities of the Bar Association in general transparency and public access- – can almost be reason enough for it to be introduced, it becomes ludicrous when they try to be intimidated by being like such a system to developments in Poland, Hungary or Turkey. We thought, in the long run, rather a system similar to that of our dear neighbour Norway. There is even a state authority, the Tilsyns Council for Law Firms, which issues lawyers' licenses and also supervises lawyers. There is really nothing strange about this, but perhaps there are those within the Bar who question the state of the rule of law in Norway too, what do I know? However, we are not prepared to go that far anyway. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 3.
i-6e53488323257538-96	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the KU3, which deals with some issues of public access and confidentiality. This applies, inter alia, to library secrecy, which should also include information on the use of information technology by individuals in libraries. It introduces a confidentiality of individuals' personal circumstances in matters under the Funeral Act, and strengthens the protection of private contact details and intranet images of civil servants. There are some further questions concerning enhanced protection of individuals' personal data. I intend to dwell on the proposal for a new confidentiality rule for the protection of individuals who provide a statement of support for citizens' initiatives under the EU Regulation. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1. With regard to the other proposals, I share the committee's assessment and believe that it is well argued for in the committee's report. According to the basic starting point in Swedish law, there will be a lot more before we introduce confidentiality in new areas. With regard to the introduction of the confidentiality of signatories to citizens' initiatives in the EU, it is such a new area. It is also an area where there is not very good argument for why it should be introduced. We do not have confidentiality for people who sign citizens' proposals in municipalities or county councils. We also have a system whereby those who participate in parties that come up with proposals for political changes should be public persons when you are in the Riksdag, the municipal council or the county council. One should be able to see who represents different opinions. It is reasonable to have the same order with regard to citizens' initiatives in the EU system. It shall be possible to verify that the authority is in charge and that the signatures approved by the electoral authority are correct. I'll also be able to make sure that no one misuses my name. I have no idea what interests may be behind and which can ensure that signatures are made. It will also be easier to sign the citizens' initiatives, and it will be done digitally. We know that there are many infringements in digital contexts – in intranets and on the internet. I want to be able to make sure that I have not been signed by an initiative that I am not at all interested in. This transparency must exist, and I therefore think it goes without saying that we should vote in favour of reservation 1.
i-6e53488323257538-104	Madam President, I would like The principle of public access is central to Swedish law. It means that the public – individuals and the media – can have an insight into the state's affairs, which are essentially our common concerns. Just as this is a central part of the Swedish legal order, the individual citizen's right to privacy and privacy is also constitutionally protected. Both these principles – the state's public access and the individual citizen's right to privacy – guide our work on public access and confidentiality. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight two examples of these principles from the report we are debating today. The first concerns the importance of upholding the Swedish principle of public access, while safeguarding the individual citizen's ability to influence the EU. The principle of public access is expressed in our constitutions, for example through the right to freedom of expression and public access to public documents. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has previously expressed its views on the importance of this also in Sweden's work in the European Union. In this report, too, we would like to emphasise the importance of the government carefully monitoring the Swedish principles of openness, transparency and transparency in the Union. We Social Democrats believe that there are several reasons for the disclosure of information on who provides statements of support under the EU regulation on citizens' initiatives. The system that exists in Sweden with transparency for the initiatives that exist at municipal level is good and works well. A corresponding transparency for statements of support would mean that the same rules apply to public access as when writing requirements for municipal referendums in Sweden. We believe that the Swedish regime of transparency would have been preferable. At the same time, we recognise the importance of corresponding rules applying in all EU countries on this issue and that the conditions should be the same for citizens of different EU Member States. That is why we support the Government's proposal. We share the assessments that I have gone through with the Green Party, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the good discussions in committee. As we see it, this is about safeguarding the opportunity that exists to use citizens' initiatives in Europe, as one of several tools, for individual citizens to actually be able to influence the Union. It is important that this possibility is preserved, and this requires common EU rules. However, we would like to reiterate the importance of the government continuing, of course, to monitor the principles of openness and transparency, so that the whole of Europe, including this provision, can, by extension, become more transparent and transparent. Madam President, I would like The second example I would like to highlight here today is the protection, and indeed the defence, of the Swedish rule of law. A foundation for the proper functioning of the rule of law is an independent law firm. This, as well as the free and independent status of lawyers, is highlighted in various international agreements, such as the UN Basic Principles on the Role of Lawyers, the European Convention and the Council of Europe Recommendation of the Committee of Ministers to Member States on the freedom of exercise of the profession of lawyer. In a democracy and the rule of law, it is a fundamental principle that lawyers should be free and independent of state, authorities, courts and other interests in society. It is necessary to ensure the protection of human rights. Everyone who is democratically elected understands this and knows the importance of lawyers and lawyers' associations being free of any state control. It is therefore ominous that SD proposes to restrict the independence of the Swedish Bar Association. In the long run, this is also a threat to individuals' right to privacy and privacy.
i-6e53488323257538-117	Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-6e53488323257538-118	Madam President, I would like I really only have one question: does Mrs Naraghi and the Social Democrats believe that Norway is a rule of law or not?
i-6e53488323257538-119	Madam President, I would like Of course, we believe that Norway is a rule of law.
i-6e53488323257538-120	Madam President, I would like Then the following question becomes: In what way is Sweden prevented from having a state supervisory authority regarding the law enforcement system here in Sweden?
i-6e53488323257538-121	Madam President, I would like In the Swedish Democrats' motion that we are discussing here today, there are a number of factual errors. Among other things, it says: and – – professionals who have a monopoly on government services. It follows that full public transparency and publicity should prevail in the operation. That is what we are dealing with here today. This proposal would be a major threat to the Swedish rule of law and would mean that, by extension, individuals could not be guaranteed the client secrecy that it actually entails. There is no reason for the state to regulate the Bar Association. The order that we have in Sweden today works well.
i-SBP4PC7XQ8ziC6JfSmSZUb	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal for a decision. The committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a law amending the Publicity and Confidentiality Act, 2009:400. The confidentiality legislation strikes a balance between the interest in public transparency, as Mrs Naraghi mentioned, and the protection of the confidentiality of individuals. The report deals with a number of issues relating to public access and confidentiality. The legislative changes essentially introduce a new confidentiality rule to protect individuals who provide statements of support under the EU citizens' initiative Regulation, as has been mentioned. The committee stresses the importance of the government carefully monitoring the Swedish principles of openness, transparency and transparency in EU negotiations. We believe that there are several reasons for the disclosure of information on who provides statements of support under the EU regulation on the citizens' initiative. The system that exists in Sweden with transparency for national initiatives at municipal level is good and works well. A corresponding transparency for statements of support would mean that the same rules apply to public access as when writing a requirement for a municipal referendum in Sweden. The committee believes that the Swedish regime of transparency would have been preferable. Madam President, I would like The committee also recognises the importance of the corresponding rules applying in all EU countries and that the conditions should be the same for all citizens of different EU countries. The committee therefore supports the Government's proposal and proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a new provision in the Publicity and Confidentiality Act for the protection of individuals who provide statements of support. Madam President, I would like Another proposal is that library secrecy should be extended to include information on the use of information technology by individuals in libraries, i.e. searches of computers in libraries. There may be cases where data on searches may reveal in some cases highly privacy sensitive information about, for example, people's diseases or sexual orientation. The ability to identify a person's areas of interest may be an infringement of personal privacy. If sensitive information is disclosed, there is a risk that it may harm the individual. According to the proposals, confidentiality of information on individuals' personal circumstances in matters under the Funeral Act is to be introduced, because during funerals there may be information on personal circumstances that may be very sensitive. Madam President, I would like The proposal provides for the transfer of tax confidentiality to the Accounting Board. It is important that courts and administrative authorities do not hesitate to obtain, if necessary, opinions from the Accounting Board in cases or corporate taxation cases and that the Board receives as good a basis as possible for its assessment. As mentioned above, the protection of the private contact details of civil servants, intranet photographic images and personal relationships in human resources management shall be strengthened. For example, employee photographs could be used to find an employee outside the workplace in order to expose him or her to harassment. Madam President, I would like In addition, it is proposed that the confidentiality of data exchanged in the framework of international police cooperation should be made clearer and more comprehensive. It is proposed that a new provision of the Act on Publicity and Confidentiality should apply to a law enforcement authority for information provided by a foreign body in the framework of international police cooperation with a view to preventing, detecting, investigating or prosecuting a crime if it can be assumed that a condition for the disclosure of the information was that it should not be disclosed. The confidentiality of information on measures aimed at maintaining the order and security of the Prison Service's activities, such as in prisons and detention centres and in the detention and transport of detainees, shall be strengthened. These may include, for example, the Agency's procedures for different types of checks at an institution or detention centre in order to prevent the introduction or use of drugs or other unauthorised objects. Other such examples include measures to detect or prevent drug interference in care and information on alarm devices and safety procedures to prevent the manipulation of technical equipment. It may also include details of other procedures for maintaining order and information on internal security measures. A further, smaller proposal in this report is that a new body, the School of Health and Welfare in Jönköping AB, be added to the annex to the Public Access and Confidentiality Act so that the principle of public access will also apply there.
i-Xnz1pfgxh1TG5mgVNP4yCG	Madam President, I would like The draft law of the Constitutional Committee KU3, Some issues of public access and confidentiality, proposes a confidentiality rule applicable to persons who provide statements of support under the EU citizens' initiative regulation. The Center Party believes that it would have been better to have access to information on who provides such statements of support under the EU citizens' initiative regulation. Anyone who makes a statement of support, as we see it, should be prepared to stand for it publicly. In addition, this would mean that we would have the same rules for public access in this case as when writing demands for a municipal referendum in Sweden. However, we in the Center Party recognise that the same rules must apply in all EU countries on this issue. I am pleased that we in our committee have set out in the report a clear indication that we would rather have wanted publicity than secrecy on this issue. But, as the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party do not want democratic European cooperation, one can, of course, reserve itself against such a joint EU decision. Democracy calls for compromises. In this case, the Center Party is prepared for this compromise because we value European cooperation – a cooperation that is democratic and economically important to our country. In another reservation in this KU report, the Swedish Democrats want full state transparency in the activities of the Swedish Bar Association. The Swedish Bar Association, through its Secretary-General in a letter to the Constitutional Committee, has stated that it believes that such a regime as the Swedish Democrats want would constitute a direct threat to the independence of the Swedish Bar Association. The Center Party shares the Swedish Bar Association's criticism of the Swedish Democrats' proposal. The Swedish Bar Association concludes its letter to the Constitutional Committee by saying that the Swedish Democrats really want to give the state control over the activities of the Bar Association. This could, in turn, be a first step towards the undemocratic development of society, as we have seen in several European countries such as Hungary, Poland and Turkey. The continued independence of the Bar Association is an absolute necessity for the continued functioning of the judicial system in a democratic rule of law. The Center Party agrees with this and, like the Swedish Bar Association, sees the nationalist policy that the Swedish Democrats represent as a threat to our rule of law and our democracy. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee.
i-6e53488323257538-143	Madam President, I would like Thank you, PerPer-Ingvar. There was a lot going on here. I have a lot of questions but only two lines, so I'll have to try and share it. Firstly, when it comes to compromiseing in order to meet the EU, I would like to ask Per-Ingvar Johnsson whether there are any other constitutional Swedish principles on which he and the Center Party are also prepared to compromise in order to meet the interests of the European Commission and other EU bodies and Member States.
i-6e53488323257538-145	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that this is a constitutional provision that we are amending – in no way. It's wrong on your part.
i-6e53488323257538-146	Madam President, I would like In any case, I see the freedom of the press and the constitutional principle of public access as quite far-reaching. With regard to the second issue we have raised, I do not know whether I was unclear in my speech when I explained that the fact that the Swedish Democrats believe that there should be general transparency in the activities of the Bar Association in no way compromises client secrecy or anything similar. I thought I was trying to be careful and point out that just because there is supervision of a public service that has authority in its mission does not in any way mean that the professional practitioner's relationship with the client needs to be compromised. Then the question, with the illustration I made with the health care system, is whether Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson does not think that, for example, the patient secrecy works, just because we have the Inspection for Health Care.
i-6e53488323257538-148	Madam President, I would like This is not at all about freedom of the press. It is wrong to say that this is about the Constitution. As far as transparency is concerned, I see that we do not see any problem. In cases where the Bar Association acts externally, as in this opinion, we are, of course, transparent. I think that the opinion we have received from the Swedish Bar Association gives a good picture of the threat created by the Swedish Democrats by proposing a new order in Sweden, which is contrary to the principles of the rule of law.
i-6e53488323257538-150	Madam President, I would like As we have now heard a number of times, the committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a law amending the Publicity and Confidentiality Act in order to strengthen privacy protection for individuals. The Liberals also support and support the proposal as a whole. Let me also say, Madam President, for time-winning, that I fully agree with what my colleagues in the Social Democrats, the Moderates and the Center Party have said, so we can shorten the debate somewhat. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight the issue of introducing a new confidentiality rule for the protection of individuals who provide statements of support under the EU regulation on the citizens' initiative, because that is by no means an obvious position for a liberal. Privacy is good when it comes to protecting, for example, the privacy and security of individuals or information that may pose a threat to national security. However, the general rule we have in Sweden, which says that the public and the media should have transparency in the public administration of the state and the municipalities, is excellent and something we must guard and preferably also export to the EU and the rest of the world. That is why we are sceptical about introducing a provision on the confidentiality of persons supporting citizens' initiatives. With the original wording of the committee's position, we Liberals would have had to either reserve ourselves or at least give a specific opinion stressing the importance of open processes as part of an open democracy. However, after a very constructive dialogue in committee, we arrived at a common position that we can live with because liberals believe in Europe, and cooperation sometimes requires compromises. We do not believe that this compromise harms us in any way. We would like to stress the importance of the Government closely monitoring the Swedish principles of openness, transparency and transparency in EU negotiations. We also point out that the system that exists in Sweden with openness when, for example, writing a requirement for a municipal referendum is good and works well. The committee believes that the Swedish regime with transparency would have been preferable, but at the same time we recognise the importance of corresponding rules applying in all EU countries because citizens' initiatives are a pan-European phenomenon that is a direct channel to the European Commission. So for it to work, the same rules must apply to the whole of Europe. Madam President, I would like With this piece of work, the Liberals are in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-6e53488323257538-159	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the bill and our alliance reservation. Labour migration is very important for Sweden's ability to meet current and future labour market challenges. Thousands of migrant workers come to Sweden every year. Engineers, English teachers and forest workers are among the professions represented. Every immigrant who comes here – whether you are a construction worker or a berry picker – contributes to our economy. This creates jobs and growth. It is good for the employee, the employer and for Sweden as a country. Here in Sweden, everyone is welcome to work, regardless of their profession or education. The reform of the Alliance is based on the individual employers who know best what skills and recruitment needs are in their own operations. The prerequisite for a work permit is that the person has a job on which he or she can make a living with salary and conditions at the same level as Swedish collective agreements. Madam President, I would like That the employment meets the requirements of the legislation is controlled by the Finnish Immigration Service. Here we want from the Alliance to facilitate control by giving the Migration Agency direct access to certain registers of other authorities. Unfortunately, the government is delaying the presentation of legislative proposals on this, despite the fact that there is an announcement from the Riksdag. The problem that we are here to discuss today concerns excessive expulsions of migrant workers. Time and again in recent years we have heard of this. It's all very simple for most people. A person with a job and self-sufficiency should not be expelled from Sweden because of minor or minor errors made without the employer's intention. The parties of the Alliance have repeatedly stressed this problem on several occasions and raised the issue in the Riksdag and in the social debate. Almost exactly a year ago, at the initiative of the Alliance, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government to urgently decide on a broader mandate for the investigation that was then under way regarding labour migration. The aim was to overcome the excessive expulsions. However, the government did not follow this announcement. The investigation did not receive any additional directives and the proposals that the investigation then presented did not respond to the problems. Not until seven months after the announcement of the Riksdag, the Government commissioned a special investigator to investigate the matter. We are still waiting for the results of this study and will have to wait the year out – until 31 December. The proposal we are discussing today focuses solely on situations where mistakes have been self-managed by the employer. However, the problem is much wider than that. Withdrawals and refusals of extensions due to minor deficiencies in insurance cover, holidays or the like, without the intention of the employer, will continue to be made even after the current legislative proposals have entered into force. In order to find a comprehensive solution, the Alliance has put forward its own legislative proposal. It is very rare that initiatives for sharp legislation are taken in Parliament, but the importance of the issue and the slowness of the government have justified such a procedure. The proposal has been reviewed, after which the Legal Council has given its opinion and rejected the proposal. On the basis of the Council's opinion, we do not follow through on the legislative matter initiated by us. However, this in no way alters the fact that the unwillingness and slowness of the government has had serious consequences both for individuals and employers and for labour migration in general. In this situation, the Alliance supports the bill instead. Its proposal is inadequate, but it is still a step in the right direction. The Alliance also asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to the Riksdag as soon as possible to resolve the major problem, that is to say, which makes it possible to remain in Sweden even in the event of minor or minor errors that have been committed without intention and even if these have not been remedied before the Migration Agency pays attention to them. This bill, we believe, should have an entry into force by 1 May 2018. That is what our reservation is about.
i-6e53488323257538-175	Madam President, I would like Already in the spring of 2016, over a year and a half ago, we in the media began to read about cases with these unreasonable expulsions. It was about people who had earned a few crowns too little during a single month or that an insurance or paper was missing. When I first took note of these reports, I thought that something had gone wrong. I tried to figure it out, but there didn't seem to be anything wrong. The Finnish Immigration Service had followed the rules. At the same time, both we and people outside reacted strongly because what happened was obviously unreasonable. There were two judgments in the Migration Court of Appeal that had been given in 2015. They were a consequence of the legislation that we had introduced just before the 2014 elections. This legislation was the result of a major discussion on abuse. It was mainly about berry pickers, and that was where the focus was when decisions were made in the Riksdag. With the judgments given after this legislation, we saw that the consequences were not in parity with what was envisaged. Shortly after the summer last year I was visited by Work Permit Holders Association. It is an association for people who have work permits in Sweden. It showed how many people were at risk of this in the future. They showed me cases of which I was completely grieved, and I realized that it was not just about two people but about many people. There were also many companies who heard from them where mistakes had been made, but now they knew that there were ten or perhaps even more people who would be affected by this in the future. What do you do? How can you correct that? But we had no solution, no proposal to leave. In November, in the Alliance, we chose to submit a proposal to the Social Security Committee to ensure that we put an end to this. Fortunately, we got all the parties with us. We decided here in Parliament that the situation must be resolved quickly. We said that additional directives could be made for the ongoing investigation into labour immigration. Then we could have put an end to this before the summer. We in the Center Party also said on 6 December last year that we wanted to introduce a halting law, so that the people who were at risk of being affected before the summer and before we had received the legislation in place would not be expelled. What did the government do? It had, of course, received a clear request from the Riksdag to get to grips with this. Well, it pulled it all out. Month after month went by without anything coming up in the area. We in the Alliance chose this spring to re-direct an announcement to the government to say: Come on now! Take hold of this, because it's urgent! The government then made the proposal for self-justification that the Riksdag will now vote on. The problem is that it helps some but definitely not all of these cases. Many times, for example, it is about insurance mistakes. These cannot be self-corrected. It can also be about previous employers. Even then, it is not possible to correct yourself. This means that the proposal will not be helpful in the cases we are now seeing. At the same time, the government set up the investigation. Hopefully we will get good results with sensible things that we can proceed with after the investigation has presented its results by the end of December. But before we have anything in place, we will see many more cases like these. Should we politicians stand by? Everyone here in Parliament agrees that we want to put an end to this. How are we supposed to defend this in front of people out there who don't understand why we don't have the power to stop? I really can't defend this. As Mikael Cederbratt said, we in the Alliance have tried to move forward with our own legislation. It is unusual to do so, and unfortunately we did not reach all the way. When we understood that the recommendations of the Law Council meant that even the self-correction would be delayed if we went ahead with this, it was obvious to us not to do it right now. This does not mean that we have given up or that we will now sit back and let this continue. We will push to ensure that the legislation is put in place as soon as possible. We have set a deadline in our reservation, namely 1 May. That means we've been trying to push time as hard as we can. At the moment, about 500 people per month are refused their applications for an extension of work permits. How many of those who could be saved by our proposals are hard to say. Even the Migration Agency can't say that. But if it's just one, it can have a huge effect. We know about companies that have key skills that support the entire company. They're the ones who program and control the software. If the company loses these people, it will be forced to close the company or move abroad. This is what it looks like. At the same time as this is going on, Sweden's reputation in the world is deteriorating all the time. There are large forums in Bangladesh and Pakistan, where people gather to ask where to go, to which country to take their skills and which country to choose. This is where a person goes in and warns them not to go to Sweden, not least after the decision that we in the committee had to take the other week. I am very pleased that all the parties in Parliament have said that they want to resolve this. It's great. It's important. At the same time, I must be honest that I doubt that the Social Democrats in the government really understand this problem. Minister for Migration Heléne Fritzon has said that this is about a few people and that most of them are allowed to stay anyway. Nor is anyone from the government here today to talk about the matter. You keep pulling this on a long bench. It's really like you don't understand how important the issue is. We have also seen several other very unclear statements about labour migration from the Social Democrats about what the system should look like. It comes in a situation where we have a huge lack of skills. Companies say they can't grow because they can't hire people. It is not just a question of highly skilled labour, it is a question of labour in general. This is about Sweden. It's about our reputation and our growth. It is about Swedish companies, but it is also about individuals and their families. There are children born here who are now in danger of being expelled, who will be expelled or who have already been expelled to countries where they have never lived. It is also about people who cannot plan their lives and their future because they do not know what will happen in this area. Let's say we want to work this out. Then let's work it out! The Center Party continues to push for a halting law until new legislation is in place. Such legislation shall be in place by 1 May at the latest. We've got to get to this. I would like to endorse the Alliance's reservation.
i-6e53488323257538-196	Madam President, I would like The starting point of the liberals is quite simple. Sweden should be a magnet for people who have education, ambition and capacity. We will attract competence to our country that develops the whole of Sweden, not only so that it gets better for themselves and the company they are working on, but so that it helps to build up the whole country. Instead, Sweden now banishes people for petty, minor misdemeanours, often committed without the intention of the employer. We have a completely unreasonable order. We must change this. I call for approval of the bill and of the Alliance's joint reservation. Madam President, I would like The problem is that when a person comes to Sweden, he is not quite sure exactly how all the rules work here. Employers are, of course, doing their best to meet the requirements that exist, and they must comply with laws and regulations. Of course, if the employer fails to do so, a work permit may be revoked. However, if the employer has made a slight mistake without intention and the Migration Agency discovers this during the processing of the application, the authority should be able to call the entrepreneur and say that they can correct the matter or that they have made a mistake and then solve the problem. One might think it would be a reasonable order. However, according to the legislation we have, the Authority cannot make an overall assessment. Instead, the person is forced to leave Sweden. We are losing resources in this way. We're losing growth. As a country, Sweden becomes less attractive to people who have education, ambition, capacity and so on. We know that there is a large shortage of labour in Sweden in many professions. Companies are screaming for people to hire, for example in the IT sector. Madam President, I would like The Liberals and the Alliance have repeatedly pointed this out. We highlighted this in Parliament over a year ago. The Social Security Committee then made a so-called announcement, which the government ignored. To be perfectly frank, the government is not involved in the matter. It does not care and does not think that this is important. This is a very big problem. Parliament thinks this is important, but the government thinks it is unimportant. This has finally – after we have had to drag the government to do something – led the government to say that if the employer himself discovers his mistake, one might imagine that a work permit does not need to be revoked. However, if the authority discovers this and the employer corrects it, the whole thing needs to be investigated further. If the government had already listened to the alliance parties last autumn, this problem would have been resolved by now. Then Sweden would not have had to expel competent people from our country. But the slowness of the government means that we have lost momentum on this issue and that it will be a long time before we get legislation in place. In our reservation, we are clear about the date of 1 May. This is not because we think that 1 May is the finest day of the year, but we simply think that it is important that the legislation is put in place as soon as possible so that more people do not need to be expelled from Sweden. It is also important, Madam President, that we look at the order and process we have in order to make law in Sweden. We were forced by the alliance parties to drag this through the committee into sharp legislation. It's unusual to do that. The usual order in Sweden is that the government submits a bill to the Riksdag which the committee then deals with. However, because of the importance of this issue, we felt obliged to draw this directly through the committee. This meant that the consultation round was rather short, but still well completed. In addition, the question went to the Law Council, who judged that the preparation requirements and other things were not properly met. We are pragmatic in that part. We have no reason to run over the Law Council and move this forward, but we accept that we turned that stone around but that the solution to this problem was not there. One must admit, I think, that this issue requires investigation, preparation and other things. But now it has been so long that we can no longer accept that the government is dragging this out and engaging in the matter so reluctantly.
i-6e53488323257538-208	Madam President, I would like I support both the proposal and the Alliance's reservation in the report. The focus of today's debate is on the Social Security Committee's report No. 7 this parliamentary year, the possibility to waive the withdrawal of residence permits when the employer has himself addressed shortcomings. This is the continuation, but unfortunately not the end, of the debate on the so-called competence demonstrations that has been going on for too long. My colleagues from the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals have stood before me in the speaker's seat and have explained both the background and the explanations and arguments as to how the Alliance has acted and why we have acted as we have done. From the Christian Democrats' side, we have the same attitude as the other parties in the Alliance, and as regards argumentation and description of this process, we wholeheartedly support what has been said by Mikael Cederbratt, Johanna Jönsson and Fredrik Malm. We have a joint reservation in the report from the alliance parties. It means that we want the government to come back to us with legislation that resolves the issue of the so-called competence expulsions and which will enter into force by 1 May next year at the latest. The fact that we have this reservation from the alliance parties also means that the representatives of our parties can start the debate, while the parties which, on this issue, constitute the majority in the committee speak afterwards. Of course, I do not know exactly what the representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in particular will say from the pulpit, but in the past representatives of these parties, including in the media, have written a history which, in my opinion, is wrong about why we are there and why we do not yet have a solution in place on this issue. I would therefore like to use my speech to give my view and that of the Christian Democrats as to why we stand where we stand. Madam President, I would like On 12 June, when we last debated labour immigration here in Parliament, the representative of the Green Party, Maria Ferm, in a reply to my speech, stressed that it was the Alliance that ruled when tightening the regulations for labour immigration was voted through in Parliament in 2014. We have also been able to follow in the media how the Social Democratic Minister for Migration Heléne Fritzon stressed the same thing, for example in Svenska Dagbladet on 11 August. It is true that it was the alliance government that presented the proposal in 2014 to prevent abuse of the labour immigration acquis. However, it should be pointed out in this context that it was done together with the Green Party. It should also be noted that the Social Democrats did not vote against these legislative changes here in Parliament. On the contrary, the party made it clear that it wanted to see even more far-reaching regulation at the moment. Anyone who wants to read about this can go back to the Social Security Committee's report 2013/ 14:SfU19, Action against abuse of labour immigration rules. Having said that, Madam President, it should also be stressed that, of course, there was no one who actively wanted the regulatory framework to have the consequences that we have now seen and see that it had. The Alliance did not want that, and I am not saying that the red-green parties had that will either. But then what has gone wrong must be corrected. We note that the changes in the rules that entered into force in 2014 were not a problem until the Migration Court of Appeal of 27 March 2015 concluded that an extension of a work permit cannot be granted if the conditions for the work permit have not been fulfilled during the previous permit period, i.e. the very fact that has given rise to the current situation. Unfortunately, in March 2015, when the decision of the Migration Court came, the Alliance did not retain the government power, and the responsibility for correcting the problem was therefore on the red-green government that had taken office at the time. You may think what you want about it, Madam President, but in the Swedish political system it is the Government Office and Government that have the great resources and thus the real opportunity to propose concrete legislative changes. What we can do on the part of Parliament is to urge the government to come up with proposals for changes. And that, Madam President, is exactly what we have done on behalf of the Alliance. At every general period of exercise during this parliamentary term, we have submitted joint alliance movements here in Parliament that the labour immigration reform should be looked after on the basis of its basic purpose. On 5 October 2016, we submitted a joint motion to the Riksdag in which we called for the regulations to be such – and applied in this way – that a labour immigrant in Sweden is not expelled because of rigid and bureaucratic rules, for example, solely because he or she has received his or her employment via a recruitment channel with a certain size and scope. On 27 October 2016, the Alliance initiated an investigation by the Government to look at how the rules on labour immigration could be further tightened up, also to investigate whether the regulatory framework has had the intended effect and to what extent labour immigrants are denied work permits or the extension of work and residence permits on the grounds of minor mistakes by serious employers. This was also something for which we gained a majority in committee. On 21 April last, the Alliance submitted a joint motion calling on the government to take further steps to develop the acquis and the application of the labour immigration acquis. This was also something for which we gained a majority in committee. To this can now be added the motion of sharp legislative proposals tabled by the Alliance earlier in the autumn in the context of the process of this debate. Madam President, I would like The representatives of the government parties will certainly say in their speeches that the committee's parties have been united in seeking to find a solution to the problem of the expulsions of competence, and that is also true in two of the cases that I listed. However, it must be absolutely clear to everyone that it is the parties of the Alliance who have fully pursued this process and have actually taken all the initiatives in order for us to move forward on this issue. In fact, the only initiative taken by the government on its own in the labour migration issue since the elections is to set up an investigation in July 2015. However, this study had nothing to do with finding a solution to the issue of skills expulsions, but its main aim was to, to investigate the extent to which labour immigrants are exploited on the Swedish labour market and describe the nature of the exploitation. The investigator would also propose appropriate measures to combat the exploitation of labour immigrants coming to Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would therefore say that a correct history is that the tightening of the rules on labour immigration voted through by the Parliament in 2014 was absolutely presented by the Alliance Government, but that it was done together with the Green Party and that the Social Democrats did not at that stage believe that the proposed changes of the Alliance and the Green Party were far-reaching and wanted even more regulation. It is also correct, in my opinion, to say that the problem of the deportation of skills was not revealed until the beginning of 2015, when, as is well known, the government had moved from the Alliance to the Red-Green. Since we have the legislative system we have in Sweden, it is therefore up to the new government to correct the problems, if it is the case that the government sees it as a problem. Since the Alliance has supported all the initiatives taken since then, I think that there are strong reasons to question whether the government has really seen this as an urgent issue and whether it is not simply that the government has been forced to jump on the Alliance's initiative because the opposite would be a political impossibility. Madam President, I would like It got a little whiny. However, I simply have to take that role today, because I think it is important that the history of the matter is correct. To conclude, I would like to stress once again that we in the Christian Democrats and the Alliance are positive about labour immigration. We see that it benefits Sweden. We want to get this issue out of the way as soon as possible and instead be able to focus on how the regulations can be developed, so that more people can come here, work and contribute to Sweden.
i-6e53488323257538-229	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing labour immigration. But that is not just what we are discussing, but we are also discussing order and order in the labour market. I will first say something about the starting points. Labour immigration is good for Sweden. It's good for the people who come here, it's good for the companies and it's good for the public purse. Our country simply needs a labour immigration system that meets the needs of recruiting skills abroad. In short, well-functioning labour migration contributes to growth and prosperity. That is also our starting point as Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like At the same time, it is important that there is order and order in the Swedish labour market. The rules must be balanced and third-country workers must have reasonable conditions of employment. Labour immigration rules must not lead to wage dumping or make it easier for rogue employers to cheat on conditions and exploit foreign labour. Thus: If there is no order in labour migration, jobs are threatened in Sweden and wages are at risk of being pushed down. This means that you get negative wage competition where wages are reduced for Swedes, and the system risks undermining the Swedish model. We Social Democrats can never accept that. For us Social Democrats, both are important. On the one hand, labour migration is a positive thing, but on the other hand, the rules must work so that they do not put jobs at risk and wages under pressure. Both, quite simply. Labour migration: Yes, but in an orderly manner. That is why we are calling for the motion to be rejected. The legislation that we have today was introduced, as several speakers have mentioned, in 2008 on the basis of proposals from the latest alliance government. The aim of the legislation was to facilitate the recruitment of workers from third countries. These changes basically removed the government-based labour market test. Instead, the starting point was the employer's own needs assessment for the recruitment of third-country workers. As we have heard, the legislation was adjusted in 2014, partly because it has been shown that cheating was relatively common. In short, the rules posed a threat to the Swedish model. The legislator therefore considered it necessary to take measures that underlined and underlined the responsibility of employers to maintain the level of employment conditions. In addition, it stressed the importance of complying with regulations on the Swedish labour market. In the debate referred to earlier this year, we discussed an audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office. It noted that 5-10 per cent of labour immigrants' cases relate to occupational groups with medium or low qualification requirements, where it is not obvious why persons are recruited from third countries by Swedish companies. This group is likely to include persons who have applied for but have not received asylum and whose permission is not based on a serious job offer. That was the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion, and that is of course a problem. Labour immigration should not be a way of rounding our asylum process. Approximately 10 per cent of the labour immigrants paid in 2014 did not meet the criterion of having a monthly salary of at least SEK 13,000. In his report, however, the problems are still considerable in some professions: among beauty workers, cleaners, butchers, bakers, shopkeepers and cashiers, kitchen assistants and newspaper distributors, the salary has fallen below the income requirement for more than 20 per cent of the labour immigrants in the profession. This is, of course, a problem for the Swedish model. But it is also a problem for the labour migrants who are being exploited and forced to work under unreasonable conditions. We Social Democrats do not turn a blind eye to those problems. We stand up for the fact that labour migration is a positive thing, but at the same time it must not undermine Swedish wages or collective agreements. That is why the government set up the investigation that has been referred to, which included how abuses could be counteracted. The survey, Strengthening the position of labour immigrants in the labour market, had, among other things, proposals that are now being handled by the Government Office. This includes, for example, how the Migration Agency can access relevant data from the Swedish Tax Agency. In addition, the Government has commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to reduce processing time in order to facilitate labour migration. It's again both. Madam President, I would like What, then, is the conclusion? For us Social Democrats, two things are important. On the one hand, we need a simple system where we have well-functioning and transparent rules. On the other hand, we must remedy the shortcomings that exist and ensure that we have order and order in the Swedish labour market. In 2015, just as Johanna Jönsson, among other things, referred to, two judgments from the Migration Court of Appeal ruled that errors in employment contracts, no matter how big the error, should lead to the withdrawal or non-extension of a residence permit. This means, for example, that a person who has received his/her holiday allowance paid in lump instead of split can be expelled. This also means that the person whose employer has missed an increase in the requirement for pension provision in collective agreements may be expelled. Finally, it means that those who work differently over time but probably on average can be expelled. This has led to the expulsion of migrant workers, despite the fact that the employer is following the rules that exist and the employer must be regarded as serious. It is not a reasonable system against Swedish companies or against the workers in question. It is simply bad for Sweden. It is, of course, unreasonable for migrant workers to be expelled in the event of minor deviations from the rules. My picture is that it was not the legislator's intention. As has been mentioned earlier in the pulpit, the Bar Association's Anne Ramberg, among other things, has stated that the Migration Court of Appeal, through its rulings and by failing to grant leave to appeal, is clearly unable to apply the current legislation in an effective and reasonable manner. It is therefore natural for legislation to change. In this, I believe that most parties in this House are in agreement. That's why an investigation was set up. That is also why we are standing here today with a bill that proposes that companies can correct the errors they discover without the labour immigrant being in danger of being expelled. From what we have heard so far, one can be fooled into thinking that the government does not agree with the Centers, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats that this is a problem. But in fact, we agree that this is a problem. The government is not unwilling, and the government thinks it is important. Madam President, I would like The challenge is that the bill does not solve the whole problem. That is also why a special investigator will report in December after looking at these specific problems. The reason why the first investigation did not solve the whole problem is that the issue is complex. It has been said in the debate that the government has been too slow. Of course, in the best of worlds, the issue had been resolved. On the other hand, it is important that we find a solution that is long-term and works. In the autumn, the Social Insurance Committee has taken the initiative to resolve the issue by means of a simple solution, in which the expulsion is to be changed to a deportation. Following the criticism of the Legislative Council, it has been shown that this path is not possible, even though in previous debates in this House it has sounded like this simple solution would work. Now it has turned out that this is not the case. The question is complicated. Let us not underestimate that. That is why I think we need to ask ourselves whether it is reasonable to use the kind of words and upper words that we have heard here today. I don't think so. I think it is reasonable to use some self-criticism when we have actually seen that the law has been extremely battling. The first one, introduced in 2008, did not work because it made cheating possible. The change, introduced in 2014, means the expulsion of persons who cannot be expelled after the judgment of the Supreme Court of Migration. The law has been beaten. It is unreasonable, and that is why we must now change it. But we must respect the fact that this is a complex issue. Madam President, I would like Let us now look ahead. This proposal will solve some of the problems I have mentioned, but not all of them. That is why, as I said, a special investigator will look at the problems that are not solved by self-rectification. Since it is important that we resolve these problems, both in the short and long term, I am convinced that the investigation presented now in December will have sensible solutions. Then, together with the Riksdag, the government must urgently ensure that the problem is resolved. I would like to believe that we will have legislation in place before the summer. It is not much time if we are to find a solution that works over time, but it can work. I therefore think, Madam President, that we should work together to solve these problems, because it is negative for Sweden and for the people who come here when the rules look like they do today. But let us remember that it is an extremely difficult matter. We need to be humble about that. As we move forward with further proposals, we must have as a starting point that the solutions we implement should be long-term. They must be good for labour migration but also promote order and order in the labour market. That is the only reasonable starting point. It is good for Sweden, it is good for those who are labour immigrants and it is last but not least good for Swedish companies. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-6e53488323257538-258	Madam President, I would like I said in my speech that I am very pleased that all the parties here in Parliament want to change this situation. There I made some difference to the Social Democrats in parliament and the Social Democrats in the government, because I have really understood that the Social Democrats in parliament really want to bring about a change in this area. But in Mathias Tegnér's speech, it became clear what the difference is between the Social Democrats and us in the Alliance in this area. In the first part of his speech, Mathias Tegnér chose to focus on the Swedish model, cheating, exploitation and that wages should be pushed down. He feels some kind of sadness that the labour market trial has been removed and that the Swedish National Audit Office points out certain occupational groups as cheating and causing problems in this system. For the Alliance, the starting point will continue to be that labour migration is good for Sweden. The OECD has concluded that the Swedish labour immigration system is essentially working well and that it has not led to either wage dumping or conditional dumping, which among other things the Social Democrats continue to return to. That does not mean, of course, that we are turning a blind eye to the abuse and cheating that is going on. We have also been clear about this in all the handling that has been going on in committee this autumn, so I do not think there are any question marks around that. Hopefully, we have listened to what we have said. I would like to put the question to Mathias Tegnér: do the Social Democrats really understand how urgent and huge the problem we are talking about today, namely the excessive expulsions, is and how urgent it is?
i-6e53488323257538-262	Madam President, I would like As I said in my main speech, the Social Democrats think that labour immigration is something positive. The Social Democrats, both in parliament and in government, want to address the problems that exist today. However, as I tried to illustrate in my speech, we think it is important that we have a well-functioning labour immigration that does not undermine the Swedish model. It is clear that when the Swedish National Audit Office notes that 20 per cent of the people who work in certain professions do not get the conditions to which they are entitled and do not reach 13 000 SEK in salary, then we see that there is a problem. In short, we recognise that this must change, but, as the Law Council states, it is a problem if we get a punch in the legislation that means that we do not know what applies. That is why we want to find a long-term solution, because the solution that we have worked with this autumn, which you yourself and others have brought forward, has proved to be ineffective. In short, we realise that we are in a hurry. We will do everything we can to ensure that we have a solution before the summer. But once we have a solution, it must last over time.
i-6e53488323257538-266	Madam President, I would like In a way, I am pleased to hear Mr Mathias repeat that there is a desire to make a change in this area. At the same time, the focus still seems to be on the abuse. What we are talking about today are the unreasonable expulsions of people who have tried to behave themselves and where employers have tried to do everything they could to make it right. These are the people we're talking about today. That's where the focus should be. To show some respect for it I think is good at this point, because there are many people out there wondering about that part. The fact that it is then 80 per cent who behaves within the groups that you say the Swedish National Audit Office has raised can also be useful to remind you of, even if there are abuses and exploitation from rogue employers. These parts are also extremely important, but now we are talking about the unreasonable expulsions. I have a question for Mathias Tegnér. A year ago, Mathias Tegnér was one of those in this Parliament who supported the announcement to the government that urgent proposals should be made in this area to resolve the situation. It was about giving a supplementary directive to the ongoing investigation. If it had been done, we would have had sustainable, well-thought-out legislation in place, probably before the summer. Does Mathias Tegnér think it reasonable that the government did not listen to Parliament's request at that time?
i-6e53488323257538-270	Madam President, I would like First when it comes to abuse: When we change the rules, we should be aware that they are communicating vessels. The legislation affects both those who have reasonable conditions, who are to receive a residence permit and should be able to work here in Sweden, and those who are affected by not receiving a reasonable compensation. In short, it is not possible to discuss these issues without both talking about the people who are now affected by the unreasonable interpretation that is being made today following the judgment of the Court of Migration and at the same time talking about the cheating that is taking place. It is not possible to have two different legislations. After all, we have a single piece of legislation to cover both groups. That is why I think it is reasonable to talk both about order and order and about labour immigration. It is my starting point that we need both. That is why I have been one of the few who have mentioned both. With regard to the announcement, we thought it reasonable to support the announcement of an additional directive, because it had clarified that the investigation that was already under way would also look at this issue. The government has replied that the investigator considered it already within the framework of the existing investigation. I thought it reasonable, as we did, to proceed with an announcement precisely to clarify that this is a major problem. There was a great deal of concern among many people who were just labour immigrants. So we thought it reasonable to agree to an announcement. At the same time, I do not think, like Johanna Jönsson, that it had solved the problem.
i-6e53488323257538-273	Madam President, I would like This is a strange debate. I've heard a lot of things I already want to answer. I can say at the outset that Mr Aron said that he was probably the whiny voice in this debate, but I sense a certain risk that I might be whining something more. Madam President, I would like It is basically a very sad matter that we have to deal with today. We have a situation in which all parties agree that the current regime is unreasonable and does not work. It's about people who do right for themselves and work and about employers and employees who haven't really done anything wrong – there have been some minor errors a long time ago, often even as a result of things that you haven't been able to control yourself, such as the lack of clarity in new legislation, that you thought that you signed insurance with the right insurance company but it turned out to be wrong or maybe it was a month too late because it takes a certain amount of time to get personal numbers and things in place when you come to our country. Such reasons form the basis for expulsions of people who, as I said, are right and contribute to our society and who work in industries where they are needed. There is a consensus among all parties that this should not be the case. Yet it is extremely slow. Fredrik Malm, in his speech earlier on, well described some of the shortcomings that will remain with the proposal that we are voting on today. These insurance policies, for example, cannot be corrected afterwards. This is about when you have changed employers and the previous employer may have gone down and not even remain. Then it is not possible to correct the error afterwards. It is also about the fact that if the Migration Agency has actually started looking at a case, it is already too late. Then it can be seen that they have already taken action and that this will not apply. When the bill landed on our table, we from the Swedish Democrats chose not to add a follow-up motion. We realised that the matter is so limited and that there are so many problems in this area that possible follow-up movements would not cover all the needs to overcome the legislation. I had hoped that, on the committee's side, we would have been able to launch an initiative which called for a broader review of legislation in this area, once again, which also proposed a temporary suspension law. That is something that I am now allowed to drive again. Stopping laws are, of course, nothing that should be used lightly, but at this point, when the situation has looked like this for a long time and everyone agrees that it is in a way that it should not be, I also think it is reasonable to review that proposal. In any case, when the bill landed on our table, the Alliance chose to add a follow-up motion and the Left Party to add a follow-up motion. When we arrived at the first preparatory meeting, I was prepared to present, on the basis of the Left Party's motion, a sharp bill on the extension of the bill. It was a very limited enlargement but based on the legislation that is already prepared and which is on our table, which simply reviews this requirement for it to be total self-justification and that the Migration Agency should not have taken any action. I suggested at a sitting meeting that the bill be rewritten so that you would have three months to correct an error from when the Migration Agency announced the error. This would actually make it possible to cover at least some of the cases which are not currently covered. However, the other parties in the committee chose instead to proceed with the Alliance's proposal, which represents a completely different solution. That proposal is not prepared at all before and, for my part, it was clear from the outset that it opened up to abuse in exactly the way the Law Council ultimately warned against and therefore rejected the proposal. For me it was very strange to just hear Mathias Tegnér here in the speaker's chair talking about the importance of order and the importance of consistency thinking and caution and at the same time saying that you should review this so that you do not open up to abuse and that this is something that guides them all the time. It would have been only when the Law Council rejected that one realized that this bill was bad. It was clear from the outset that if you do it entirely optionally, entirely voluntarily, to review whether or not to withdraw a residence permit, you are opening up to total abuse. This is when you open up because you have no control over what applies to the labour market. That is why we opposed it in the first place. You had a chance to move on in a way that could make it a little better. It still has a chance to stop what is happening right now, but it has chosen to focus on legislation that, in my view, was obviously never going to work. It was not only in the first stage of preparation, Madam President, that I pointed this out. In the course of the process, successively, several times, consultation bodies have warned of the uncertainty that this will entail and of the risk that the system will be used again, that it will not know what is and that wage reductions will be able to occur again. TCO suggested that the law could be approved if it was temporary. It was something I also made several times. I could support that. I stand by the fact that it could have been an alternative to a stop law – a temporary law that says that for a limited period we will make it possible to refrain from withdrawal here with a clear call and with background work that concerns those cases where it is overall assessment that clearly states that it is not the employee who has done anything wrong. However, bringing it in as a permanent legislation would be completely unreasonable precisely for the reasons stated. That was not the choice to listen to. Instead, they listened to another consultation body that wanted to link a reference to taking into account family relationships and the length of stay in the country when reviewing whether or not to withdraw a residence permit given because of work. This, combined with the pre-work writings contained in the legislative referral that was sent out, is also something that the Law Council grabs on. It will no longer be working conditions that underpin the assessment of whether or not to stay in the country. Then it will not be important to actually comply with the agreements that have formed the basis of the residence permit, but instead it will be how much interest you have in staying in the country that is the basis for whether a residence permit is withdrawn or not. In turn, apart from undermining the very basis of the residence permit, the link between work in this case and work permits and residence permits also leads to the same kind of errors being made different assessments and actually opening up to wage dumping and abuse of the rules if it is possible that the worker has such a great interest in staying in the country that one can look between the fingers in relation to these problems. These are some of the problems that I have consistently highlighted during the preparation process and which have been consistently highlighted by consultation bodies in various ways during the preparation process, but which the other parties in the committee have chosen to ignore until they are in a sharp position in exactly the situation that I warned against at our first preparatory meeting. We will be in a position to choose between two bad proposals: one that goes far too far and opens up to abuse and one that is in no way sufficient. That's where we are today. That is why we in my party, too, do not have a reservation today, support the vote on the bill. A small step is better than no step at all. But it is a regrettable process. I hope that we can be more open to listen to what we say in the future as well. Finally, I would like to say a few brief words about the reservations expressed by the alliance parties. I have chosen not to support it. It is not a question of me thinking that we should continue to drag this matter out. On the contrary, as I have already said and have announced in many other places, I hope that, as soon as possible, at least a temporary suspension law can be introduced, a moratorium on those who are expelled for these trivial reasons when it comes to employers who have long been wrong. The importance of proper preparation of investigations into legislation in this area is real. This needs to be done. We've just seen what happens when you don't have the ability to reflect. At the same time, we on the Swedish Democrats have a special opinion in which we make it clear that we will keep an eye on what the government is doing. We'll be watching how to prepare this. The fact that we do not want the committee to say an earlier date clearly in a reservation does not mean that we are not prepared to support initiatives or announcements even at that date or even before if it is found that the government is unnecessarily dragging out the process. We will keep an eye on what is happening on this issue, but we do not think that a sharp date that has been set in advance is the most important thing without following the process and getting good legislation in place as soon as possible.
i-6e53488323257538-294	Madam President, I would like I have been debating this type of labour migration issues with Paula Bieler's party since 2010. If someone had asked me where the Swedish Democrats stand, I would say that they would rather not have any labour immigrants, but if it is a must, they should be highly educated. It is something that has been consistent in every change of line I have had with the Swedish Democrats. Now it sounds a little different – with emphasis on sounds. Paula Bieler says that we agree in committee, that it should not be allowed to happen in this way and that it is a regrettable process. She says that it is because of the Alliance that we are debating here today, not because of the Swedish Democrats or the Red-Greens. Then I wonder; Paula Bieler says that this date does not matter very much. But for me it is a clear indication that we want sensible legislation in place as soon as possible. That's why the Alliance chose May 1st, but Paula Bieler doesn't stand for that. I think she should explain why a little more carefully. I'm curious about one more thing. In view of the criticism that has been made, I wonder why there is no reservation. I miss one of those.
i-6e53488323257538-298	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Mikael! Maybe it sounds a little different now. We are about to have country days and are about to adopt a new migration policy programme. In this it is clear that the basis is that labour migration should be needs-based. However, needs-based training does not always have to be the most highly qualified. There may also be temporary needs elsewhere. We are making that clear, even now. I can also welcome you by highlighting one of the accompanying movements, where there has been a slight error in programming. We would not have talked clearly enough about the fact that it is, of course, the one who has made mistakes that should be affected. We even have accompanying movements on our programme that make it more clear what we are debating today, namely that if it is the employer who has done the wrong thing, it is the employer and not the employee who should be penalised. So there may be reason to update their view of where the Swedish Democrats are actually on these issues. As far as the date limit is concerned, as I said, we are prepared to support an announcement on 1 May or earlier if a proposal has not arrived in sufficient time for legislation to be in place by 1 May. Then it should be clear that it is because the government has been slow, that the government has again delayed the process, dragged it out and let it go unreasonably long. We are always fully prepared to support such an announcement. But we do not think that a reservation should be made on it just for the sake of it. It's two months away. A committee initiative launched – we have seen the preparation now – will mean that legislation is in place at about the same time as the much better prepared legislative proposal under the majority text should be in place, about two months later. We do not think it reasonable to set an exact date in advance. But we are fully prepared to follow developments and to support initiatives to demand it in the past. Of course, it is also linked to the fact that we want to propose a moratorium. We think it is more important to get legislation in place that is properly investigated when it comes. It is more important than inciting legislation for which a proper impact assessment has not yet been carried out and which is again in place simply because it is needed now but which opens the door to other errors and abuses.
i-6e53488323257538-304	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you for the answers. But I wasn't happy with them. I think that Paula Bieler keeps arguing that it is important that it is done as quickly as possible. However, when the Alliance says it should go faster and proposes a concrete date, it is not very careful, but if it does come up on 1 May. It's sad and irresponsible. I cannot see what the Swedish Democrats think and want on this issue. But I think I have a right to do that. In view of Parliament's criticism of how fast – now I'm joking – the government is on these issues, it is perhaps good that we can be a small nail in their eyes. But I can see that the Swedish Democrats are not in favour of this.
i-6e53488323257538-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mikael! As quickly as possible means just as quickly as possible. But it is difficult to say in advance that it means precisely that date. An investigation is underway. We don't know what it's going to come up with. We do not know what consultation bodies and rounds will then come up with, whether there will be new questions and so on. However, if it turns out to be a drag on time, it is also reasonable for the committee to act. What the Swedish Democrats want is for the committee to state clearly and as soon as possible, preferably in the next few weeks, that they should already have in place a temporary legislation, a moratorium, which stops expulsions due to errors committed by employers one and a half or two years ago. This should be valid for about a year and a half, so that you do not open up for new abuse during that time. However, a clear signal should be given that as long as there is no proper, well-examined and comprehensive legislation on the ground, people should not be expelled on the grounds on which we are all agreed is totally unreasonable. That is what the Swedish Democrats want. And I hope that the committee will support that proposal when we present it. I will send it out to everyone in committee this afternoon. It is written and prepared on our part. The reason we don't have a reservation is because it's been that long. The most important thing at this point is to get the legislation through as it is now. A small step is better than nothing. You think so yourself, and that is why you have not reserved for the first point. The second point is whether it is more important to get good legislation in place as quickly as possible or to be able to boast of having been allowed to say another date, which may not be kept anyway, because it is not possible. If it is possible to act more quickly, we will support an announcement, as soon as it turns out that the government is acting too slowly. But if it is not possible to act faster, we think it is unreasonable to be able to put a feather in the hat and boast with a date that is not really relevant.
i-6e53488323257538-313	Madam President, I would like Today, then, we are debating the Social Security Committee's report on the possibility of waiving the withdrawal of residence permits when the employer himself has remedied shortcomings. Labour migration to Sweden is extremely important. In 2008, the Green Party, together with the bourgeois government, developed the open regulatory framework that we have in Sweden today. We think it is very important that Sweden is an attractive country of competence. We live in a globalised world. We need expertise that is not available in Sweden, and our companies need to be able to recruit staff with the right skills in order to compete in a global market. The open regulatory framework we have is not based on quotas or specific shortages. It is about that you can get a work permit provided that you get the same good conditions as the others who work in Sweden. Transparency and good conditions are important and a key to the fact that it works mainly well in Sweden. It is therefore also important to ensure that the system is not exploited by rogue and criminal employers. Both pre- and ex-post checks are needed. And if the employer does not comply with the regulations, it needs to lead to consequences. The last term of office introduced changes in the regulatory framework, as Mr Aron said. It was the Green Party, together with the bourgeois government, that made changes to counteract abuse and exploitation of the system. It was an important step. But it got too tight. This means that we see the kind of excessive expulsions that we now want to prevent. Immigrants have their permits withdrawn because of minor mistakes by the employer. It doesn't make sense. And the employer's minor mistakes hit the employee far too hard, as you lose both your job and the opportunity to remain in the country. We therefore want to correct this. As everyone has said, there is a great deal of agreement throughout the Social Security Committee that this should be corrected. A first step is this proposal, which will lead to some improvements in cases where the employer self-managed shortcomings. However, we need to take more steps, and we will therefore come back as soon as possible with more changes. We will develop this as a matter of urgency, and it will enter into force by 1 July 2018. Unfortunately, this has been delayed. It's not that we haven't had a consensus in Parliament – we've rather been very agreed on this – but it's been a long time. Unfortunately, legislative processes often take longer than we think, because the proposals need to be well prepared. However, it must now be done as quickly as possible, because we know that it will otherwise have major consequences. We also tried in committee to speed it up even more by managing the processing process ourselves, but unfortunately that was not possible. The Legislative Council noted that the proposal was too flawed, and the proposal was widely criticised. Therefore, it is now a real preparation to bring about a real change. This must of course be done as soon as possible, because it affects people's lives, companies' opportunities and Sweden's reputation. I will work to ensure that this can be achieved as soon as possible. I support the proposal in the proposal.
i-6e53488323257538-323	Madam President, I would like In my speech I apostrophe Maria Ferm. So I thought it was nice to go upstairs and take a line so that we could have a discussion. In my speech, I went through a lot about the process that led to us standing where we stand today. I also went through the many different initiatives taken by the alliance parties on this issue in recent years. We have acted within the framework of the general periods of exercise. Every time there have been proposals and reports from the Swedish National Audit Office – simply in connection with various matters that have been in Parliament – we have acted together on behalf of the Alliance and expressed our view that there must be an urgent solution to this problem. As Maria Ferm pointed out in her speech, and as the representative of the Social Democrats pointed out earlier, in many of these cases the government parties have also followed and sent announcements to the government. In this particular process, we have been able to continue working on the proposal that came from the Alliance. I have a question I would like to ask Maria Ferm and the Green Party. On Maria Ferm, it sounds like it is very important that this happens urgently. I have no doubt about that, but how is it that the government itself has not taken its own initiative in these years on this issue? Every time something has happened, it is on the basis that the alliance parties have jointly acted and taken the initiative.
i-6e53488323257538-327	Madam President, I would like I think that the history that Aron Modig presented earlier was interesting and largely correct. On the other hand, I do not agree with the part about the government not taking any initiatives. What happened was that the legislative changes that we jointly implemented during the last parliamentary term made the laws much too strict. In recent years we have begun to see the consequences this has had for workers who are expelled because of minor errors committed by the employer, which have unreasonable consequences. We have set up an investigation which was not largely about the possibility of correcting this, but about reviewing how the system works and what can be done further. We have also added another investigation, which came in June 2017, to take further steps. These are the steps we are now waiting for, which we will be able to vote through this spring. I can tell Aron Courage that it took too long to set up that investigation. We could have been a little faster there, but it always takes time to process these things. We have tried every way we can to make it go as fast as possible. Now, however, we have an investigation. There will be proposals, and we will finally be able to do something about that. I would have liked us not to have created such strict legislation in the first place, but that was something that the Alliance, at least then, wanted.
i-6e53488323257538-333	Madam President, I would like As I pointed out in my speech, this is true – it was the Alliance Government that put forward that bill. However, this happened together with the Green Party. It was a common product. The Social Democrats did not vote against it, but rather called for a sharper regulatory framework. There is no difference in opinion there. We also agree that legislation in this regard has obviously been applied in a completely different way from what was intended. Nevertheless, I maintain that I do not have the initiative of the government on this issue. It is true that the government set up an investigation in July 2015 to look at the regulations, but it was not about this. Instead, it was about the control part – how can we avoid the exploitation of labour immigrants in the Swedish labour market? The angle of entry was quite different. The representatives of the government parties are trying to make it possible that this investigation was wider than that, but that was not evident from what was known outside the government and outside the government negotiations. I find it strange that the initiatives that have come from the government on this issue have been non-existent. It is the alliance parties that have been allowed to push this issue forward time and again. Now it has produced results; we are taking a small step forward today. However, a large part of the merit for this must be said to be the alliance parties – they are the ones who have pushed this issue in parliament and outside parliament.
i-6e53488323257538-337	Madam President, I would like I think it is a good thing that the bourgeois parties have pushed forward on this issue and that we have such a great deal of agreement in committee and in Parliament that this is something that we need to resolve. The Green Party already saw the last parliamentary term that there was a risk that it would be too narrow, as we have now seen. However, I do not agree that we have not taken any initiatives. We had the investigation from 2015, which was certainly broader. When we jointly took a committee initiative, it had in principle already been completed, and it was therefore not possible to do anything with that product. But we set up an investigation this summer, and that is the very reason why we will have a broad proposal which will be possible to implement and which will enable us to resolve this situation. I think it is positive that the debate on labour migration is a little different now than a few years ago. We are now discussing the people and companies involved. We had a situation in Sweden where, during the number of years, we only discussed the errors, shortcomings and risks of wage dumping. I think this may have caused the pendulum to swing too far in one direction so that perhaps we got too strict legislation that affects people. There must be a balance in discussing these issues. We must have well-functioning systems that provide good opportunities for companies to recruit and good conditions for those who come to Sweden. But we are not going to create systems for the sake of the systems, and we are not going to create systems that go out on the people who are in them. We must always have reasonable systems that put people first and do not have completely unreasonable consequences.
i-BMNyX8DUpcbK2nPjYBz7Bz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Ferm, for your introductory speech and for the opening line with Aron Modig. It was gratifying to hear a representative of the government parties admit that it has acted a little slow and set up the investigation too late. I have two brief questions for Maria Ferm and for the Green Party. What are we going to do to ensure that the investigation work does not go too far this time with unnecessarily long rounds of referrals or other things that could delay the process? What are we prepared to do in the meantime until new legislation is in place? There's talk of at least six months. Even with the short period of time required by the alliance parties in their reservations and otherwise endorsed by the committee, there is an additional two months. What are you prepared to do during that time to slow down or stop the situation?
i-6e53488323257538-344	Madam President, I would like There are, of course, several things that can be done to ensure that new legislation is in place as soon as possible. Some things depend on how we act in Parliament, with urgent committee handling and the like. Since the committee is united, I am absolutely sure that everyone is prepared to produce legislation as soon as possible. Since there is a consensus, I believe that the work will be done quickly, and we have written in the report that it will be done by 1 July 2018. That's perfectly reasonable. If it is possible to speed up the work even more, which I believe is possible, it will be done. If we want it to be a real solution and real change, there must be a consultation round where organisations and authorities can give their views. We do not want to repeat the situation that arose with an unsubstantiated proposal. However, the work should not be too long, but it needs to be quick. There is always a balance between getting a proposal that works and speeding up the processes. We have written that the work should be done urgently, and I am absolutely convinced that this is also the Government's ambition. The committee has long been clear about, and the government shares the view, that the law should come into place. The investigation will soon be completed, and we can immediately start working on the investigation's proposals.
i-QFBoE2mSfPXg9FVmK7m1nk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Ferm, for the answer to one question! It is a bit difficult to take the talk about the work being done as quickly as possible seriously, given how it has been before and given that you yourself admit that you have acted too slowly. That is why there are concerns, which I fully share. But I also had another question. What are you prepared to do in the meantime? We were able to read the other day that in another raised issue, in which in principle all parties agree, namely the LSS situation, a proposal has been made for a moratorium, a temporary legislation, on the part of the government to ensure that until there is comprehensive legislation in place at least that no more people are unnecessarily affected. Is this something that the Green Party can envisage working towards with the help of a committee initiative and also in the area of government cooperation? The situation is so untenable. Everyone agrees that it must be stopped as soon as possible. A temporary suspension does not mean a whole amnesty or that there will be a badly substantiated bill that will be valid forever, that is to say, all the consequences that can exist if there is such a preparation that the committee has just worked on. It is about identifying an unsustainable and unreasonable situation. The work that needs to be done to make it as good as possible will take some time, and during that time you can take a temporary break. Is that something that the Green Party would like to support?
i-6e53488323257538-350	Madam President, I would like I don't see it as very realistic legal to do that. There are major difficulties with the proposal. I think it is a problem to use terms such as amnesty and the like because they are usually used for convicted persons – to give them amnesty. This is about workers who have not done wrong themselves, but it is the employers who have done less wrong that the workers are then hit hard by. I know that's exactly what Paula Bieler is referring to, but it might be good not to create confusion by using that kind of concept. That would be hard. The important thing is to put resources into bringing legislation forward as soon as possible and making it as good as possible. It is realistic and feasible. Because the work has gone so far, I understand that one is worried that this work too will be delayed. It is therefore a good thing that there is a sharp date in the report. But I am convinced that the government also wants this legislation in place as soon as possible. There will be major consequences as the work takes place. We all want to ensure that for the people and businesses involved there will be as little consequences as possible. Although the previous work has been delayed for various reasons, I am convinced that the new legislation will come into place. There's no one who wants to spend time.
i-6e53488323257538-354	Madam President, I would like Much of the debate today has been about history writing, what has actually happened and who did what. What we agree on is that in committee there has recently been a broad will to try to find a solution that will prevent workers from being expelled because of small or insignificant bureaucratic errors and shortcomings. In the Left Party's follow-up motion on the Government's proposal The possibility of waiving the withdrawal of a residence permit, we proposed two things: to delete the provision that shortcomings highlighted by the Migration Agency cannot form the basis for exemption from the withdrawal of a residence permit and that the Government should return with proposals to allow for individual assessment when withdrawing a residence permit. The bourgeois parties, in their succession motion, put forward a concrete bill with a different structure from that we had imagined. However, since the proposal, although very different from ours, was intended to remedy the same problem as we saw, and because we saw that there was a possibility for a majority to do something about it, we nevertheless chose to support the bourgeois proposal, in an open and constructive way, to explore whether it could be a way forward. As demonstrated by TCO's referrals, we had some concerns that the proposal would open up for a wide interpretation and thus raise the bar for what should be considered as exploitation or systematic irregularities. Despite the fact that the committee tried to twist and screw up the proposal, it became clear after the legislative process that it opened up a new situation that none of us could support. This is why the Left Party welcomes the fact that the committee was able to agree on the decision to still approve the government's first proposal and take some first steps to correct shortcomings in the current regulatory framework. Of course, we fully agree with the alliance parties that there is an urgent need to find a solution, but in the light of the difficulties we have encountered during the examination of the proposal, we are reluctant to set such an early deadline as the Alliance is proposing, namely on 1 May. It is reasonable and urgent for the government to do its utmost to come up with a solution based on the broader allocation of the investigation to enter into force by 1 July at the latest. Madam President, I would like Today's labour immigration rules put workers in a difficult position of subordination, which can have far-reaching consequences for individual labour migrants. Aron Modig talked about history. This is where I think the central conflict really lies. It is the basis for the imbalance of power that we have not actually agreed on, either when the legislation was adopted in 2008 or when we were partly trying to overcome it in 2014. The need for a longer-term sustainable regulatory framework that takes into account the demands of labour on the Swedish labour market, prevents the exploitation of individual labour immigrants and safeguards the rights of all employees to the wages and conditions regulated by our laws and collective agreements is obvious. The Left Party is therefore looking forward to seeing the study that will shortly present proposals on how the current problems can be addressed. In this context, the investigation shall consider, inter alia, the appropriateness of and, if necessary, propose sanctions against employers and/ or compensation to workers for the suffering and costs resulting from the withdrawal of a permit. We consider this to be particularly important. In the current legal framework, the responsibilities of the migrant labour force are much greater than those of the employer. It is this imbalance of power that we are talking about; it is the basis for the problems we face. It is fundamentally extremely unfair for the migrant worker to be punished for errors committed by the employer. It is not a system that we otherwise accept that someone should be punished for wrongs that someone else has committed – especially if it is wrong that is far back in time or has been committed by a former employer. It is therefore necessary and welcome that sanctions against employers and compensation for labour immigrants be investigated. This is an important step in correcting the imbalance of power in favour of the employer created by the current system. Therefore, we also believe that labour immigrants who are granted a work permit with an employer who violates the employment contract should be allowed to stay in Sweden for the entire permit period in order to apply for new employment. However, such a regime requires sanctions against the employer in order for the regulatory framework to discourage exploitation. But the crucial thing to overcome the imbalance of power is that the importance of the employment offer in labour migration is strengthened. A legally binding employment offer would ensure that the conditions promised by the employer must be complied with in advance and that the review and control by the Finnish Immigration Service is simplified, as well as ensuring greater clarity for all parties involved about the terms and conditions that apply. I think that the debate we have had today shows that perhaps it could also serve as support for employers to comply with what they have promised in advance – this is what I have promised; this is also what I need to comply with. The fact that the investigation is not tasked with reviewing the role of the employment offer is, in our opinion, a major weakness in the Left Party. We believe and believe that a new overall solution must include a requirement for legally binding employment offers in order to resolve the issue of imbalance of power which basically gives us these problems. In conclusion, Madam President, the Left Party has supported today's bill but has also tabled a special opinion highlighting our view of labour immigration and what needs to be done to achieve a regulatory framework that actually protects the worker and does not allow the employer to choose freely. In these parts, we stress, among other things, that work offers must be legally binding and that workers who come forward and tell about the irregularities of the employer should be allowed to stay the permit period out. We also want employers who exploit undocumented people to be liable for damages. For a red-green government, it should be self-evident to push forward such a change that strengthens the conditions for workers in the context of an overall solution. With this, I support the proposal.
i-6e53488323257538-369	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 1. The Government proposal seems quite reasonable to us, contrary to what one might think when the first newspaper articles on it were published. Some debate article said that the proposal would be contrary to the Constitution, which meant that both we and others got the heart in the pit of their throats. But as I looked at the proposal, I saw that these fears seemed violently exaggerated. If current practices do not conflict with the Constitution, then this proposal will probably not. It says in the bill that the proposal is really a clarification of the principals of piety, and in general it is that. There is nothing revolutionary in the proposal compared to what is actually in force today. In short, the proposal means that principals must invite political parties on an objective basis. This means that principals can invite all parties represented in parliament, county councils or municipalities if they so wish. For example, the principal may not choose to invite his or her own favourite party or exclude a party he or she particularly dislikes. That would be acting on a subjective basis. I speak a little like to children here. We hope the country's principals understand the difference. In addition, the Vice-Chancellor may invite parties on other objective grounds. Well, I guess this is the one thing that made a big deal for me. But neither will it, let us hope, leave room for discretion with the country's principals. Such an invitation must also be made on certain objective grounds and apply, for example, to all parties that have profiled themselves in a local question or to all parties that have achieved 1% support in the last election. Here, however, there may be room for strange interpretations. Some principal can use the wording to exclude a political party, for example. That is precisely why we want clarification in the proposal and in the legislative text concerning this wording. Madam President, I would like We also want decisions to invite political parties to the school to be taken as official decisions that are entitled to appeal to the administrative court. This means that decisions must be written. If decisions are not taken as decisions of an authority, they cannot be appealed, and no precedent decisions can be made. This is important legally and democratically. Not that we believe that many decisions will be appealed – on the contrary, there will probably be quite few. But it is important in principle. Nor should the Vice-Chancellor be able to delegate decisions on political parties' visits to school – we think in any case. The Vice-Chancellor is most responsible for the operation, and why should these particular decisions be delegated? There are many other decisions and tasks that are better suited to the vice-chancellor's suitability for them on other staff. The principals have been paid to take that responsibility, and so will they. We do not really understand why the Vice-Chancellors should be able to delegate these decisions under the proposal. We also think that the wording of the proposal on supporting material is somewhat exaggerated. Instead of having supporting material, the wording of the School Act on other objective grounds could be clarified. That is precisely where there may be uncertainty. Otherwise, everything is crystal clear. Had this been clarified already in the legal text, it would have been enough to read the school law and, in the worst case, the government bill, or the summary thereof. Then all this would have been avoided with supporting material. It would be a more rational order, at least we think.
i-6e53488323257538-378	Madam President, I would like Omörare – or rather you who listen at home – and parishioners! I remember when I went to high school in a school called Haraldsbogymnasiet in the municipality of Falu and there was one day information to the students that an extremely nationalist party with, to be clear, members with Nazi connections would visit our school and had obtained permission for it from the principal. The headmaster, in turn, referred to the fact that the high school manager had said that this had to be approved. What we students did was try to clarify the legislation that already existed and that could be used to keep organisations out of it if their message conflicts with the school's values and that school should work for. But in reply, I got from the high school manager that this is the best thing about democracy – that ideas may be bumped and wet. It is true that this is the case; I think everyone in this House agrees that it is important to have an open debate climate where ideas are thrown and wet. At the same time, the school is not just any public place. It's not a public place. The school has to comply with the School Act and a number of other legislations as well as the curriculum. In my opinion, visits to the school must also comply with these laws and curricula. The government is now proposing in the bill a clarification of the school law regarding political information at school. The Left Party agrees with the importance of this being clearly regulated and therefore supports the draft legislative text. In the bill, the government also mentions that the relevant authorities should update and review their support materials. On this point, we would like to add an addition. There are quite a few young people now attending school who will be first-time voters in next year's elections. The Swedish National Agency for Education's support materials underline the importance of giving students access to political information, and there are several strong tips to principals on how schools can act to ensure that pupils participate in the democratic dialogue. However, we do not have a perspective, and it is the political youth federations. For example, support materials provide the Council that schools can limit political information to one day. Among those of you who have been out in schools and had debates, especially in the run-up to elections, it is quite common knowledge that many schools hold debates on the same day. This makes it difficult for a number of youth associations and parties to participate in the political dialogue. We think this is an unfortunate consequence of the Swedish National Agency for Education's support material. The election day next year is also a short time after school start. It is therefore important to give all pupils equal opportunities to participate in the political dialogue and in politics as far as possible. Information going out to schools would benefit from highlighting the pros and cons of different ways of enabling pupils to access political information from the perspective of youth associations. The government should therefore invite the relevant authorities to engage in a dialogue with the youth political associations in view of updating the support material. We believe that the Parliament should support this, and I would like to support my reservation and that of the Left Party. However, in addition to this legislation and its strengthening and clarification, we must not forget one thing, namely that, as has been said, there are a number of other legislations – including the existing school law – which regulates what can and must not be in school. In the school law's 1st chapter. Section 5 states that education must be designed in accordance with fundamental democratic values and human rights such as the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality and solidarity between people. In the case of discrimination that may affect individual pupils, it is stated: Any trend towards discrimination or abusive treatment shall be actively countered. ..................................................... Sweden also has a law that prohibits incitement to ethnic groups. Hot against ethnic groups is a crime of hatred that can involve spreading hatred and disrespect against one or more identified groups. According to Swedish law, the Criminal Code Chapter 16. § 8, is incited against ethnic groups to do so intentionally, in statements or in other communications that are disseminated, threaten or express disrespect for ethnic groups or other such groups of persons who allude to race, skin colour, national origin, ethnic origin, creed or sexual orientation. What happened when we were visited by the Nazi organization was that many of the students were subjected to verbal violence against ethnic groups. It was also very close to physical heat. Not a single person was held accountable for what the students were subjected to. It is therefore important to link the existing legislation that exists in both the criminal code and the school law with the new update of the school law and the advice the Swedish National Agency for Education will go out with. In situations where staff and pupils in preschool and school are exposed to xenophobia and racism, the OSH Act should also be used. It is also relevant, according to the National Agency of Education itself. Having said that, I would like to say that I am pleased that the government has clarified the legislation but that I believe that much more needs to be done out in schools especially next year, when there will be forces that want to get into school and whose perception of democracy is totally contrary to the school curriculum and our laws.
i-6e53488323257538-393	Madam President, I would like I, too, am very pleased that the government has presented this bill, which clarifies how political parties can be invited to school. Current legislation is perceived as unclear, and sometimes it can be easier not to invite at all than to be unsure whether you are doing right or wrong as Vice-Chancellor. This has led to different interpretations in relation to the school's democratic mission, and in some cases uncertainty has prevented principals from even inviting political parties. It is important for young people today to have a chance to take a close look at politics. When we live in a contemporary with so much dubious sources, it is good if political parties can be invited into schools. It is also clarified that it is the Vice-Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor who delegates to decide on, when and how to invite political parties. The proposal means that the Vice-Chancellor can limit the invitation to democratically elected parties who sit in parliament, council, county council, region or the European Parliament. The headmaster can also make a different selection on objective grounds. Like Daniel, I think it is important to point out that school is not a public place. Political parties should be invited on the basis of the school's learning and democratic missions. The fact that pupils should acquire and develop both knowledge and values is reflected in the School Act and curriculum for each school form. One way to describe the democratic mission is to use the concept Students should learn about democracy and human rights. They will learn through the fact that fundamental democratic values and respect for human rights permeate the school's educational environment. The goal is for them to develop abilities in order to be able to act actively in democracy as a citizen of society. Political information in school should not be seen as an independent element, but as an integral part of teaching and education – a piece of the puzzle in a larger context. Madam President, I would like There is a broad political majority behind this proposal, but there is still a reservation that I was going to say something about. This is what SD has said about the objective basis. The objective basis is a matter of course in school, but it is now being clarified. You get clear examples of how you can relate to it. The second paragraph of the legislative text is an information provision and a signal to the principals, which is not really necessary since what is stated in the provision follows directly from the form of government. Nevertheless, the government believes that the provision and the text clarify the school law and thus have a purpose. I would like to stress that it is the Vice-Chancellor and teachers who are best placed to assess whether and how political information should be built into education. Rectors and teachers daily handle situations and information in teaching that place high demands on objectivity and impartiality. There is no indication that they would not be able to perform the same task in relation to political information at school. Madam President, I would like I think there are many of us in this House who have experience of our youth associations, who have pushed for clarification of the law. Thank you for that, the youth federations! In the face of this debate, I asked a young person from home: why is this really important? He replied: For us young people, it is important that political information is available in school. It gives us a real chance to influence and change society. When I was active in SSU, we recruited a guy at school who came from a pretty broken background. In his homeland he ended up in a Nazi gang, but here in Sweden SSU gave him an alternative. Had we not had the opportunity to invite him into our political community through school campaigns, he would probably have withdrawn to include hateful ideas. Political information can thus become an opening, not only to influence politics but also to find a more secure community. It was Felix. Thank you, Felix. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-6e53488323257538-404	Madam President, I would like I think we are many Members who have started our political career by being out with the party's youth federation and informing at school. We have realised how extremely important this mission is. We know that ignorance is great, both on politics and on democracy, as well as on the understanding of taking the debate, the discussion and the struggle every day to make people realise how important it is to engage politically. We can best remedy this by reaching our students early. I think we can all testify that the attention of some students can sometimes fall, perhaps in chemistry class or in religious knowledge class, but almost never when it comes to politics. I would even go so far as to say that the thirst for knowledge is quite great. We see this not least in all school classes that visit the Riksdag every week. When I was out in the '70s and '80s, there were problems. It was on one political edge. In recent years we have experienced problems on the other political edge. It is of course extremely important that we support the principals in their important jobs, but they have also been given the confidence to lead an important workplace, with many teachers and very many students. I was going to say something about the speech made by the representative of the Swedish Democrats here. However, I think he has shown a lack of respect for us and the House by leaving the debate before it ends. It's a little boring. I won't add much, except that I have faith in our principals. I would also like to stress that the Alliance also realises that a good proposal from the government comes from time to time. Then, of course, we should support it and support it, and we do so in this case.
i-6e53488323257538-409	Madam President, I would like Being young means having to make decisions about issues and things that you have never been confronted with before. Not least in school, the whale comes in a steady stream. It is the choice of school and language, and higher up in the ages you should choose the right upper secondary school. All these choices will shape the students' entire life in one way or another. Hopefully there are people around the students who can guide and support in these choices. It could be parents, teachers, a role model and hopefully an SYV. During the years at school it has usually also been possible to get out to different workplaces to form an idea of what choices are required and how society works. In order to make a well-founded decision about who will get your vote at an election, information is needed, not least for those who will go to the ballot boxes for the first time in their lives. What we are debating today is how this information can be conveyed in schools. It's not a simple question. That is why the government set up an investigation, which has now presented its proposal. On this basis, we are now presenting a report which clarifies the handling of political information at school. Madam President, I would like Democracy cannot be taken for granted. Every day, democracy must be protected and restored. The objective attitude of the school is, of course, self-evident. It is also good for the school to welcome and encourage political parties to come to the pupils and to the school, where the opportunities that this collaboration can bring are exploited. It is important that the school, regardless of its principal, treats all parties objectively equally. A change in the form of government clarifies that the principle of objectivity also applies to independent schools, which means that independent schools must also treat political parties equally. The responsibility for the process lies with the Vice-Chancellor or with the Vice-Chancellor or those to whom the matter has been delegated. The fact that the Vice-Chancellor is now given this status makes it clear that it is he/she who makes the final decision on how to communicate political information. This can help to prevent strife and anxiety, which have been problems when xenophobic and anti-democratic groups have shown their dissatisfaction. Madam President, I would like As I said, democracy cannot be taken for granted. Every day it must be protected. One of the basic conditions for a living democracy is the individual's ability to make his or her voice heard, including in the elections held here in Sweden every four years. To give every young person the opportunity to form an opinion on various issues is really what the whole schooling is about. Gradually, school years for school years, the student gets more and more tools to make well-considered decisions. This is another piece of the puzzle. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-6e53488323257538-419	Madam President, I would like We in the Constitutional Committee were given the opportunity to express our views on the Education Committee's report No 6 on political information at school, as it concerns issues of government and constitutions on freedom of expression and press. In principle, we have nothing to say but welcome these clarifications or guides to our principals on how to relate to parties who in different ways want to tell our students about their ideologies and societal ideas. It's in chapter one. Section 2 The form of government: The general approach must be to ensure that the ideas of democracy become the guiding principle in all areas of society. It is about being able to convey and anchor respect for human rights and fundamental democratic values. This is very important for our citizens, regardless of age. Especially when you are approaching adulthood and are still young and perhaps facing your first choice, it is important to be able to make these balances. All of us, Madam President, are, of course, very concerned that our democratic governance will be regrown by new bearers of democracy and popular representatives. I think that when we have been in talks with principals and other representatives of the school system, all of us in this House have faced situations where they have hesitated, I would say. I don't know if I'd like to express it as fear. But they have hesitated before whom they want to give access to schools to provide information. We're not gonna put our principals in that position. They should not hesitate to such a mild degree that they do not allow any parties at all. In fact, our young people will then be deprived of very important information for their own positions. Madam President, I would like I will say a few words about the reservations that have been highlighted by the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, because equally obedient reservations have been raised in the Constitutional Committee. I understand that the parties have different sizes and different opportunities to attend in many places at the same time. It depends on what batch it is and what size it is. I fully understand that. However, we reason in the Constitutional Committee that it is rather a matter for principal conferences and school leaders to talk about this. That is absolutely a factor. But it is not a matter of legislation. For this reason, we have also rejected this in the Constitutional Committee. On the other hand, the question of objectivity by the Swedish democrats – I address myself to the whole group and not to individuals in the debate – upsets me very much. I would rather they were here to apologize to our principals around the country for not having more confidence in the principals' good judgment in determining what is objective in this. We should not go in and direct the work of the principals in detail through legislation in this way. This, of course, is a stretchable condition for the principals' good judgment. We have plenty of them around the country. That thing's clear. On the part of the Constitutional Committee, we have supported the proposal in this report and have called for the reservations that have been tabled to be rejected.
i-6e53488323257538-427	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with some history of the preschool class and why we have landed in that there is reason to review the pre-school class's position. Several evaluations have been carried out which show, among other things, that the preschool class today has a rather unclear position. In some places, there is a lack of focus on knowledge development. Elsewhere, much better use is made of time to develop the skills of six - year - olds. The comprehensive school inquiry, which came in 2015, pointed out that there are huge differences between different preschool classes. It's a lack of equivalence. That it should be equal across the country is something that we all in here hold dear. The School Inspectorate also carried out an evaluation in 2015. It showed that in three out of four preschool classes there was no planning or follow-up of teaching, and there was no pedagogical cooperation between preschool class teachers and primary school teachers. Our six - year - olds simply do not have the same conditions throughout the country. The Alliance government set up an investigation in March 2014. The mission was to develop proposals for the most appropriate introduction of a ten-year primary school with a compulsory start for six-year-olds. It was supplemented by directives on the development of proposals for supplementary training for pre-school teachers working with six-year-olds. However, this government changed the directives to the investigation and governed it in detail, I am sure to say. It was said that the pre-school class would be preserved, and the directives on appropriate training for pre-schoolers were removed. In fact, I must admit that I find it very difficult to understand why these changes were made. Why didn't you let the investigation take its course? Why not have a discussion and a consultation round about a proposal for a ten-year primary school? You could have kept the preschool class, or you could have turned it into a four - year low school. It was an open directive. In addition, there was something important, namely a supplementary education, so that those who work with six-year-olds really have the necessary skills. Of this, nothing happened. I still find it difficult to understand why, because the proposal that is now before Parliament does not mean much change for anyone. Today, 97.8 per cent of all six-year-olds are in preschool class, according to the National Agency for Education. This means that 2.2% of the six-year-olds would be covered by this change. The preschool class itself does not change. The only thing I can see is perhaps what some teacher has said: that it facilitates teachers' planning when the six-year-olds are not gone. Parents today can take time off for the six-year-olds a little at any time because this is not mandatory. But just how much impact does it have on the individual six - year - old? As I said, there is no clear mission and no further training. In addition, the proposal ignores the announcement that the Parliament has decided on. There's a majority for a ten-year elementary school here. This is something the government has chosen to ignore. The notice also includes the requirement to produce a proposal for further training. It's been ignored, too. Madam President, I would like The alliance's starting point is that the first time in school for six-year-olds should be characterized by more learning. Six-year-olds are very inquisitive. Most people look forward to starting school and learning to read and write, not least. The preschool class, which is of uneven quality, means unnecessary transitions. In many places it has become an isolated island. There's no reason to keep it. In addition, it is extremely important that those who are going to work with the six-year-olds have the right skills. They need to be able to read and write properly. That's where you lay the groundwork. All research indicates that early school support is what makes the biggest difference. Therefore, we want the six-year-olds to have more and better knowledge of reading and writing and to meet teachers who have the skills to teach them to read and write. The preschool class has in some places a focus on play and on a little more unstructured teaching. In other places there are activities that are more schoollike, where you focus on reading and writing. But the equivalence is flawed. This is something that several evaluations and investigations show. We just can't have that. What happens is that valuable time is lost. You don't make the best of the year in the preschool class. In the new year 1, which the Alliance wants to see, there will be more focus on basic reading, writing and counting. Unlike in the preschool class, it should be covered by knowledge objectives. We want the teachers who work here to have the necessary skills, no matter what their previous degree. There's a need for a survey. What are the skills available in the preschool class? How do we need to develop it? This applies regardless of what teacher training you have attended. Madam President, I would like It is not just us in the Alliance who are critical of this proposal. The National Association of Teachers, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and also the Municipality of Nacka rejects the proposal and instead recommends that you do the primary school four years and that you start in grade 1 as a six year old. According to the National Association of Teachers, this would mean a coherent primary school with a clearer progression and a focus on knowledge development. They also believe that it is important to ensure that you have the right qualifications, that you have reading and writing in your degree when you start working in the new grade 1. Only yesterday it was a debate article from three researchers at Mälardalen University who have worked with transitions between preschool, preschool class and school. They have been looking at this for ten years, and they say among other things that activities and teaching in preschool class are characterized in several ways by waiting and preparing to become a school pupil but with relatively little focus on learning. They believe that it is at least 20 years too late to repair what the preschool class has become, but it would be better to make primary school four years old so that you start reading and writing and that students are met by teachers with the right skills. We all want the children to get a good start in school and that primary school equips the students with the skills they need to complete school in higher grades. By making primary school four years old and ensuring that teachers have the right skills, the conditions for this would be much better than today. Making the preschool class compulsory has very little impact, and it is difficult for me to understand the government's handling of both investigation and proposals. I therefore support reservations 1 and 2 from the Alliance.
i-6e53488323257538-443	Madam President, I would like We're here to debate the start of school from the age of six. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 3. Finally, Madam President. This has been a cane horse since the Swedish Democrats entered the Parliament building. At last we are beginning to take a step in the right direction! Is that all the way through? Is this complete so that we can be 100% satisfied? No, I'm afraid not. There is more to wish for, but the foundation is now laid for us to have compulsory schooling for Sweden's six-year-olds, and that is positive. The fact that the Swedish Democrats would rather have had compulsory education than compulsory education is perhaps another debate that we will have to take another day. But I think it would have been better. To avoid getting bogged down in constitutional changes, Madam President, it is easiest to get through the change to leave the preschool class in its present form. Having said that, the Swedish Democrats will certainly not stop pushing the issue of a changed curriculum. By 2016, the curriculum for the preschool class was clearly improved. However, if the preschool class becomes compulsory and more part of comprehensive school, a correction of the curriculum should also be given. Free meals and school shootings are an important element if the school form becomes compulsory. In this case, the government has provided for this, which is a very good thing. The school has been completely reformed over the last 30 years. Therefore, all new steps should be taken with caution and implemented in a wise and orderly manner. As a teacher, I myself have experienced this for 15 years when I stood and saw all these reforms being implemented, many times unfortunately not in a good way. We believe that compulsory preschool class is such a step that can t ass without tearing up everything with its roots. It meets the requirements that we had in our exercise 2017/ 18:1062 that says that a pre-school class will become a compulsory part of comprehensive school that will thus be ten years old. Madam President, I would like At a time of high teacher flight and poor study results, we need to devote energy to the real problems of the school. The real problem at school today is that unfortunately in many places there is a working environment that neither students nor teachers want to go to, a work environment that is totally uncertain. Recently, a week ago, a female teacher was so severely kicked in the stomach that she had a miscarriage. We should not spend time, as we do today, arguing about small things in Swedish school, but we should spend time looking at what we can do. The Swedish Democrats have proposed on-call class. We have proposed a school of duty for those students who are not supposed to be in school at all, i.e. those who are under investigation and have been found guilty. We have also proposed a career ladder worthy of the name of the teachers – the Singapore model – where teachers lift teachers. The teacher system was a good idea, but unfortunately it fell completely wrong. I could do a little more, but briefly we can say that I have had talks with two teachers who were not Swedish democrats at the beginning of the conversation. After 40 minutes of conversation, however, they had landed t in we had ended up quite right. Today, the principals do not enter the classroom. I have met teachers at schools where a principal has never been inside for 40 years and looked at a lesson that a teacher has had. Then how is the headmaster supposed to be able to set wages? We also lack outside staff. The municipality has unfortunately used them as budget regulators since 1991. There is a government headship here that I know at least two more parties here in Parliament have looked at and think is a wise implementation. We cannot do what we do today when teachers are not allowed to be teachers. These are important things to discuss. Let us now proceed with this step in order to allow Sweden's teachers to work on and, in the long term, only to be teachers, Madam President. Let us spend time developing solutions that enable Sweden's teachers to be good teachers.
i-6e53488323257538-455	Madam President, I would like It is an important issue that we are discussing and debating here today – school start at the age of six. I can only regret that the Minister for Education himself does not participate in the debate. I think that could have clarified some of the positions and answered some questions about what we from the alliance parties are wondering, for example why we have not listened more to both the profession and research and the proposal that has been in place since before. As has been said earlier in the debate, I think we all agree that all children have the right to a really good school and that all children have the right to a really good school start. I would therefore also like to refer to the article that Maria Stockhaus mentioned by three researchers – one professor and two docents – at Mälardalen University. We were able to read it in Svenska Dagbladet yesterday, and the headline was That is precisely what is a large part of the question: Why should you start school twice? Why make a one-year compulsory form of education as is done in this proposal? The preschool class, says the researchers, has not become as it was intended, and then we cannot continue to patch and cook but have to reconsider. I would like to quote a short passage from the article: our research group at Mälardalen University, which over the last ten years has examined the transition between the school forms preschool, preschool class and school, says that twenty years of preschool class can be enough. The preschool class should be abolished in order to allow children to enter primary school at the age of six. ..................................................... I think it would be extremely relevant to hear the Minister's view of what the researchers say has been followed for ten years and what makes the government present another proposal at Parliament's table. The Alliance set up an investigation, with open directives, on the possibility of a ten-year primary school. Why the government amended the directives would also have been nice to have an explanation and an answer to. There are several announcements about ten years of primary school in this Parliament, and we from the alliance parties do not believe that this bill can be considered a response to these announcements, even if the government writes it in the bill. The representative of the Swedish Democrats Stefan Jakobsson says that they have now changed and think that this is still a pretty good form. Why the Swedish Democrats don't listen to what the researchers say, I don't understand either, although the Swedish Democrats think that you need to add the preschool curriculum something that is called rudimentary language treatment and numeracy. This at least makes me wonder whether the Swedish Democrats have even read the preschool class's current curriculum, where languages and different forms of mathematical skills are actually an important part. Government representatives will, of course, talk about the excellence of the proposal a little later in the debate, but I am nevertheless surprised that the researchers are not listened to more. Let me also make it clear now that there are many activities, many preschool classes, in the Swedish school that work perfectly well. But the fact that not all preschool classes get the clarity that they would need is part of the problem. Several members of the Parliament's Education Committee participated yesterday in a debate on the equality agenda that a number of trade unions are supporting, and precisely as regards the issue of equivalence and the possibility for all children to start school at the age of six, it is a question of creating the best possible conditions for learning and knowledge. Those who do not belong to political parties, or who may only partially do so, later in the debate also stated that the most important thing in terms of equivalence is that all students should have the opportunity to have high expectations and to acquire good knowledge. It is therefore extremely important that there is the right skills of the staff meeting the six-year-old in the preschool class. What, then, is the right competence? There we had proposals from the alliance parties to link this to investigations in order to produce it in a good way, but also to invest resources in skills development so that this is taken seriously: to be able to meet every six-year-old at the level that he or she actually is. That is why it would be useful today to consider whether it would not be a good idea to vote in favour of the Alliance's two reservations, 1 and 2. When it comes to such an important issue as this, I do not understand why you say that you lay a good foundation when you do something half-assed. Why not do the right thing in the first place? Now I'm going to get a little personal and tell you how we've tried to do right from the start. There are several of us who have experience from the Swedish school system. When the preschool class was introduced, Madam President, in Skövde quite a few years ago, ten-year primary school was introduced. All children were entitled to school shooting, all children were entitled to free school meals and all children were entitled to early support. They held out for quite a few years, but they constantly got comments from the Swedish National Agency for Education that we do not have a ten-year primary school in Sweden. Therefore, you cannot call it a ten - year primary school, and you cannot give the benefits given in Skövde during this time. I would have hoped that we in Parliament could have made decisions and said: It is an important part to see that you start primary school on one occasion. Starting school at the age of six does not mean that you need to start twice, but that means starting school. Maria Stockhaus of the Moderates, who are another alliance party, highlighted the importance of such an urgent reform as this is all about. My successors on the list of speakers from other alliance parties will certainly also highlight this in the debate. Ten-year primary school is not something you lose by making the preschool class compulsory. It is something you do for every child's right to an equal school and the opportunity to learn. Therefore, the Alliance's proposal for a ten-year primary school with all its implications should be what the Riksdag decides on. Once again, I would like to support Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
i-6e53488323257538-473	Madam President, I would like One is impressed by the humility of the Minister of Education. Here a new compulsory form of school is started, and then one might imagine that a minister would be so proud of this that he offered cake, went to parade Drottninggatan or at least participated in the debate. But Minister Fridolin does not, and I find that regrettable. This is a fairly important message and an important decision. It does not go as far as I and the alliance parties would like, but it is still important. When introducing a new compulsory form of schooling, I think the Minister of Education should celebrate this. While there are other important, skilled and knowledgeable representatives here in the debate, I still think it would be reasonable precisely for the symbolic value if the Minister for Education celebrated a new form of compulsory schooling. But perhaps this still reflects the doubts that the government feels. This is about the students learning more, but not too much more. They're supposed to start school early, but not really start. You're supposed to have a school for six-year-olds, but it's not supposed to be a real school. Students should learn to read earlier, but not so much before, and they should not read too much. They should receive support earlier, but they should not get it the way they get it in primary school, but it should be almost support earlier. It would be exciting to see the Grotesco humor gang make a parody of this, for it shows quite a lot of the misgivings that the government has on point after point in school politics. You want a little bit, but you can't go all the way through or, if Jane Austen were to write a novel about this: You realize you should do something. Reason is there, but the feeling says otherwise. Madam President, I would like I met the mother of a guy who was just five years old. She told me that he had one wish on his fifth birthday: that he would receive a gift in the form of a lesson. Now I hear that you shudder on the red-green bench and shake your head so that it can be heard all the way here. But quite a few young people and children actually yearn for school, and homework and learning are in some way the symbol of school. I think we have a duty and a responsibility to capture this desire for knowledge. We must see that these early years are important in a young person's development of knowledge. We need to see how much you learn then, how much is happening in your brain and how much experience you gain in these important years. From our side, we will then consider how to get a school system that captures this desire for knowledge. You should take advantage of it instead of showing off the two-mindedness that now characterises politics – in fact for a number of reasons. The most important thing is that we need more knowledge in Sweden. We must ensure that everyone who attends Swedish school and approaches Swedish school has as much knowledge as possible and as early as possible learns basic skills such as reading, writing and counting. It is also about the perspective of social mobility. The sooner we make sure that more people learn more, the more we increase equivalence in Swedish schools and the less important the parents' background becomes. In order to increase social mobility, it is incredibly important that the preschool class does not become a compulsory school form but instead becomes grade 1 in a ten-year primary school. This will give you a clearer focus on knowledge and a previous support, and the students will have stronger tools to assert their own right to support the development of knowledge. I think that what the government is now presenting is a compromise that shows misgivings and shows that the government has not really taken the warnings seriously – the warnings that say that the preschool class looks very diverse around the country. In some places it is almost, as Ulrika Carlsson was previously at, a ten-year primary school. There the preschool class has been integrated with the first and second in an F2 with the first, second and third in an F3 or with the first in an F1st. Elsewhere, the preschool class is something entirely different, where you do not have the clear knowledge focus that you could have. Madam President, I would like Apart from the vision of knowledge and the right to support, we see a betrayal that does not follow the announcements that exist about continuing training for those who work with the six-year-olds. Madam President, I would like I also find it regrettable that the Swedish Democrats fall into this trap. They say they have sports, demands, and suggestions that they would like to have a ten - year primary school. But once they have the chance to support the proposals from the Alliance for a ten-year primary school, they will only be able to do so in a couple of three or four announcements, or how many there can be that we have had together. Then they fall to little and let through the government's compromise. I find that sad. It is sad for Sweden, but it is particularly sad for the six-year-olds who, instead of joining a ten-year primary school, are now allowed to join a compulsory preschool class. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the Alliance's reservations 1 and 2.
i-6e53488323257538-485	Madam President, I would like Since I was apostrophated, I cannot help but come up and have a small debate with Christer. In this case, I think I will have to explain to the Swedish people a little more clearly how this has been done. Have we Swedish democrats always supported exactly the same line that the Alliance has taken? Answer no. But when we got the first SOU it lay and sailed far out on the sea compared to where we other parties stood somewhere. The Swedish Democrats believe that we are in the middle, and we had the Alliance a little to the right of us. So we landed in the message, Madam President, to go out and make an announcement to call the ship into port. After the process has rolled on in the meantime, the Government's proposals have landed better and closer to the Swedish Democrats than the Alliance's proposals. In the case of the Swedish Democrats, Madam President, we are pragmatic politicians. For me as a teacher, it is more important that we get things done than that we postpone this for another time. For this reason, I would just like to make it clear that we agreed with the announcement from the outset to call the ship into port. Now the government has landed closer to the Swedish Democrats than the Alliance's proposal from the beginning. Therefore, we choose to support the Government's proposal so that something happens in the Swedish school with this reform. It happens just enough. We're not picking everything up with the roots. I think Christer Nylander can agree with me that some reforms have been implemented far too quickly and far too large. The Swedish school system has been shaken five times in 30 years, and that is not good.
i-6e53488323257538-490	Madam President, I would like Let me reuse Stefan Jakobsson's metaphor. The problem is, even if the ship is close to port, you can't go ashore. It's only when the ship has reached a port you can go ashore. Therefore, it is surprising that you are not pursuing the idea of having a ten-year primary school, because that is bringing the ship all the way to port. Now it will be a compromise that makes you have to jump from the ship into port to get on solid ground. Do Stefan Jakobsson and the Swedish Democrats still want a ten-year primary school? If you still want it but at the same time say that you should not reform too much, the logical conclusion of your decision today will be that there will be two reforms instead of one reform. Is it better with two reforms than one reform, Stefan Jakobsson?
i-6e53488323257538-493	Madam President, I would like Yes, I think it's better to do it in small steps, because if it's something that my fellow teachers are tired of, it's all total changes. Most of them are not even based on research, but we have just pushed everything back and forth. I would rather do as Finland did in 1985. Lock all of us politicians up and make sure we get along so that we get a long-term school plan. If it is something that the Swedish teachers, principals, students and parents need, it is long-term. I'm the first person to sit in such a meeting, Christer Nylander. I extend my hand to everyone and everything, even to those parties who do not even want to sit in the same room as us. For the teachers, students and the future of Sweden, we must highlight what is important, and that is long-term. And long-termism is best achieved through small reforms rather than giant ones that uproot everything. We need to revise basically the entire school law if we are to introduce a four-year low school. Now we get a ten-year compulsory school. That is the most important thing for the Swedish Democrats. We are behind this, and we have done so from the beginning. The fact that we agreed with your proposal from the outset was to try to attract this. Christer Nylander's metaphor with the ship that's not in port was nice, but it's so close now that we can start landing people. Maybe we can't jump off the quay edge up on the ship, but at least we can start moving things over. My hand is stretched out, Christer Nylander, for real. Let's sit down and discuss Swedish school, and let's have peace and quiet in school for the next 20 years. We can do this if we politicians only lower our guard and decide what is good for the school.
i-6e53488323257538-499	Madam President, I would like I do not give much for Stefan Jakobsson's definition of the word long-term. During a single term of office, he and his party have held three completely different positions in the view of ten-year primary school. If you want a long-term school policy, you must reasonably have an idea of where you want to go. You have to stick to the position you have if there is no proof that something else is better. I have not heard Stefan Jakobsson say that a compulsory preschool class would be better than a ten-year primary school. On the contrary, he says that the ship is almost there, so it is almost as good as he would like it. But neither he himself, the Swedish Democrats nor the research says it is better. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the compromise that the government is drumming through with the Swedish Democrats is worse for Sweden and for Sweden's six-year-olds. Unfortunately, it means less knowledge and less social mobility for Swedish young people.
i-6e53488323257538-503	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have always strived for a variety of forms of childcare and schooling to affirm the fact that each person is unique and has different needs. We also stress that children should be allowed to be children and that it is important that play and care can be central to our child's everyday life. It must also continue to be the case for a six - year - old who starts school. Against this one must weigh the benefits it could bring for children to go to school a year earlier and to take advantage of the curiosity, curiosity and desire to learn that exists in a particular six - year - old. Of course, this is also being used in preschool class, but for me there are two major reasons for introducing ten-year primary school. We have a late school start if you compare internationally, and it requires a reform that increases students' time with skilled teachers. After all, we are low in the number of hours of teaching if we compare ourselves with other OECD countries. The second important reason is that the Alliance's proposal for a four-year low stage directly gives the student a link to the knowledge objectives and the right to special support in accordance with the School Act. This means that we raise our ambitions in Swedish schools. The government's proposal for a compulsory preschool class, I don't see much sense in it. What is accomplished by forcing the 2,000 children who, for various reasons, do not attend preschool classes to do so? Is it a big school reform? No, perhaps this is what the Minister realised when he did not come to today's debate. Madam President, I would like The Alliance government set up the study on ten-year schooling, but when the current government took office, the directives were amended directly to aim instead at a compulsory preschool class. It looks like compulsory preschool class will gain Parliament's voice later today, but unfortunately it will only mean small changes in the situation we have today. The biggest change will be reduced freedom for families when you are forced into a preschool class, in which the vast majority already go, but without today's right to take days off for more time together. Madam President, I would like No, a four-year low school where six-year-olds receive a structured education that follows the primary school's learning goals would have been a reform worthy of the name and would have had far-reaching effects. It would not only give our students more time with the teachers but also give the children the right to the same support and help as in today's primary school. A school start from the age of six had created a change for all six-year-olds in Sweden instead of only affecting the more than 2 per cent of six-year-olds who today do not attend preschool classes. I propose rejecting the proposal and secondary cases to reservations 1 and 2.
i-6e53488323257538-514	Madam President, I would like So today we are debating the UbU7 report, starting school at the age of six. I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. When I was a kid, it was called kindergarten, and there are still many who say kindergarten in a way. Then something happens; you catch yourself and change to preschool class. There has been a shift, and there is an awareness that the preschool class has a special position. The preschool class is part of the school but adapted to six-year-olds' learning. Here you will find the best from preschool, primary school and recreation centre. It is a transition, a bridge, between preschool and school with clarity in what the teaching should consider based on the curriculum and its objectives. Many testify to its importance and confirm that it is important for children to be trained at children's level where they themselves, from where they are, are allowed to govern when it happens. International comparisons also show that participation in pre-school pedagogy, both preschool and preschool class, has a positive impact on school results. Therefore, it is of great importance that we reach all six - year - olds and that they get an equal schooling. Madam President, I would like The preschool class is today a voluntary school form within the school system and was introduced on 1 January 1998. It covers all children residing in Sweden and must be offered from the autumn semester of the year they turn six. Students in today's preschool class have no obligation to attend the education but may be absent to a greater or lesser extent. As a result, they may lose a great deal of preparatory education, which may affect their prospects for further schooling. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics, just over 2 per cent of all six-year-olds do not participate in any school form at all. In ten years it is almost 20 000 who can miss the entire preparatory school year. The legislative amendments approved by the committee mean that the compulsory schooling requirement for children living in Sweden should start one year earlier than today, i.e. already the autumn semester of the calendar year when the child turns six. The compulsory schooling is thus extended by one year and will be ten years old, and it will be completed in the preschool class, which will become a compulsory school form within the school system. It is important to understand the value of the pedagogy that preschools work for, but also the value of the skills that our preschool teachers have about children's learning of lower ages. Pre-school education shall aim to stimulate the comprehensive development and learning of pupils. It should take its starting point in the students' needs and interests as well as in the skills and experiences that the students have previously acquired, but it should also continuously challenge the students further by inspiring new discoveries and knowledge. In teaching, students should be offered a variety of working methods, forms of expression and learning environments that promote the transition from preschool to school and recreation centres. In this way, pre-school education will contribute to continuity and progression in students' development and learning and prepare students for their further education. Those of you who listen may recognize you in various events that may occur in school. As a parent, I know that the teaching given to my son has helped to promote his imagination, empathy, and ability to learn with others through play, movement, and creation. It is through the game that you can process impressions, test different identities and develop creativity as well as the ability to both collaborate and communicate. Madam President, I would like The Alliance jointly rejects this proposal on the grounds that it does not believe that an obligatory for the preschool class will make a major difference to the early learning of the students compared to today. It is unfortunate that we do not see the value of the educational quality, importance and identity of the preschool class. The report highlights the high rate of change that the school has had for a relatively long time and that changes in the school sector must therefore be made with broad consensus and taking into account the ability of the principals and staff to have a reasonable degree of peace of mind. That is why we Social Democrats have landed in proposing that compulsory preschool class means that the school will have more opportunities to work long-term and consciously with the children's knowledge development. In order to achieve what the Riksdag has expressed in its announcements, the Government, in addition to the proposals in the proposal, has, among other things, in 2016 given the preschool class clear governance documents through completely new and comprehensive sections of the curriculum. They are constructed in the same way as the curricula for comprehensive school. Pre-school education should give students the opportunity to develop towards the knowledge requirements of comprehensive school. The Government also invests in continuing education for all pre-school class staff on the basis of the strengthened mission of the pre-school class so that the skills of both preschool teachers, teachers and other staff are taken into account. Another reform that would further strengthen the preschool class's educational assignments and students' right to support is the reading-write-count guarantee, which will soon be prepared in the Education Committee. In the preschool class, the analysis shall be done on the basis of national mapping material, and then on the basis of established procedures, it shall ensure that specific support is in place. Through the proposals in the bill School Starting at the age of six and the conclusions of the investigation and taking into account the above-mentioned reforms, we believe that Parliament's announcements of a ten-year primary school have been met. Of course, however, the effects of the reforms carried out by the government and now taking place should be closely monitored. But before the bourgeois parties condemn the pre-school class and pre-schoolers in advance, perhaps one should give the pre-school class and its staff time to work on the new conditions that this entails. Finally, Madam President, it is of course important that there is a broad political consensus that it should be mandatory for children in Sweden to go to school at the age of six, rather than today at the age of seven. It is also good if we agree that the education and knowledge perspective is clarified and strengthened, while learning should be based on a pedagogy that is adapted to the pupils' age and level of development so that students are better able to achieve the knowledge goals of the school. By now making the preschool class compulsory, 2 000 more children each year go to school. It is an important reform to give all children a good start on their knowledge journey. An equal knowledge school is based on the fact that the school is clear and compensatory.
i-6e53488323257538-537	Madam President, I would like I wonder how the Social Democrats think about the preschool class. All the evaluations made by the preschool class show that it is not a successful school form. The equivalence is flawed, and it is handled in very different ways. What I think is most serious is what the School Inspectorate says, namely that three out of four that were examined had no planning or follow-up of the educational activities. Most importantly, they did not have any educational cooperation either with the preschool that leaves the children or with the grade 1 teachers and primary school teachers who receive the students. If something is critical to the vast majority of children, it is just transitions. Then I wonder why one wants to keep another transition instead of minimizing it and making sure that primary school starts when the children are six years old. How do the Social Democrats view all this criticism, and why is it so important to keep the preschool class?
i-2UqoSEcQg8HMWFRZmC62tQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the questions. It is precisely on the basis of these reports, including the Swedish School Inspectorate's report, that we have made improvements. We want the preschool class to be curriculum-led, and we want you to have a clear mission. We are therefore making special efforts. We train our teachers and preschool teachers to meet the requirements of the new goals that have been set. I think the transition is important and interesting. As Maria Stockhaus said, transitions for both children and staff can be challenging. We who have visited a preschool know how it can be. You can wrestle with disinterest sometimes, you can meet with a closed door or with teachers who have too much to do and so on. However, I believe that the preschool class is by its very nature an important bridge between preschool, school and recreation centres. That is why we must work to facilitate the transition, and I believe that we do so by highlighting the educational role of the preschool class and its importance.
i-6e53488323257538-544	Madam President, I would like Roza acknowledged that the school has great challenges and that transitions can be such a challenge. I may think that the school has enough challenges as it is today. Now we have an opportunity to remove a challenge, that is, the transition between pre-school class and primary school. We can make the four years hang out and get the teachers to work together with the students' knowledge development instead of as it is today. It's a pretty big job with the isolated islands that many places are today and that hang between them and become neither. Unfortunately, for many six-year-olds, it is a great disappointment when they come to what they think should be a school and are met with something similar to the preschool they left – not because pre-school education does not belong there. It can belong higher up in primary school as well; it depends entirely on the students' development. But there is so much criticism of the preschool class as a phenomenon and as a separate school form. Here you have an opportunity to remove the challenge of transition. Why don't you want to do it?
i-6e53488323257538-547	Madam President, I would like We cannot run away from the problems by just removing them and doing something completely different. Nevertheless, we agree that it is important to have an obligatory and that the children should start school when they are six years old. But I would still like to say, as I said in my speech, that the preschool class and its pedagogy are adapted to the learning of the six-year-olds. For this very reason, I think it is important that we strengthen the opportunities for the preschool class to carry out their mission in the best possible way. By making the preschool class compulsory, we also give it a status in the other school activities and organisation. There are certainly voices saying that the preschool class is unnecessary, that it is not good or that it is not enough. But there is also a lot of research and profession that says that it is important that the preschool class can continue to develop and not be phased out.
i-6e53488323257538-550	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Roza Güclü Hedin for some clarifications linked to the bill now on the table of Parliament. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a few questions that are actually nagging in me and which I am really thinking about. It is important that we do not have too sweeping and generalising formulations. Roza Güclü Hedin says that we from the bourgeois parties would condemn the pre-school class. However, we have all stressed in our various speeches that we see that there is an amazingly good activity in many places but that it gives too little start to the important school that we would like to see by starting school at the age of six. Yesterday in Svenska Dagbladet, we were able to read an article written by a professor and two docents in special education. There they point out that they have just reviewed what Roza Güclü Hedin points out about what she calls the bridge between preschool and primary school. They point out a number of very problematic elements linked to the introduction of a one-year school form. I am very surprised to see this as an ideal. First you have a preschool that you could say is five years. Then you have your own school form that is one year old. Then comes nine-year primary school. Then perhaps a one - year form of school should be used to prepare the students to pass high school in the best way. It's about training to go to school. There's too much waiting culture in the preschool class. It worries me a lot. I was curious when Roza Güclü Hedin pointed out in the previous shift with Maria Stockhaus that there is a lot of research that shows the importance of having a preschool class and this very one-year school form. I would like to find out at which universities this research has been carried out.
i-6e53488323257538-556	Madam President, I would like There is a consensus of the bourgeois parties as regards the pre-school class. My view is that they actually fail the preschool class and its pedagogy. Why do they do that? Yes, they do so by actually putting forward proposals that in principle mean that pre-colleagues become unauthorized to teach six - year - olds, when there is a profession that says that this profession is an expert and knowledgeable at teaching to six - year - olds. The research to which I refer is, among other things, a researcher named Sven Persson at Malmö University, who points out that preschool education is very important. It is very important for the continued learning and the ability to achieve the required knowledge goals. But I'm still not getting this together and I have to ask you a question. You complain about the lack of equivalence of the preschool class and that it is not enough. But we will soon prepare the bill on the reading-write-count guarantee in the Education Committee. You're totally against that. How does this compare with the view of equivalence? Do you agree in the bourgeois parties? Do you want to work to ensure that active support can be put in place at the right time? Why then do you not want to proceed with the reading-write-count guarantee in preschool class?
i-6e53488323257538-559	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Roza Güclü Hedin for the question. In particular, the guarantee of action will be debated at a later date. I would therefore like to leave most of the question aside. But there we can once again see an example of a lack of faith in the profession of teachers. The profession of teachers is a very important part of being able to determine which pupils have special needs. That's why I get worried when the docenter in special education actually criticizes the pre-school class's structure and that it would not benefit children's learning. Then I find it difficult to see that yet another political reform would be a solution for these children and to make the preschool class equal. What exactly is pre-school education, other than for one year to practice and then start the regular school? I know that there are a lot of good activities out in different preschool classes. But there is also too much lack of quality in this part. Therefore, one could carry out a reform that is actually quite big, like school start at the age of six, and give all the students who will start school eventually the chance to get a really good school start. Nor is it entirely true that we would consider the inmates to be completely unauthorized. In fact, there is teacher training that actually provides skills linked to pre-school classes and the first few years. Thus, it is not at all the case that all those working in pre-school classes would be unskilled or unskilled to continue working in a ten-year primary school. In addition, validation is an important part and one also sees the various professional development efforts that I assume we will be fairly agreed on in the future. I see these elements as very important for strengthening the skills of early childhood learning. One thing we know is that, for example, the different keys to further learning are being captured early on. There, competence is extremely important. This is what we mean by the possibility of early support when you start primary school at the age of six, which means that you also get the right to special educational support that you may need in some cases.
i-6e53488323257538-564	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that we have a broad political consensus on this and that it should also be mandatory for children in Sweden to start school at the age of six. Making the preschool class compulsory means that 2 000 more children will have the opportunity to attend school. It is clear that we must also be constructive and self-critical. It is not enough to make the preschool class compulsory. At the same time, we must strengthen the educational mission. In order to do so, the government has carried out several reforms, and more are on the way. Therefore, I hope that we will reach an agreement on the reading-write-count guarantee, precisely so that you as a teacher can have the mandate to say to your Vice-Chancellor that you need special support for a child who has a certain need. We agree that all children should be better placed to achieve the knowledge goals. But I still believe that preschool class is a forum where preschool teachers can use the desire and creativity in a completely different way to meet the children, because all children are different. They are at different levels. It's about being able to meet a certain child who may not be quite ready to sit on the school bench yet, while another child is. It is very important to be able to meet these two individuals with the preschool class's pedagogy. That is why it is important that the preschool class also continues to develop. You must have a sense of peace and quiet in the preschool class and feel that you have the opportunity to carry out the task that you have. That is why it is important to strengthen pre-school education by making it compulsory.
i-6e53488323257538-568	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate some of the issues that involve us most: how do we give our children the best possible start on their schooling? How do we best meet the needs of our children? How do we provide the best opportunities and conditions for learning? These are big questions, which become absolutely vital to the children. We in the Green Party believe that we must use research to find the answers. Almost all children have a desire to start school. Learning to read and count and go to school is something special. But a six - year - old also needs the opportunity to vent his creativity and try his ideas through the game with others. Even at the age of six, being inserted into a fully scheduled structure, without opportunities for spontaneous activities, can be directly counterproductive. In the preschool class, children must establish knowledge, develop the ability to communicate with other children and learn the social rules, which are sometimes incomprehensible but which through the educational play become accessible and possible to understand. At present, all children who turn seven are under school obligation. Almost all six-year-olds are enrolled in preschool class; barely 2 per cent are not. Perhaps it is for them it is most important with preschool class – those who have never before been in a large group and will learn to communicate with other children for a long time. The preschool class is and should be a bridge between preschool and school: a smooth transition into the world of school. Children are trained here for entry into the first grade of comprehensive school. If we want an equal school, all children must be treated equally and have access to the preschool class. When research looks at how pupils manage their schooling, it can be seen that those who have not participated in the preschool class's approach to school have much more difficulty getting through the school system and often achieve worse results. With this in mind, it is important to give students the same conditions into school. A compulsory preschool class is a major step forward for children's learning. Madam President, I would like Nor is there any argument that earlier formalised schooling would be beneficial for children's learning – quite the contrary. When the government, not this one but the former, investigated the issue of flexible school start-up, Sven Persson, professor of pedagogy at Malmö University, was given a research overview of the knowledge about the appropriate age for school start-up. The study, SOU 2010:67, notes that 中 children who start school at a later age succeed better in school on all subjects except sports. This is particularly true for pupils from families where parents have a low level of education. Students who are older at school start are also examined to a greater extent from upper secondary school. The desire to allow children to participate prematurely in traditional education is also evident because an increase in formal education at an early age has a negative impact on pupils' performance. The importance of the game is another of the conclusions of the study: our research results are clear on one point; children who are early in stimulating learning environments with opportunities for interaction and play with peers, and with knowledgeable and interested adults have more opportunities to succeed in school than children who have not had access to these environments. ..................................................... Through the game, the child learns problem and conflict resolution and develops his or her communicative and verbal abilities. These positive effects are most evident in the age of six, when the child plays most, and then fades as the child grows older. Norway's experience of starting school at the age of six also provides guidance. The now 20 - year - old Reform 97 has not led to better school results, and researchers point out that six - year - olds receive too little preschool education. Madam President, I would like The conclusion is clear: If children are lured into formalised schooling too early, there is a risk that children's natural playfulness is suffocated and learning is inhibited. There is nothing to suggest that earlier formalised schooling would be particularly beneficial for children's learning. Participation in preschool classes, on the other hand, helps children to get the good start on their schooling as we all wish them. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-6e53488323257538-581	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Knutsson, for your speech. I have to say that I was very provoked in different ways, linked to what was said. Formalised learning is an important part. But when you paint it as that it is only the preschool teacher who has some insight into the importance of the game and about creativity, who would only be reserved for the preschool class's preschool teacher while the other teachers would work only with formalised learning, without any kind of creativity, I would like to ask if this is really Elisabet Knutsson's picture of how teachers' different professions are divided. This is my first question, which struck me when I wondered about stimulating learning environments for children. We all know that children are different; it has been emphasised by many in the debate that we are at different levels. The preschool class, which is still a year of its own, can be seen as some kind of bridge or preparation, and even there children are extremely different. This is what I have seen as the point of starting in grade 1 in the ten-year primary school: that you get the chance to start school and stand on the starting line together. Then children are different and need different activities. There are also children who long for what Elisabet Knutsson calls formalised learning and who are described as something that would inhibit creativity in different ways. I cannot see why what is described as a major step forward, when it becomes mandatory to start school for 2 000 children, should be called a soft transition to school. The school is painted as very difficult in different ways, so I would like Elisabet Knutsson to develop the different pictures somewhat.
i-6e53488323257538-586	Madam President, I would like What I want to stress is that the preschool teacher's profession is different from that of the primary school teacher. If I am a chemistry teacher, it is not forbidden for anyone else to talk about chemical processes, but perhaps I am the best at explaining them in essence. It is not said that no one else can do this, but the supervisors have a special profession through their education, with the pedagogy and creativity of the game, which they do not have in the primary school. My opinion is that it is very important that both professions are in the preschool class and taken seriously. Students who have an ability and a great desire to do more so-called school work should be given the opportunity, but those who are not quite ready for it and need other support in the class should be able to get it. That's what I mean is the big win with the preschool class. It's a little more flexible than a regular school. Otherwise, I do not understand why we are debating this, if it is exactly the same. The preschool class has a special place.
i-6e53488323257538-589	Madam President, I would like Some researchers feel that the preschool class has no self - worth. Anders Garpelin, Tina Hellblom-Thibblin-Thiblin and Gunilla Sandberg – professors of pedagogy, docents in special education – raises the problem that the preschool class really has no justification in terms of children's learning and the interruptions that too many school starts would give. We know that changing schools does not benefit students' learning very much, if they first start school once and then the school starts again. We are now discussing the best of worlds where everyone works together and uses each other's different competences. However, if we are to ensure equivalence, it is also about the basic system linked to children's learning that there are prerequisites for in a ten-year primary school. There is F – 3 teacher training where what I assume Elisabet Knutsson connects to is part of the creative way of working. It's not supposed to end at the age of seven. In many places, moreover, recreational educators are an extremely important resource linked to children's entire learning. We in the alliance parties highlight the four-year primary schooling and the construction of activities that really strengthen children's learning. It sounds a little bit at Elisabet Knutsson that it is a bit dangerous to start school and that a smooth transition is needed. At the same time, it is extremely important that children receive early support, challenges and the chance to develop and learn as much as possible.
i-6e53488323257538-593	Madam President, I would like We can see that the research is different. There are scientists who say that this is not very good and that it is fatal. Then there are researchers who say that they have tried this in Norway and that it gives nothing. In Finland, it has been decided that children should not start school until the age of seven. It is Finland that we are constantly referring to, that Finland has the very best school results. Finland allows children to start school at the age of seven. It is not forbidden to do challenging things in the preschool class, absolutely not, on the contrary. Is it somewhere that you can challenge the children is it precisely in the preschool class where you have creativity as a goal in life. Many of the students who attend preschool have not attended preschool before. The research has also concluded that those who start in preschool have more opportunity to move forward in the school system. You do not want 2 000 students in every year's litter who have not been given the opportunity to play the freer game, to communicate with other children and to socialise. The preschool class and pre-schoolers have a very important role to play. On the Swedish School Inspectorate's preschool day I visited a preschool in Malmö the other day. They said, "Keep the banner of the preschool class high!"
i-6e53488323257538-597	Madam President, I would like The preschool class is, as many have said before, a form of school that is different from the rest of the school and from the preschool. A compulsory preschool class therefore does not mean that comprehensive school needs to be ten years old. The Left Party is opposed to the Alliance's proposal for a ten-year primary school. We believe that a nine-year primary school together with a compulsory preschool class would be a better way to meet the children's and school's challenges. As has been said, the preschool class was introduced on 1 January 1998 as its own form of school in the public school system. The purpose of the introduction was according to the proposal Preschool class and other school law issues, among other things, to facilitate an operational integration between preschool and primary school where the best of the activities could be utilized and further developed. According to the School Act, the preschool class should stimulate the development and learning of pupils and prepare them for further education. The training shall be based on a holistic approach, from the pupil and the student's needs. The preschool class should promote comprehensive contacts and social community. According to Statistics of the National Agency for Education 2013 – 2014, 95 per cent of all six-year-olds were in preschool class. Approximately 1 per cent had started comprehensive school grade 1 already at the age of six, and about 1 per cent remained in preschool. This means that about 2 – 3 per cent of all six-year-olds did not participate in any of these activities. There are studies that indicate that children who have participated in preschool or preschool class activities perform better in school than children who have not. The results from PISA in 2009 showed that 15-year-olds from almost all OECD countries who had participated in some form of pre-school education – both pre-school and pre-school – had better results than those who had not participated. Despite the fact that almost all children participate in the preschool class, however, there is reason to make changes so that it becomes mandatory for all six-year-olds – this in order to create more equal, equal and better conditions for development and learning. Another strong and perhaps even more important reason for introducing pre-school classes is that it is made clear that the student has the right to knowledge and development, which in turn makes it clear that some students in need of special support will also get it better than today. Thus, teachers would have a much greater opportunity than they do today to deploy support, as has also been the result of the new laws on the pre-school class. I would like to comment further on the policy of the Alliance and, among other things, the Liberals. The government wants to help, but it doesn't. Christer Nylander mentioned that Grotesco is going to do a programme on this. But what is interesting in this case is that the Liberals themselves choose what they want and pick the best of what they consider correct. One could say that many parties do the same. Liberals want a nationalised school, but they want to keep profits in welfare. How would that make sense? I would like to appeal to Christer Nylander and the Liberals. When commenting on a bill or a bill, you should not have done what you accuse the others of. Furthermore, Christer Nylander mentions that it is sad that SD is falling into the trap because it is terrible to ensure that all students get equal opportunities by going to preschool class. The sad thing is rather the fact that the Alliance now expects SD as a right-wing party to always support it. Otherwise, I would like to add that the Teacher Association is very clear on this point. It has been clearly stated that although there are shortcomings in the preschool class today, the solution is not to ensure that students start in grade 1 and that the preschool class is abolished. They talk about making sure to have better transitions, increased access to special education and more time for planning. There are three of the examples highlighted. So do we in the Left Party. I support the committee's proposal.
i-6e53488323257538-611	Madam President, I would like I think it is a pity that the Swedish Democrats are voting with the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party. I am doing this not only because it is you who are behind the proposal, but because it is worse for Swedish children. They learn less, receive less support and will gain less knowledge, and they will be able to make fewer class trips. Social mobility is becoming smaller. That's why. Because I have an idea behind my policy. We will have more knowledge in Swedish schools and in Sweden as a whole. We will reduce the risk of parents' experiences gaining ground in children's school results. That's why I want an early school start, and that's why I think it's a shame that the Swedish Democrats are doing this. They had the chance to form a majority for a ten-year primary school with us, instead of forming a majority for a compulsory preschool class with you. State schools and free schools were raised. My idea behind a government headship is not to nationalize companies. I know it's an attractive idea for a left-wing party, but I'm thinking that the school's funding and municipal schools are going to go state-run. Free schools should be able to remain. Those are totally different things. Free school, however, receives money from the state rather than from the municipalities. I believe that the knowledge mission will become clearer in a school with state authority. I also believe that the conditions between different free schools will be more similar if one is given a single funder, in the form of the state, rather than having 290 different funders. I have listened very carefully to Daniel Riazat during the debate, and there is one thing I cannot understand. Can you give a single argument that it is better to have a compulsory preschool class?
i-6e53488323257538-616	Madam President, I would like The policies of Christer Nylander and the Liberals are in line with those of the Liberals and Christer Nylander. If research says that school segregation is increasing because of the free choice of school, the Liberals say: Yes! Now we're going to increase the free choice of school. If research says that the school is less equal because we have actors whose purpose is only to make profits in the school system, the Liberals say: Now we have to make sure that we strengthen the profit-making players. In this case, the research is curiously divided, but the Liberals still choose to go after certain parts of the research that has emerged. I can give examples of why it would be better. When students are going from ninth grade to secondary school or when they are going from sixth to seventh grade, they have problems with transitions. It can be assumed that when students are even younger, transitions become even more difficult. The preschool class thus becomes a natural transition for these children. They can get both the learning and the game there. Something that the Alliance has missed, or that it has chosen to miss, is that the preschool class is not just playing games. Preschool class is no longer called kindergarten. And it does not do that for a reason, namely because learning is also the focus. This can be done by playing games or by other forms of pedagogy that the teachers judge to be correct. I and the government have confidence that preschool teachers have the competence to develop their activities with the help of us.
i-6e53488323257538-621	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to understand the logic of the fact that transitions are difficult and that we should therefore have two transitions. That's really weird. Our proposal is that there should be a transition: from preschool to primary school. Your suggestion is to have two transitions: one from preschool to preschool class and one from preschool class to primary school. If the transitions are the problem, your proposal is a double problem and our proposal is a solution. Madam President, I would like I am very provoked by Daniel Riazats's speech, which I am sure was also the aim. I do not believe that there is a single person here in Parliament or in the gallery who wants increased divisions in Sweden. Above all, I don't want that. My commitment to Swedish politics and my ideological starting point is to reduce the gaps in Sweden. I want parents' background to play less of a role than it does today. This is at the heart of my commitment and that of liberalism. We want people not to be what they're born to be. We want people to be able to invent things they didn't know before. We want them to learn things they didn't know anything about. That's why the school is so central to Swedish liberalism and in my commitment. And that's why I love school. Because I want it to offer something other than what humans are born to. I do not want increased gaps, but I want greater social mobility and increased individualism. Fewer class trips are the effects of the policies that you pursue, and that reduces knowledge in Swedish schools. I'm personally being very provoked. But I think this is also a provocation against the entire Swedish parliament. No one here wants increased divides, Daniel Riazat.
i-6e53488323257538-626	Madam President, I would like I wish I could agree with that picture. Maybe I thought when I was 15 years old I started in Young Left in the picture that everyone had amazing intentions and wanted everyone well but that sometimes it went wrong in the thought. During my three years in the Riksdag and also in my previous years as a political member of the Left Party, I have noticed that things do not happen by chance. Because of the ideologies that we have, society either goes forward or backwards. During the eight years when Christer Nylander's party leader sat as Minister of Education, the Swedish school went backwards. It went backwards in that way that segregation increased, that teachers' influence in school decreased and that more and more people chose to stop working in the Swedish school, precisely because of the politics that Christer Nylander's party conducted and the ideas that he presents. The fact that Christer Nylander is provoked by the ideas of equality and equivalence that I and the other red-green parties represent is no wonder at all. If the idea of liberalism is that we should have a society with smaller divisions, I must have completely misunderstood it when I studied political science at Dalarna University, and I do not think I misunderstood it. The whole basis of liberalism's policy is that all people should fend for themselves and that the conditions should not be at all equal, but that people should create the conditions that they manage to create themselves. That is what right-wing and liberalism are all about. Let me return to this matter. I think the children need a strengthened preschool class, not an abolished preschool class. This requires that we do not vote for a new alliance government next year.
i-6e53488323257538-632	Madam President, I would like We have national tests in Sweden for several reasons. The main reasons for me and the Moderates are that they give equal and more fair grades. They provide a good basis so that we at the national level can compare and look at the principals, municipalities, and be able to collect the knowledge that this gives us. During previous terms of office, it was the Alliance that introduced more national tests, especially in grade 3. We have now also received confirmation of and see the positive effects of what this has brought. Above all, we have seen that the acquisition of knowledge by national tests is a major addition to the municipalities, the principals. This allows local politicians to stand on their toes and act to a greater extent when they notice that students and perhaps entire school units are falling behind. They can then act as required. I think it's good that we have today's bill. I am also pleased that we have a minister in place who will take part in the debate. I am pleased that we and today's government parties were able to agree in 2015 on the rating system and to review the content of national tests, increase digitalisation and review the purpose of the national tests. This is good, and large parts of the government's bill are also very good. In the Alliance and the Moderates we have made some additions and some clarifications. I would like to highlight two of them in particular. The most important thing now and forward for the national tests is to develop the content of them, to change them so that the national tests better test the goals contained in the course and subject plans and that they can be compared with each other over time, so that we can see the development of knowledge and how it changes over time in a better way. We also want the national tests to be moved from grade 9 to year 8. There are several reasons for that. Above all, we should not lose sight of the fact that the national tests take a lot of time. It takes a lot of time for students and teachers to correct and organise national tests. It also provides increased stress and pressure for many students. Therefore, we think it would be better to have the national tests in grade 8 instead, especially because it would bring greater benefit to the students themselves. Then you still have one year left in comprehensive school and have the time and opportunity to start in the national exams to know what you need to focus extra on the last year of comprehensive school. Unfortunately, this benefit for students does not fill the national exams properly today. Another suggestion that we have, precisely in view of the workload of teachers linked to national tests, is to test in a trial activity to introduce external correction of the national tests. It is certainly not a lack of trust in the profession, on the contrary. Teachers should continue to be the graders, and we all agree on that. I think that this bill shows that the national tests will never be able to measure all the goals and knowledge that a student should be judged against, but the overall picture must, should and can our teachers provide. But to correct the national tests externally, we still believe, would mean a relief for our teachers, so that they can spend more time in the classroom with the students. So, in order to test this, we propose it as a trial. I am proud and happy that we can present it in that form. We should probably more often dare to use a trial procedure in Swedish schools and not be so hard-core that all our proposals are always so accurate that we can introduce them everywhere at the same time. With those words, I would like to endorse two of our reservations, namely Nos 6 and 7.
i-6e53488323257538-640	Madam President, I would like We naturally agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3 in paragraph 4. Now it's about digital national tests, with emphasis on digital. It is precisely digitalisation that can make it easier for my colleagues out there. From the beginning, the Swedish Democrats chose to support the Alliance's announcement on the matter a while ago – not that it would have been like SD's proposal, but we forced the government to reconsider its SOU on the matter. As the middle party we are, Madam President, with the welfare of small businesses and the welfare of small businesses, we are very pragmatic. Our policy is based on the grass roots and based on facts and knowledge, not just ideological whims. The government has now released a bill on the digital national test case. After careful reading of the same, I can say that, of course, it does not meet all the demands we have, Madam President, but it is definitely a step in the right direction. National digital tests should be more externally assessed. There is also more to be desired, for example that it would be central correction, which would remove the burden from the teachers. I just heard the Moderates say the same thing as us. It is strange that they do not support our proposal. We will also change the grade for the tests, but not only from grade 9 to 8, but we will change everything. Instead of grades 3, 6 and 9, which we have the tests in now, we will have them in 2, 5 and 8. It gives a completely different time for teachers and students to work in the field where something is missing. The tests must also be the same from year to year, Madam President. They're not now. For this reason, they cannot be good comparison tools either. We also need anchor data, data that are recurring from year to year – in this way we can use the national samples as a comparison tool for real. This would have been something to really strive for, and it is also something we are pressing for from the Swedish Democrats. But in order to facilitate everyday life for my colleagues, so that they can devote themselves to teaching instead of time-consuming correction of national tests, we choose to support the proposal. The Swedish Government Anna Ekström, who, unlike her colleague, has made it here, which is very nice to see, is a wise minister who has been the head of the Swedish National Agency for Education and has enough insight, Madam President, into how important long-term it is. That is why I hope that this is the first step in something that we at school can move forward in, so that we can use the national tests in a completely different way than we do today. I can make a concrete proposal on how we could work in the future in a completely different way, Madam President. The parliamentary sittings where all parties are allowed to attend from day one, such as the School Commission, the High School Investigation and the Authority Investigation, are usually more likely to go through here in the Riksdag. If all parties had sat before discussing digital national tests, we would probably have come up with a better solution than we have today. These are two steps in the right direction, but I am absolutely convinced that with a common vision we could have taken steps three and four as well. This is a way that I propose that we should work on more in the future, especially when it comes to such important things that affect the school so much. I have a request for the government to sit here. I know she's listening. Here's the hand from the Swedish Democrats! I hope the other parties have the same attitude. We should sit down early and discuss things, so that we get a long-term perspective in the Swedish school system. The Alliance may make its decision on the matter, but as a wave master we take our responsibility. This is important to implement today. Rather a step in the right direction and then an improvement on the proposal than the battle that we sometimes engage in, Madam President. No matter how long or short you should run, all distances begin with one or two steps. This is one or two steps in the right direction. The Swedish democrats are elected by the people, are pragmatic and are for the people. Now we make sure to change this school with the small steps, so that we get in the right direction.
i-6e53488323257538-652	Madam President, I would like The national tests I think give birth to many different thoughts in us. As a former teacher, I have corrected a number of them. It's about the joy of seeing students doing great well linked to the goals to be achieved, but also about the possibility of relatively early discovering what you need to work with more. The Alliance has jointly written a follow-up motion, and the Center Party has some views on the bill, but it is still that we largely have the same idea of how to use the national tests. An important part that we have highlighted from the alliance parties is about how we can ensure that students with different types of special needs have equal opportunities to conduct the national tests in a good way. It may be that you are in need of special aids or have some form of disability. I know that question is very difficult. I have great respect for the fact that the school authorities will address this issue in order to give all pupils equal opportunities to demonstrate their knowledge in the best possible way. It's not just about more time. It can also involve purely technical means in different ways. It is not someone who thinks that you should not wear glasses, for example, when you are going to do a national test. There may be other tools that one would need to do well. Another important part of the bill is digitalisation and correction. From the Center Party we have been pushing for relatively many years for the digitisation of the national tests but also for what we call external correction. Although you as a teacher are extremely curious and take on the correction of national tests with great commitment, it is an extremely time-consuming task. It is also a task that, depending on the proximity to the students, does not really make the assessment that one would make from a more equal point of view. We know that when co-assessed in different ways, it facilitates the equivalent assessment. We believe that in various ways there needs to be a discharge of tasks in order for teachers to be able to devote themselves to teaching. Then external correction could be such an important part. Criticism has been expressed of the proposal that the results of the national tests should be taken into account in particular in grading. From what I understand, it is understood from different sides that it may be partly due to misunderstandings or that you interpret it in a slightly different way. I don't think anyone understands that it's one of the bases for the whole thing. That is why, in our follow-up motion, we in the alliance parties have highlighted the importance of being clear in communication with teachers and talking about what is meant by this. We in the alliance parties also highlight the importance of systematic quality work in order to ensure an equivalent correction. With regard to the various reservations, I would like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of reservations 6 and 7, although we naturally support all the reservations contained in the report. Nevertheless, I would like to raise reservation 4 of the Center Party, where we are discussing how the tests could be carried out continuously throughout the year. It was brought to the fore from some other parties that other grades were discussed. There should be an opening in discussions as to how the national tests are used for the different purposes that exist. They are, of course, used to monitor the results of knowledge. But they should also be able to be something you use so that it becomes in a really good way. To sum up, it is extremely important that we ensure that all those who do the national tests receive any aids that they need for some form of disability, for example. We see digitalisation as extremely positive. We want to work more for external correction. We think that we need to clarify how we believe that the results should also be taken into account when grading.
i-6e53488323257538-662	Madam President, I would like The Government proposes in proposal 2017/ 18:14 that the national tests should be given greater weight when grading and that they should be digitised. The Left Party agrees that there should be tools to check that the student has reached the level of knowledge required to be able to proceed in his or her studies. However, neither national tests nor grades provide sufficient in-depth information. The new national tests are just the tip of the wave of tasks that has washed over teachers in recent years. Many teachers testify that they do not have time for other things at the end of the semester. Regular teaching is allowed to stand back, and tests risk reducing pupils' skills rather than increasing them. Teachers need time to do what they are trained to do, that is, to teach. To give greater weight to national tests in grading does not solve the structural problems that exist in school either. The need for more control and control is a symptom of the market-liberal school system we have in today's Sweden. Profit-driven free schools establish themselves where they have the best market prospects, in other words usually in areas where the population has a high level of education and good income. In addition, these schools have an interest in driving up pupils' grades and results on national exams with the hope of attracting more students, which in turn leads to grade inflation and increased segregation. This showed, among other things, the report Differences in performance between upper secondary school pupils in independent and municipal schools(2016:10) from IFAU, Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation. It cannot be dismissed as left propaganda. They compared results from internal correction in schools with external correction by the Swedish School Inspectorate and found that independent schools were much more generous in their correction. The Left Party therefore supports the proposal for an extended external correction. At the same time, we want to be careful to say that all national tests mean increased stress and workload for both teachers and students without bringing any significant improvement in teaching. Rather, they take valuable teaching time, as I mentioned earlier. The problems of equivalence in the Swedish school are solved by having a more equal school system, a school system without market interests where the student's choice is not decisive for how well the student can or may not go in. The Swedish Parliament should therefore reject the Government's proposal that results on national tests should be taken into account when grading. In order to achieve this, I would also like to endorse the Left Party's reservation No 1. The proposals in the bill are also a selection of the proposals contained in the previous state inquiry Equivalent, legally secure and effective – a new national knowledge assessment system (SOU 2416:25). The study proposed the need to reduce the number of national tests. This is a view shared by the Left Party. It is a well-known fact that many teachers have fled the teaching profession in recent years due to increased administration and reduced influence on the work situation. This would hardly lead to an improvement. The now large number of national tests is part of this. As I mentioned earlier, there must, of course, be tools for assessing students' skills. At the same time, however, these assessments must support learning and should therefore be forward-looking and formative. Grades and national tests are summarising assessments; that is, they measure performance and provide no information on how learning should develop. Possibly, national tests can make more use of them as a tool for evaluating teaching. There is therefore little need for attention to be paid to the performance of the individual students, and the tests could be depersonalised or anonymised. Our conclusion, therefore, is that the national tests must be used very sparingly. Basically, we want to go further than the investigation I mentioned earlier. Nevertheless, we believe that parts of the investigation's proposals are a good first step. The government should make the constitutional changes proposed by the investigation regarding the number of national trials. The bill proposes that parts of the national tests should be digitised in 2018. The Ombudsman for Children warns that the various economic conditions in schools may affect the results of national tests if these are today digitised. When not all schools have the same access to modern technology or teachers with digital skills, it can mean that which school students attend has a direct influence on whether or not there is access to computers and thus also how the skills are in the different schools, which will affect the results. For the Left Party, the need for computer skills and digital competence of teachers and students has long been a cane horse. As early as 1989 we wrote the first exercise that teachers need to be given the opportunity for further training in computer literacy. We therefore agree with the opinion of several consultation bodies that time is needed for teachers to be educated for digitalisation, not in connection with digitalisation. The government should therefore wait until autumn 2019 to digitise the national tests, says the Left Party. Of course, I support all the Left Party reservations, but I only support reservation 1.
i-6e53488323257538-680	Madam President, I would like If you want to reduce the gaps in a society and create equal opportunities for all people, you should have a very clear knowledge focus in school. If you also want to follow up on how each student gets as much knowledge as possible, check if they are with or need extra support, you sometimes also have to evaluate it. The very foundation of the knowledge school is that you have a clear focus on knowledge and ensure that everyone gets the knowledge they want. That's how you even out social differences. That is how it makes it more class trips, increases social mobility and creates a more equal and fair society. Madam President, I would like National tests are important. I would say that particularly important is probably the national test in grade 3, if it is used properly. It is particularly important to deploy support as early as possible in Swedish schools so that more people learn more. I think that is how it is, Madam President, that it reduces the risk that parents' background will also be reflected in pupils' school results. As has been said earlier, we in the Alliance are quite satisfied with the government's proposal in this area. We feel that some important issues are being addressed. Perhaps we should see that there was a broader holistic approach to the issues. What Ulrika Carlsson mentioned earlier about aids for disability I think is very important to think about. I think you can think more about how the tests can be better, how to develop them so that they become more accurate and give an overall picture of the knowledge you have relative to the knowledge requirements that exist when you do the tests. It would be exciting to be able to properly compare the national test results over time. We see how important international studies such as PISA and Timss have been for the image of Swedish school, for the knowledge of Swedish school and for the efforts around Swedish school. National tests could also give a clearer picture of several substances and follow-up year after year. We would need to think more about how to digitise and facilitate the correction. It is not quite easy in all the parts of the tests, but in some it would be possible to do quite quickly and easily. We would have to think about the view of a lot of attention. National tests are carried out at different times over the years. If I remember correctly, the math exam comes very close to the time when the grades are set, while the parts of the exam in Swedish come quite far from the time when you put the final grade. Then it is clear that you can have a different view of what a particular consideration is. It is important to evaluate and follow up how the concept of special attention is given to schools, to be prepared to clarify and to ask the Swedish National Agency for Education to be careful to have guidelines for this. It is also important that we consider over time how practices are put into particular consideration, because how it is interpreted and how it is put into the context of different subjects is of course quite crucial for how this bill lands in reality. The Alliance and we Liberals have a number of reservations. For a number of reasons, we would like to see greater external correction, both in order to increase equivalence and in order to reduce administrative burdens. This would mean that more teachers could spend more time teaching. We also have a reservation on how to develop the ability of the national tests to provide an overall picture of the student's knowledge mass in relation to the knowledge requirements that exist. Madam President, I would like I would just like to express my support for reservations 6 and 7 in the report.
i-6e53488323257538-690	Madam President, I would like It was so fun in the last debate, so I will continue in this. My question to Christer Nylander and the Liberals concerns the perception of grades, tests and, in this case, the national tests. In what way does Christer Nylander mean that tests and grades, in this case national tests, and further disqualification of power from teachers to national tests, which are really just a sample, develop students in the Swedish school? In what way does it stimulate students to continue learning? I also wonder how many national tests Liberals really want because, as we know, Liberals tend to go quite often against the research that exists on school issues in terms of both grading and the number of tests and whether to have formal or summative assessment. What exactly is the policy of the Liberals regarding the number of tests? What would it look like if Christer Nylander were to decide?
i-6e53488323257538-694	Madam President, I would like The essence of my message was that if you're going to give a good start for the children who come from home where you don't read much, homes where you are not really involved in school or homes that are broken socially, the school must have very high expectations and prioritise knowledge. It is for these very children that the school does not provide social mobility, freedom and independence unless you have a very clear focus on knowledge. That's why the Liberals stand up for the school of knowledge. Daniel Riazat would like to believe that the Liberals are some mean people who want to sort out people who don't fit into the society that we have as a vision. But the difference between socialists, communists and liberals is that we have no utopia. Our utopia is the sum of individual people's dreams of the future. I want more people to dream about the future, and it's easier to dream if you have knowledge of what opportunities there are. That is why I have a complete focus on knowledge in Swedish school. That's why the Liberals run schools of knowledge. That is why liberals have always been involved in school. We like it when people succeed, and we want more people to succeed. Then you have to focus on knowledge in school but sometimes also dare to evaluate how well it goes, because if you do not evaluate, those who do not have expectations from home, pressure from parents and demands from outside will fail and gain less knowledge, Daniel Riazat. It's not a friendly society for me. It is a society that is widening the gap. That's why I focus on the knowledge school.
i-6e53488323257538-697	Madam President, I would like I note that the Liberals have no utopia but, after all, have a utopia. I also note that the Liberals want to reduce the gaps but that the policy leads to increased gaps. Dreaming is very important, and many young people had their dreams crushed during the time Jan Björklund sat as Minister of Education. Let's be clear about that. Possibly, the Liberals and Christer Nylander represent the Knowledge School in the form of the company Knowledge School, but hardly when it comes to the Knowledge School in the form of a school where all students have an equal and equal opportunity to participate in the teaching. I also note that Christer Nylander used four seconds to talk about the tests and the remaining time to talk about other things, and I know why. This is because the research is quite clear when it comes to early grades, grade and grade inflation, when it comes to too many tests and when it comes to assessment. Research runs counter to the Liberals' line on these issues. No, I don't think you're mean. However, I believe that the ideology that you stand for leads to people getting hurt. No matter what terms Christer Nylander chooses to use as rhetorical tricks, to mention communism etcetera, it is still a fact that the Left Party wants to work for an equal and equal school. There I believe that the solution to ensure that one can dream is not to take away the teachers' additional power and give more and more power to, among other things, the national tests. This is what happens when the grades on the national exams become more crucial to the final grades in school. We in the Left Party want to counter this, of course.
i-6e53488323257538-703	Madam President, I would like I don't want to take away the teachers' power. In fact, my party is probably the party that has the most teachers in relation to the number of members. This is partly because we have many teachers and partly because we have few members. We are sometimes called the People's Peer Party, and I am quite proud of that. It was people who wanted to build a different society and started a party because they wanted more people to get the chance. It is right that we do not have any utopia, as some other ideologies have, but our utopia is the sum of many individual utopias. That's why I can't describe it. The essence of that is that I want more people to succeed. I want one to be able to realize one's dreams, and that is why we focus on knowledge school and knowledge in school. That is why we are trying to strengthen the ability of teachers to carry out the teaching they are trained to carry out. I'll answer the question. We like national tests. We like grades. We want the national tests that we have today. Especially important is the national test in grade 3, and it should be linked to increased support and increased chances of succeeding later in school. If we do not evaluate how much students learn and how much knowledge they bring with them, we do not know who will succeed. The essence of my ideology and my view of Swedish school is that we must have a clear focus on knowledge. If you do not, they will suffer the hardest, whose parents themselves do not have a long education, whose parents do not focus on knowledge, whose parents do not ask how school went today and those who do not have parents at all. That's why I focus on knowledge in school.
i-6e53488323257538-706	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing the national tests. For several years, the Christian Democrats have been pushing for the issue of digitising national tests and that the grades should reflect the results of the national tests to a greater extent than now. However, it is important to establish at this stage that it will continue to be possible to obtain a final grade other than the grade, but that the grades must be more consistent with the results of the national tests. This is important not least to counteract grade inflation, which is a real problem in school. Madam President, I would like Since 2015, the Alliance has agreed with the Government to review the scope, impact and purpose of the national tests with the aim of moving more towards digitalisation and central correction. Through this bill, we are a little bit on the way in this agreement. We now agree that we should move towards the digitisation of the national tests and that the national tests should be taken into account when grading, but the Alliance lacks clarity about the correction of the national tests. Until now, it has usually been the teaching teacher himself who corrects the national exams. The school inspectorate has carried out a certain central correction of national tests for comprehensive school and upper secondary school, whereby the re-examination of the tests has shown that there are major differences in the assessment of, for example, essays. The differences are greatest where the teacher's assessment space is large. Schools' own teachers often give a higher grade to the exams than the registrars do. Even the reverse may occur, but it is not as common. The differences are all over the grade scale but are most common when it comes to the high grade. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that it is important to increase equivalence in the assessment of the national tests, and therefore, in the long term, all the tests should be corrected by national examiners. Madam President, I would like In this proposal, the Government is opposed to what has already been decided by the Riksdag. There are announcements that the tests will be digital and corrected by external national examiners. The argument put forward by the government is that central correction would undermine trust in the teaching staff. That argument does not hold. The main aim of the tests is to support an equal and fair assessment, and then it is only an advantage that it is a teacher who has no connection whatsoever with the student in question who assesses the tests. The proposal proposes that someone other than the teacher should correct the tests, but this is not far enough, we believe. Those of us who have experience in the conduct of national tests know how much time is spent on both implementation and correction and how it can be used to control teaching, especially in grade 9. The proposal puts forward the argument that central correction would add to the teacher shortage. It's just the opposite. When national tests are to be corrected, it takes so much time that many schools put in unauthorised substitutes for weeks to allow teachers to sit separately or on teams to correct the tests. It is also common for students to get time off or work at home instead of teaching for teachers to correct the extensive tests. Instead, if national external examiners correct the exams, a lot of time will be released for high-quality teaching. We in the Alliance therefore maintain that the government will return to the Riksdag with a proposal for a trial with centrally corrected tests corrected by national examiners. If the experimental activities are successful, this should be introduced in all schools. Madam President, I would like In our follow-up motion from the Alliance, we address the need to develop the national tests. The content and role of the tests will be developed in order to provide a better and more accurate overall picture of the student's overall knowledge. It is also important to curb by all means the cheating that has become more common in the conduct of the tests. The National Agency for Education should feel that they have the necessary mandate to make it impossible to cheat. Furthermore, as several have been involved, pupils with different disabilities can receive special support in the national tests. We therefore want the Swedish National Agency for Education to be given the task of monitoring that students who need to be given the means to which they are entitled to carry out the tests. With this, I would like to endorse reservations 6 and 7.
i-6e53488323257538-715	Madam President, I would like We are debating the UbU5 report today, national tests – fair, equal and digital. It is a report that proposes that national tests should be taken into account in particular when grading. There are also proposals for national examinations to be assessed by someone other than the teacher, for such pupil solutions to be de-identified, for national examinations and assessment support to be digitised and for essays and other tasks to be carried out in writing to be carried out on a computer. These are proposals, Madam President, which have been discussed for a long time and which, with the approval of the House today, will be able to enter into force on 29 June 2018. Madam President, I would like As Minister Anna Ekström participates in the debate, I will be relatively brief. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to reflect on the objections raised that the test will be too decisive and that the day-form will govern the grade rather than the teacher's ability to make an overall assessment. That is not the intention. That is not how the proposal should be interpreted. But grade inflation must be curbed. Teachers need to feel support against the forces that push for higher grades, and the Swedish School Inspectorate needs clearer assignments to be able to go in and review and take action in case of recurring and significant deviations. There are probably a number of reasons why the rate inflation exists and that it does not subside but, on the contrary, both persists and perhaps increases. Attracting many students to their school has become important. It immediately affects the revenue from the school money that the student has brought with him. High grades attract more students than the opposite. To get students to stay, teachers can be subjected to extensive pressure from students, teachers and principals alike. This is something that has been highlighted on a number of occasions. In addition, it is recognised that teachers tend to judge their own students more positively. Whatever the reason for grading inflation, we must bring about a change. I would like to add that grades are basically not to be regarded as the height of justice. Somewhere the limit should be drawn whether it's 1 – 5, whether it's G, VG or MVG or it's A – F. But the rating must be as fair and as relevant as it can be. Madam President, I would like The national tests are assessments of the student's achievement in relation to the knowledge goals available for grades 3, 6 and 9 in order to ensure the equivalence of the grade. This is the fundamental principle of the design and use of national tests. But it is a principle that I note that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats not only question but apparently have abandoned. Assessing how students are doing during the current academic years, what can be stimulated extra, and what is lacking among different students in different subjects is at the heart of the teacher's profession. To know the knowledge goals, to know your students and to encourage them to develop as much as possible is the teacher's daily and long-term task. Madam President, I would like That someone else should correct the national tests is welcome. In some places this is already happening today. In my municipality of residence Kalmar, the municipality's teachers have for a long time been given the opportunity to apply to be part of a small group that centrally corrects all the municipality's national exams. Teachers who correct the tests are given a substitute for their regular teaching and are given the opportunity to develop with other tasks for a limited period of time. They see patterns and can draw conclusions. In particular, the tests are corrected equally. I think it is a wise and responsible way from the principal to take advantage of the teacher's competence and to ensure the student's right to objective assessment. However, I have a little question that the tests should be sent off nationally and that the authority should employ teachers nationally to correct all Sweden's national exams. With the knowledge I have and with the perspective I also think I have it feels like poor resource use and administrative complexity. In addition, the national so-called examiners, as has been mentioned here in the speaker's chair, should well be competent teachers. Then it is likely to be a tap in that competence in regular school, if not in the long term then at least temporarily. Digitalisation is only to be welcomed, while respecting the need to ensure equivalence across the country and the safety of the test situation. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in UbU5 as a whole and reject all reservations.
i-6e53488323257538-727	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for many fine contributions to this debate on the proposal. The proposal that we are now discussing includes a proposal for a legislative amendment that the results of national tests should be taken into account in particular when grading. However, we are also talking about a number of amendments and mandates to the regulation. They include digitising the national tests, assessing student solutions of the tests by someone other than the teacher, and not least the anonymisation of the tests. Let's start with digitalisation. It's actually a huge question. Finally, we digitise the national tests. This is a big and important step. One could be proud and say that it is a step into the future. But it's really about a step into the present time for the Swedish school. Digitisation can reduce the workload of teachers. It can improve the efficiency of work at school. I feel no sentimentality whatsoever when I think of teachers not having to sit and interpret crow's feet and different handwritings. The future, the labour market, the further studies and the society to which students are to come is a digitalised world. That is why the most important thing when we are now digitising the national tests is that students are allowed to do their best on the national tests. They are allowed to use the tools and methods they usually use, which they use when studying and which they will use as adults when they come out of today's school. It is time for the school to catch up with the rest of society. The ambition and goals are clear. However, as has been said in the debate, not least by Daniel Riazat, it is no small or simple matter to digitise the national tests. Just imagine the variety of IT solutions available at our many and different schools. Just imagine the different amounts of years these IT solutions have on their necks. Think also of how incredibly important it will be that the IT systems work blamelessly when the national tests are to be written. All of us who have been at workplaces where IT is used know that IT systems do not always work exactly as they should. So this will be a big and difficult task, for our many schools and for the National Board of Education. But it is also an important task. The purpose of the national tests is ultimately for students to show what they can do. And that's what students do best in a digitalized environment. The bill also proposes a number of important changes for greater fairness and equivalence. I am thinking of the statistics that we, who are interested in the issue of national tests, took note of at the end of October. It's about the relationship between national exams and course grades. Of course, I was particularly interested in the statistics on tests conducted in upper secondary school. I am both concerned and even horrified, but unfortunately not surprised when I take note of those statistics. As we all know, there is a discrepancy between the results of the national tests and the course grades which are then given. That deviation is all over the line. However, in the case of independent schools, it is even greater than the deviation of municipal schools. Then we all know, as has also been pointed out in the debate, that there is also a slight difference in the fact that the independent schools correct the national tests a little more generously. The fact that a student's grades do not correspond to the student's knowledge need not be a consequence of a difference between the results of national examinations and course grades. Today, we do not have a regulatory framework that says that there should be a link between them. But we can all agree that it is not good when students' grades do not correspond to the knowledge that students bring with them. We'll have order in our school. And that order and already depends on there being a solid trust that grades and knowledge are interrelated. The many reports and testimonies that have come from teachers, students and others, not least the statistics that exist, clearly show that we need to stagnate, control and counteract so that grade inflation does not get a grip in Swedish school. It should be fair, and it should be equal – for the students' sake but also for the school to function effectively. Students' grades are important to who gets into the courses at the university. This calls for trust in the system, for everyone to have confidence in and trust that the grades are correctly set. Therefore, the proposals for changes on the table of the Riksdag in the bill on national tests, which we are now discussing, are important and will be of great importance. We suggest that the results of the national tests should be taken into account in particular when grading. I am, of course, very pleased that this proposal has received such strong support here in Parliament. As several members, not least Lena Hallengren, have pointed out, care should be taken to ensure that the wording We do not propose exams in the Swedish school. However, the wording makes it clear that the test results and the content of the pupils' responses to the tests will continue to support the grading. According to the curricula for the school forms involved, the teacher should use all available information about the student's knowledge in relation to the national knowledge requirements. And the teacher will make a comprehensive assessment of these skills. I am convinced that the vast majority of teachers in Sweden are already making a comprehensive assessment of everything the student can and takes into account the results and how the student has performed on national tests. For all those teachers, this bill means that they can continue their good work. But for those teachers who have allowed the results of national tests to steer the grades completely, and for those teachers who have completely ignored the results of the national tests, this change in law means a change, a clarification. For the many teachers who experience a strong and unpleasant pressure to put higher grades than they think the students' knowledge corresponds to, mine and our proposal will give a bit of rye in their backs to resist this pressure and the market forces that characterise the Swedish school. With the new wording in the School Act, the School Inspectorate can also, as several have pointed out, have a little more opportunity to review those schools where the deviations between test results and grades are particularly large. Madam President, I would like There have been proposals in a number of motions dealing with the need for what is called central correction and independent examiners. I am, of course, pleased that there are more than me who see the problems of an overly market-driven school system, with strong inflationary pressures, which have led to grading inflation and shortcomings in equivalence. There's a grade agreement between the government and the Alliance. We set up the investigation that forms the basis of the bill. This investigation, which was very thorough and had access to the very best expertise, advised against all forms of so-called central correction, i.e. by other than teachers. Rather, it advocated what is also included in the bill: external assessment, where a pupil solution is assessed or corrected by someone other than the teacher who teaches the student. I may be traditional and a bit boring and boring, but my firm opinion – which is in line with good Swedish administrative policy tradition – is that politics should give the vision and direction and that the proposals should be prepared and tested in a robust state inquiry. Here we have had the privilege of getting the results of a large state inquiry, which clearly shows that the proposal put on the table by the government is the proposal that is best in line with how we are going to achieve this objective. When the investigation advises against introducing a central correction, we will instead proceed with an external assessment. My opinion and that of the government is that this is certainly preferable. I guess a lot of lines are requested, so I think I'm waiting for the replica shifts with the very detailed and wise additional argumentation that I have in front of me on why it's wise to go the way that we want to go with external correction or correction by someone other than the teaching teacher. We're supposed to have some fun there too! I would like to conclude by thanking you very much for a very interesting discussion. I would also like to thank you for giving me the privilege of being involved in discussing the proposal that I have been working on for a whole year and that I feel very strongly about.
i-6e53488323257538-752	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank the Government for being in the Chamber today. I myself am a little surprised at how much of what the Government said here that I agree with. Of course, I'm very happy about that – I don't think these issues should really be those where we have very different opinions. I think it is important for Swedish school, for the teachers, for our principals and for the students that we have rules and frameworks that do not change too much over time. It is important that the rules of the game are clear and firm. For example, when you change the meaning of something – if we look at the wording, especially taking into account, which has been discussed for quite some time and a lot in the run-up to this decision – I think it is particularly important that we agree. Actually, I just want to make a delivery. We will of course monitor from moderate quarters and from the Alliance how schools are informed by the Swedish National Agency for Education on this issue, so that it is implemented equally and in the way that is intended. That's the one thing I want to send along. I would also like to say briefly that, when we talk about external examinations, we do not think that there needs to be any other than teachers doing these. Lena Hallengren said that it can be handled at the main level in 290 municipalities, performed by teachers who do it together in groups. However, it could be done in the same way but in a national place and still by teachers. It does not have to be people who do only this full - time, but it can be people who also teach. I also have one question: how does the Government view moving national tests from ninth to eighth grade?
i-6e53488323257538-759	Madam President, I would like As far as the expression is concerned, I have noted that in several cases it has been suggested from the bourgeois side that the Riksdag or the Government should take the initiative to the Swedish National Agency for Education to carry out some kind of information work. The Swedish National Agency for Education is an authority that has an independent mission to ensure that there are good and good development opportunities for Swedish schools. I am convinced that the Swedish National Agency for Education will also be able to fulfil the perfectly natural and obvious part that it means to inform the country's teachers about how governance documents, laws and the like can be taken into account in teaching. Ida Drougge also talks about various possibilities to arrange some form of external correction. I think it sounds spontaneous that the description given by Ida Drougge is very well in line with how one can work in the spirit and meaning of this bill, although it is, of course, up to the principals to make their interpretation of the law. What I object to when we discuss central correction is the belief that there is a cadre – a group – of well-trained, knowledgeable and experienced teachers. This must be the case if teaching and rating teachers are to have confidence in and trust in the student solutions, corrections and results they receive. I do not see that this group exists. Today we have a system in which the Swedish School Inspectorate hires teachers to do re-examinations of national tests. The school inspectorate can do this on Christmas holidays or Easter holidays – at times when there are teachers who may have time over – but to find this group of teachers in grading times and in times when national tests are carried out I see as completely impossible.
i-6e53488323257538-764	Madam President, I would like I think we can all say that teachers will be neither more nor less depending on who is responsible for and who is in charge of the correction. However, if it is the case that not as many teachers need to correct the national tests, I would say that this is more of a burden on other teachers. I would like to give the Government a little more time to answer the question that I did not really have time to formulate towards the end of my previous speech, about moving the national tests from grade 9 to grade 8. The aim is to give them a function that allows students to use the results to a greater extent to find their shortcomings. Students would then also have one year to fill the knowledge gaps that may exist.
i-6e53488323257538-766	Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of central correction, the School Inspectorate, who is today responsible for working in accordance with a mandate to re-examine, does an enormous amount of work and engages a large group of teachers to carry out the reorganisation. Translated to other national tests, this would mean a dramatically different governance of the Swedish school. Above all, it would cause major difficulties during the rating periods – in April, May and June, when many national exams are written and it is urgent to get the results from the national exams in order to influence the grading. I see it as very difficult to ensure a central function that could correct, as they say, the national tests. The question of moving the national tests from grade 9 to grade 8 shows how much demands we often place on these tests. We want the national tests to be able to both support grades and provide good information about the knowledge gaps, so that they can influence teaching. Various submissions also show that we want them to be able to give a picture of the knowledge development over time in Swedish schools. The international research presented in the study that forms the basis of the proposal clearly shows that it is not possible to reconcile any number of requirements in a national test. Here the government puts its foot down and says that the national tests should be rating supportive. Then it is appropriate that they are at the end and as close to the rating as possible. It is another thing that we should use many good development methods in Swedish schools to follow the students' knowledge development. There, for example, grade support materials from the Swedish National Agency for Education and other agencies can fulfil a good function as a classic national test when it comes to providing good information about the student's knowledge development.
i-6e53488323257538-772	Madam President, I would like I'll try to put it briefly. I know there are others who are next and want to speak. I have listened to what the Government has said, and I know that the Government has a great deal of knowledge on the matter. I'm sure it's a matter that the Government has been pushing for a long time. If I briefly step out of the question as a politician and become a teacher instead, I say: Thank you! Finally, we are moving towards digital national tests. I hope that the possibility of creating self-correcting parts in digital national tests will not be forgotten. I really hope that's included. There are some things that would make things easier. My question is mainly about the anchoring data. In order for digital national tests to be comparable over time and within each other, anchor data are important. But I see that the government has chosen not to take them with it. Can the Government elaborate on this issue?
i-6e53488323257538-776	Madam President, I would like We tend to place a little too many demands on one test. The question of whether a test can provide an opportunity to monitor the development of knowledge over time at even national level is a little greater than the fact that it can be included in today's national test. Sometimes it feels like a national test is the answer to the virgin's prayer; it will solve everything. I am convinced, and the proposal is based on the conviction, that the most important function we have for the national tests is to support teachers' rating. With this insight it also follows that the Government commissions the Swedish National Agency for Education to change the conditions when the national tests are put together so that they will better support a rating compared to today's system. Does this mean that it is absolutely impossible to find ways of allowing national tests to follow the development of knowledge as well? It's hard, but it's not impossible. Already today there are anchors in the national tests. In the case of assignments to the Swedish National Agency for Education there is a provision that anchor data should be used to increase the quality and stability of the tests. However, to rely entirely on a single format of national tests to provide support for grading, good information on the formal development of students and good information on knowledge development over time has so far not been successful in any country. In the bill, the government chooses to put its foot down clearly in order that the main purpose of national tests should be to support the teachers' rating in order to prevent grade inflation and to ensure that the teachers have rye in their backs when they put the correct rating.
i-6e53488323257538-780	Madam President, I would like I do not really feel that I got an answer to the question about anchor data, but I understand that it is a little too big to be included in the bill. That is the summary of the answer. My second question is about the virgin's prayer from us teachers. Can we get a long-term perspective in the Swedish school system, and can we make sure that Swedish politicians stop twitching in our school systems all the time? I raised the question in my speech, and I addressed the Council of State several times and asked whether it is possible to reverse the order. Obviously, when we politicians have been in the same room for a long time discussing an issue, we have landed in good consensus. I mentioned the school commission and the high school inquiry. Is it a system that the Government would like to recommend in future? There are a few months left before the next election. If we can start discussing the issue before the elections, perhaps we can come to a consensus immediately after the elections when the results of the elections come. If the school in Sweden is ever to get peace and quiet, long-termism is required. Is the Government prepared to imagine the idea of reversing the order, to include us politicians at SOU level so that we can say our thing early? It has been a good outcome when it has been done.
i-6e53488323257538-784	Madam President, I would like Stefan Jakobsson made an incorrect summary of what I said about the anchoring data. This is an issue that has been dealt with since the Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to continue working to ensure the long-term and quality of the national tests. It includes anchoring data. That being said, the question of at what level there should be anchoring data is probably an issue that is more suitable for the Swedish National Agency for Education's research groups than for political debates in the Swedish Parliament. Stefan Jakobsson also has a habit of making himself a spokesman for teachers and presenting himself as a teacher, not as a politician, while Stefan Jakobsson himself makes to a large extent detailed political proposals that are rarely anchored in the teaching profession but are rather about usually accusing politicians of division. I am the first to wish a consensus on the Swedish school. I am the first to wish for long-term prospects. If we are to raise knowledge in Sweden, strengthen equivalence and have an efficient use of resources in the Swedish school, I am convinced that we must work together. The twitchiness that has characterized Swedish school policy has perhaps been good for some political career projects but has not been good for Swedish schools, Swedish teachers or Swedish students. As long as I get to have my word in the game, I will work for good cooperation across the block border on school issues, simply because Swedish students deserve a school that is not torn apart by ever new political initiatives. Swedish teachers deserve peace of mind, not peace and quiet to work with what is most important, namely teaching.
i-6e53488323257538-789	Madam President, I would like The Government proposes to regulate through law that funds provide information on management with regard to various sustainability aspects such as the environment, social conditions, personnel, corruption and respect for human rights. In addition, all funds, whether or not they take into account sustainability aspects, shall also be required to report information requirements. There are currently several internationally recognised options for sustainability information. The UN Initiative Principles for Responsible Investments, PRI, clarifies sustainability accounting with asset management issues. In addition to this, there are Nordic initiatives, such as swan marking, which gives funds with a clear sustainability profile the opportunity to have their sustainability reviewed and ultimately certified. The independent organisation Swedish Sustainable Investment Forum also provides information for retail savers in the form of a sustainability profile. Morningstar is a fourth example that makes a full assessment of the sustainability work of different funds, and there are also national industry initiatives from the Swedish Investment Fund Association with proposals for guidelines for correct expressions and non-misleading formulations in marketing. Today, investors seeking a sustainable fund option in relation to ESG standards are also given adequate opportunities to invest in the broad and growing amount of sustainability funds. The investment strategy of these funds is to take into account the CSR programmes of companies while certifying themselves through, for example, so-called swan marking or the use of PRI accounting. The conclusion, Madam President, is that the average fund saver already has access today to easily accessible information and good opportunities to invest in funds on the basis of their sustainability. With this requirement, Swedish legislation would deviate from the EU standard while imposing an increased administrative burden on these companies. It is questionable how effective the regulation of sustainability information can be considered when it is not applicable to securities-based funds whose residence is outside Sweden. This would lead to an asymmetry where foreign investment funds would gain a competitive advantage due to the lack of administrative requirements to report sustainability information. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority also states in its referral that it is unclear what is meant by the concept of sustainability. In the worst case, the lack of control mechanisms in relation to fund sustainability information can lead to greenwashing. This means that the fund manager wrongly markets the fund as more sustainable than it really is in order to make it more attractive to savers. Finally, it is pointed out by several consultation bodies that there is an imminent risk that legislative regulation will quickly become out-of-date and, at worst, counterproductive. The Swedish democrats' view is that the development of sustainability reporting is best done through self-regulation, which is proven to already exist in the industry. The government should therefore return to Parliament with a bill in accordance with what I have said here. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-6e53488323257538-798	Madam President, I would like We are therefore debating the Finance Committee's report 16, which has the core name Better conditions for fund-saving and sustainable elections. I would like to start, for the sake of the system, by calling for the proposal to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. There is broad agreement in the committee to support the Government's proposal. It is good and gratifying that this unity exists. This bill has its origins in one of the government's reports in 2014 with the name A sustainable, transparent and competitive fund market. It was an investigation that had the task to see if and in that case what changes are needed in the rules of commercial law to strengthen the Swedish fund industry's competitiveness. The fact that the investigation was and is, of course, essentially an expression of the importance that the government attaches to issues relating to sustainability and sustainable business. What distinguishes this proposal is that it contains clear proposals that strengthen the position of consumers and investors in the fund market. It improves competition and eliminates the risk of friction between Swedish law and future EU law. Madam President, I would like The proposal contains a number of rather technical proposals, and in those parts the committee is entirely united. I would therefore like to focus briefly on the issue of sustainability and sustainability accounting, where there are some differences of opinion. As the flow of information increases, we will hopefully become increasingly aware of the conditions of the world in which we live. As a result, more and more aspects than just the monetary cost are relevant to us as consumers in purchasing decisions today and in the future – not least when decision-makers also expect companies to take greater responsibility for the environment in which they operate, for example through directives linked to sustainability issues. These could include the environment, human rights, trade union rights and working conditions and anti-corruption. Concepts such as CSR and ESG are becoming increasingly important. How well a company shoulderes this responsibility and adapts its routines and work to new requirements and conditions will unfailingly affect both its earning capacity and its profitability. For consumers and investors in the fund market, there is therefore great value in knowing how these funds define, work with and follow up sustainability issues, not only from an ethical perspective but also from a profitability perspective. It is, for example, about combating greenwashing, which we heard about earlier, through clearer information. Companies that do the right thing and do the right thing themselves should be rewarded. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal does not aim to regulate the sustainability of the funds in detail, but to increase transparency. The bill does not state what to do or how to do it without it being communicated to investors so that they can make informed decisions. Many companies are already required to report their sustainability work. It should not be easier to avoid sustainability issues in the future. On the contrary, more people need to adopt and quickly implement this idea and approach in their activities. Those who succeed first will have a competitive advantage. Overall, the proposals in the proposal can be summarised as strengthening the consumer and investor perspective through better sustainability information. It also equates the conditions of competition with the possibility for more players to offer, for example, investment savings accounts and to revise the capital adequacy rules for fund companies and alternative investment funds. With that, Madam President, I once again support the proposal.
i-6e53488323257538-810	Madam President, I would like In March 2017, the Commission presented a White Paper on the future of the European Union. It presented a discussion paper on a number of cross-cutting topics, including views on the future of the EU's finances with different scenarios for how the budget could develop in the future. The committee has examined this and reached a Swedish position with which the Swedish Democrats generally agree: that the Swedish levy should be kept down and that effective control of the use of EU funds and a general reduction in the volume of expenditure is needed. Overall, this is a good starting point in the negotiations, but in a number of areas the SD has a stronger EU-critical and more pro-European position than the committee. On a central issue, migration policy, we have a completely different view from that of the committee. That is also why, on our part, it became a reservation of reasons rather than a specific opinion. The committee believes that expenditure on agricultural and cohesion policy should be reduced, which is a step in the right direction but, in our view, insufficient. Agricultural policy has been an inefficient tool that has benefited large companies in eastern countries at the expense of Swedish farmers – a sort of reversed Robin Hood policy, where nearly 80 percent of the financial contributions are distributed to 20 percent of the largest companies. Another example is the EFSI funds, where tax money is channelled into things that have no added value whatsoever for our country. In fact, Swedes pay the second highest net contribution to the EU – SEK 2,600 per person per year. It is therefore money that goes to finance infrastructure projects in other Member States, among other things. One might wonder whether this is the way to achieve prosperity and whether it is really the contribution that has built Europe strong. The Swedish Democrats want to completely abolish this policy and instead seek to return the decision-making process over the allocation of financial resources to the Member States. In the best of worlds, Sweden had had that influence. Now we do not have it, and so we call on the government to work for such a development to the extent possible. Reforming today's centralised and supra-national political organisation into pure economic cooperation based on a mobile and unified internal market in which sovereign and independent nation states participate – this is the vision of Sweden's democrats. Trade and cooperation in particular tend to be the main argument for the EU, because in today's globalised world it would be difficult to manage without trade for a small, export-dependent nation like Sweden. Ironically, however, this is also the weakest argument, for what is it that says that we must wipe out our right of decision over economic policy and move all political power to Brussels just to trade? A distinction must be made between political union and trade cooperation. On to the part of this case that prompted our motive reservation. After all, the EU wants to link an increasingly tough grip on migration policy in Europe. Sweden should in no way contribute to this. One example is that the discussion paper makes far-reaching proposals for greater flexibility within the financial framework in order to have more room for manoeuvre in case of unexpected events and unforeseen needs. Here we try to express ourselves diplomatically, but those who read between the lines do not need much creativity to understand what it means in plain text. Here, therefore, Swedish action should be to make it clear that predictability and long-termism should be the key words in working with the EU's future finances. Madam President, I would like On a crucial issue for Europe, we believe that the committee has come to the wrong conclusion. The Swedish Democrats do not share the view that we spend too little money on immigration to the continent, and we certainly do not share the view that the EU should force countries to accept refugees and punish those who pursue a responsible immigration policy. It would be more reasonable to punish those who do not, but on principle it must never be an EU matter to govern the policies of each country, as the conditions in terms of capacity and will of the people vary. It is the right of each country to decide on and conduct an independent immigration policy, and parliamentary support for giving away the right to decide – or even to adapt it to someone else's needs – is lacking in the vast majority of Member States. This must be respected both by Sweden and by the European Union, which is why I am in favour of our motivational reservation.
i-6e53488323257538-821	Madam President, I would like The House today has a position to take on a Swedish position in the debate on the future of the EU's finances. This discussion presents a wide range of options for action on important issues such as revenue, expenditure, coordination, uniformity, conditions and responsibility for the Member States and for the EU. Initially, it is important to establish that the future of the EU's finances depends fundamentally on economic development. It is affected by the training of people, so that we increase skills and can develop new jobs and increase productivity, by whether we in the Union compete under fair conditions and create security in transitions, and by whether all citizens are allowed to share the fruits in an equal and trusting spirit. The way in which such issues are dealt with affects the economy and confidence in the EU. As far as finances are concerned at EU level, the Swedish Government has taken some positions, and they are well balanced for Sweden. Firstly, it is a question of budgetary discipline. It is good to have a ceiling on expenditure and to keep the EU below that ceiling, which should be below 1% of the Member States' budget. One consequence of the disappearance of the UK membership fee is a reduction in the expenditure ceiling. Furthermore, Sweden's position is that the fee should be kept down. This is achieved mainly by the EU being restrictive on the expenditure side. One reason for this is the safeguarding of budgetary discipline and the achievement of objectives. Tax money should be used responsibly. They should go to what they are intended for, and commitments should be fulfilled before new ones are made. This leads to the position on having clear priorities. It is urgent for the EU today to focus its energy on strengthening certain structures, such as today's and the future's competitiveness, research, climate change, our common security and, not least, good management of migration. At the other end, therefore, expenditure on other things should be given priority, such as expenditure on agricultural policy. That is the meaning of re-prioritising. In this connection, the Swedish Government also takes a very important position on the responsibility of all Member States for the reception of refugees. Sweden's efforts to establish a system of solidarity are well known, and the government's position is that the EU's various support systems should be linked to whether or not a Member State assumes its responsibilities. Anyone who does not take responsibility should not be allowed to benefit from the aid schemes in the same way as today. Finally, the Government takes the view that the control of the use of EU funds should be more effective and effective. Madam President, I would like In addition to the government's positions, there are related discussions and comments that are relevant for the future of the EU's finances. One of these is the consequences of British withdrawal from the Union. Of course, we do not know it fully today, either in terms of the impact on the EU's finances or in terms of the impact on development in the Union. It is important that this question should be clarified because it affects other issues. Another discussion concerns tax evasion and tax planning. Sweden's position is that the EU should not have tax rights, but that does not prevent a discussion between the EU Member States. We are now seeing assets being moved around between Member States in order to avoid tax. We can't have that. See this in the light of our social model, the Swedish model. It is based on investments in knowledge and increased productivity, creating a structural change up the value chain. We combine high welfare with high growth. Then we cannot keep on competing with low taxes – partly because it reduces the income to the welfare of the Member States and partly because the EU would also benefit from a future of healthy competition that generates higher value added and not a future of creating low-wage jobs and tax havens. A third discussion affecting the financial situation in the EU is the development of the labour market. In the same way that we should not compete by lowering taxes, we should not compete by pitting workers against workers and lowering wages. That is why the new EU Posting of Workers Directive is so important. It has the order that it is the level of wages in the country in which you work, regardless of where you come from, and this means that workers are not put against workers. It is appropriate to extend a great deal of thanks to the government and in particular to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson for the fact that this became a reality. If you want it, you can do it! The Posting of Workers Directive is an important step towards a social and cohesive Europe. It strengthens trust and trust, and it creates healthy competition. In addition, it strengthens finances, when the EU chooses welfare rather than low wages and low taxes. In so doing, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-6e53488323257538-834	Madam President, I would like This discussion paper is part of a broader discussion on the future of the EU. It is based on a White Paper setting out five scenarios for the future of the EU and how it can develop by 2025. When the White Paper was presented, five broad topics were discussed. These were the social dimension, the response to globalisation, EMU, defence and the EU's future finances. The discussion paper discusses the EU budget. This budget is mainly financed by contributions from each Member State on the basis of its GNP, as well as by customs duties and contributions on the basis of VAT. There are also some adjustments and so-called discounts. The central issue, however, is what the EU budget should be used for. What are the priorities to be set? According to the discussion paper, the future EU budget must be based on a vision of the EU's priorities. The UK's withdrawal from the Union has a strong impact on this, and it will require re-priorities. Part of the discussion paper is about so-called own resources and how the system can be more efficient. A number of alternative proposals are put forward here, including the abolition of the current system of rebates – which, for example, reduces Sweden's contribution to the EU –. The aforementioned White Paper on the future of the EU presents five scenarios with different implications for EU finances in terms of the size and structure of the budget, as well as the level of change and modernisation. The five different scenarios for the EU-27 are: 中 to continue as before ♪ To do less together ♪ 中 that some do more 中 a radical reshuffle 中 to do much more together. These scenarios are all different, but in common with them they all require that flexibility is taken into account in order to deal with major unexpected events and unforeseen needs, such as migration and security problems. All the scenarios state that all discounts should be removed, which, as I said earlier, would give Sweden a higher fee. Madam President, I would like In the government's position, we see that the Moderates' proposals have been listened to, and we therefore have no major conflicts. However, we Moderates want to see that the government is clear in these discussions and that support is sought from like-minded countries. Like a majority in the committee, we advocate budget restraint and that Sweden should work towards an effective and prudent budgetary policy within the EU with clear delivery of decisions taken before new ones are created. We want to see a stabilisation of EU expenditure and a ceiling of less than 1% of the EU-27 budget. The Swedish rebate that we have had should not be eroded. When the UK contribution disappears, the EU budget will be reduced by as much or preferably by more. If priorities are to be pursued in favour of common commitments such as security, migration, competitiveness, research and climate change. This can be done by reducing appropriations for agricultural aid and structural funds. I would also like to point out that agricultural aid is not just a matter for the European Union, but actually affects the whole world trade. It's supposed to cost you not to take responsibility. Similarly, countries that do not take responsibility in migration policy should not have access to EU support in the same way as they do today. All Member States shall stand up for common values and decisions. The EU brings not only benefits but also obligations. We want to see effective control of the use of EU funds. A reduction in the budget makes it even more important for the money to be spent properly. National tax authorities must be protected. The EU should not have tax rights. Madam President, I would like With regard to the European Investment Fund (EIF), the EFSI, mentioned in the opinion, the Moderates believe that an independent evaluation of the impact it has had on jobs and growth should be carried out prior to deciding whether to extend or even permanentise the project. Decisions must not be taken for weak reasons and without long-term or economic consequences. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-6e53488323257538-851	Madam President, I would like It was in the winter of 2015 that the Left Party went out and clearly demanded that Sweden withhold the EU levy until other Member States fulfilled their promised commitments to receive refugees. I think it is a good thing that other parties have now joined and agree with us in the Left Party in our criticism of the fact that Member States receive EU funds even though they do not comply with joint agreements on, among other things, refugee reception. The Committee on Budgets is today delivering strong EU criticism of the Commission in relation to the EU's finances. For a long time, Sweden has criticised the EU budget for being out-of-date. This would be an excellent opportunity, in the light of b rexit, to reform the EU budget. Unfortunately, the Commission does not seem to see this possibility. Rather, the federalists in the EU are moving in a direction that neither citizens nor Sweden as a country want. That is why it is a good thing that the Committee on Finance is today making a sharp criticism of the European Commission. Those who take part in this debate also see clearly where the difference goes between the Left Party's EU criticism and the Swedish Democrats' EU criticism. It is also clear from the opinion of the Committee on Finance that taxation at European level is not seen as a way forward. Although Sweden is stubbornly rejecting various federalist proposals on EU taxes, the proposals continue to come. Today, once again, we are clearly saying no to giving the EU the right to tax. Several other speakers have also addressed the EU's agricultural and rural policy. This is a clear example of an area in which the EU should do less. More power should be moved back to national governance to achieve the benefits that are important. It will be easy for the EU to talk about the principle of subsidiarity while very little is happening in reality. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to call for the excellent proposals of the Committee on Finance to be endorsed in this opinion, where there is a great deal of European criticism.
i-6e53488323257538-857	Madam President, I would like The financial crisis has shown how badly EMU works and on whose side the euro area countries stand. It was the banks that were rescued, while the policies that were being pursued meant a sharp increase in unemployment and poverty for ordinary people in Europe. The euro crisis is a structural crisis resulting from monetary union locking the Member States into a single monetary and monetary policy. The competitiveness of euro area countries is eroded by differences in production growth between countries, contributing to current account deficits and public finances. This was the basis for our EMU criticism when we had the EMU vote in Sweden in 2003. Sweden is a small and export-dependent country that depends on stability in our surrounding world. Economic problems in the euro area also affect us here in Sweden, usually quite hard. The Commission's background contains very far-reaching proposals for enhanced EU cooperation. Major steps are being taken towards greater supranationality and power is being shifted from Member States to the EU. The Left Party is strongly critical of the European Commission's proposal. The problems in the euro area cannot be solved by reducing Member States' national discretion over fiscal policy. supranational solutions prevent individual Member States from taking the necessary decisions on the basis of their own circumstances. Countries face different challenges, and there are imbalances in individual economies that need to be resolved instead of taking steps in the federal direction. Otherwise, democratic influence risks being eroded. The Treaty of Lisbon applies today. It says that the EU should not go into areas where Member States have decision-making powers today. Therefore, the EU should not have any tax rights either. The Swedish people decided in a referendum that Sweden would be outside the monetary union EMU. This decision is still valid and should not be called into question by the European Commission in the way that is happening today. Sweden should therefore, as Denmark has done, request derogations in accordance with the decision of the referendum. The Left Party currently sees no reason why Sweden should be part of the Banking Union. The Government's investigation into a possible Swedish membership feels like a haste whose purpose is unclear. Possible membership risks costing Swedish taxpayers big money for risks and losses that occur in any other part of the Union without having the opportunity to influence it – this is because the Union is based on a moral hazard, i.e. it cannot be ensured that all countries work with risk minimisation when they know that someone else can pay any losses. The second risk is that the capital adequacy that exists is so low that it does not cover any failing banks. It is important that the decision-making rights of the Member States are not further curtailed. The measures proposed by the European Commission mean increased power for the EU. Fundamental powers will then be transferred from the Member States, democratic legitimacy undermined and democracy weakened. That is why I would like to support reservation 1.
i-6e53488323257538-865	Madam President, I would like The future of the European Union is basically about what relationship the countries and citizens of Europe should have with each other and how we should tie ties. No one can deny that we are interlinked in several ways – historical and cultural, economic and political. For Sweden, as an open country with high competitiveness and large exports, what happens in the outside world is directly influencing the development at home. Not least is it about what is happening in the EU, as it is our largest trading partner. We have an interest in the overall success of the economy in Europe. That is why questions about the functioning of the EU are of great importance. It is important that there is economic stability, a preparedness for crises and good opportunities for growth. It is important that the EU countries stick together and that we are open to each other so that we can get a functioning economic exchange. That's what everyone benefits from. Madam President, I would like Based on the discussion paper on deeper economic and monetary union, the government has set out some positions that, based on Swedish interests, are good. A balanced and controlled economic development in Europe is desirable in the interests of competitiveness, which justifies greater convergence. For example, there are positive developments in the financial market, although there is still work to be done within the Member States. It is also desirable to live up to the existing fiscal frameworks. It is about budgetary discipline in the Member States and also in the euro area countries. It is crucial for the functioning of the European Union and for the functioning of EMU. An important reason for budgetary discipline is not least that shared risk presupposes shared responsibility. Since it is the Member States themselves that are responsible for taxation, welfare and the labour market, it is important that there is a responsible fiscal policy in each Member State in case risk is to be shared. It's about trust in each other. As the government estimates, there is reason to oppose increased centralisation, which would mean that responsibility, influence and decision-making power would be transferred from the Member States. Instead, the priority within the Union should be that existing frameworks and agreed commitments are first complied with. It is up to the Member States to be responsible for this. The economy of the EU cannot be distinguished from that of the Member States. When the Member States are doing well, the EU is doing well. There is therefore no scenario where economic development in the EU can be addressed without a responsible economic policy in each Member State being pursued at the bottom. Madam President, I would like In addition to the fact that the EU should focus on living up to what it has already committed itself, there are some other factors that influence the debate on deepening economic and monetary union. One of these is Brexit. We do not know what the consequences of a British withdrawal will be. However, it is reasonable to assume that it will affect the EU budget, financial markets and political relations between countries. This fact calls for a substantial increase in any scenario of the future in order for developments to be different from those expected. Political objectives become more difficult to relate to when the terrain is difficult to read. Another factor is cohesion and equality in Europe. It is of great importance that the EU engages in creating a Europe in which people have work, welfare and faith in the future. When gaps are allowed to grow, mistrust also grows in each other and also in the face of democracy's ability to address the problems people experience in everyday life. A very positive message, therefore, is that the EU has addressed the issue of combating wage dumping with the amendment of the rules on posted workers. It is the wage level in the country you work in that applies, whether you live there or not. The hard work of the government to achieve this is to be honored. One area where work remains to be done, however, is refugee policy. The EU and the Member States need to be given joint reception. The government's commitment is well known. Just as the EU has shown its capacity for action in climate policy, for example, this should be a priority. It is precisely a matter of shared responsibility. Madam President, I would like The question of the future of Europe and the possible deepening of economic and monetary union is very much about trust. We ourselves, as members, own the development of the European Union. In the same way as there are risks, there are opportunities. The EU is a very important institution. However, in order for it to enjoy the confidence of its citizens, it needs to deliver concrete results, both in terms of what has already been decided and in terms of being effective in making life better for the many. This increases trust between EU citizens, between EU Member States and the Union itself. I would like to support the proposal in the opinion and reject the reservation.
i-6e53488323257538-879	Madam President, I would like The question of the functioning of EMU has been discussed on several occasions in recent years. As early as 2012/ 13, a report and a communication with far-reaching proposals were launched to centralise decision-making on economic policy in the euro area. But there were no concrete results from this. In 2015, the five presidents' report was presented with a two-step plan that would provide EMU with four mutually complementary foundations in the form of an economic union, a financial union, a fiscal union and a political union. Behind the report were the Presidents of the Commission, the Euro Summit, the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the European Parliament. In 2016, the UK voted for a withdrawal from the Union, which led the Commission to initiate a broader discussion on the future of the EU. Last spring, the Commission presented a White Paper on the future of Europe, which launched five scenarios for Europe's development. For the different scenarios, specific discussion papers were presented for five key policy areas. That of deepening economic and monetary union is one. The Commission is now advocating a number of measures in three areas: financial union, economic and fiscal union and political union. This is done in two stages, the first to 2019 and the second from 2020 to 2025. Madam President, I would like Now on our table is a discussion paper presenting a large number of measures aimed at strengthening the functioning of EMU in the three aforementioned areas. In the discussion paper, the more far-reaching proposals contained in the five presidents' report have been put forward and some new proposals have been made. In the area of financial union, the proposals relate to risk management and the completion of the Banking Union and the Capital Markets Union, but also to a European security and a change in the ownership of government bonds. In the area of economic and fiscal union, measures include: deepening existing EU structures; strengthening coordination in the context of the European Semester; strengthening the link between national reforms and EU funding; and setting up a macro-economic stabilisation fund. For the future, a specific budget for the euro area and simplification of the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact are mentioned. In the area of political union, the Commission considers that a stronger monetary union can only be achieved if the Member States give up powers in relation to the euro area. The measures proposed include various forms of dialogue, a strengthened role for the Eurogroup, the establishment of a euro area finance department, with a finance minister, and a European Monetary Fund. The President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, stressed in his speech on the state of the Union, which he held two months ago, that the euro is intended to be the single currency of the whole of the European Union and that all the Member States except two are obliged to join monetary union when they meet all the conditions. Mr Juncker also called on all EU countries to join the Banking Union. Madam President, I would like In this case too, the government has been impressed by the views of the Moderates. We do not have any major conflicts with regard to this discussion paper. Here, too, we wish the government to be very clear in the discussions and to seek support from like-minded countries. We would like to stress the importance of the EU-27 holding together and promoting good cooperation and equivalence between the Member States within and outside the euro area. Issues relating to all Member States should be discussed and decided by all Member States. Transparency should, in our opinion, apply. Different risk-sharing instruments can have a negative impact on Member States' incentives to pursue responsible policies. We are therefore doubtful about the proposals that are moving in a highly centralised direction. We want to maintain respect for Member States' powers over taxation, labour market policy and social policy. Priority should be given to the effective implementation of existing measures rather than the creation of new bodies and institutions. With regard to the creation of a European finance minister and an associated department, I think we should ask ourselves a number of questions. What authority does a joint finance minister have? What does a common finance minister bring to the EU? From a moderate point of view, we are doubtful that this is the right way to go. With regard to Mr Juncker's speech to the Union, I would like to point out that Sweden is outside the monetary union until Parliament decides otherwise. We shall respect the 2003 referendum in which a majority of the Swedish people said no to the introduction of the euro as a currency. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-6e53488323257538-892	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want a free Europe with a diversity of nations, a diversity of cultures and European languages. It is under these conditions that Europe has been built, shaped and changed in the world through industrialisation and the birth of modern democracy. We share a common history that has affected our time, but there are at least as many similarities as differences, making each country unique. We have 26 different languages and as many peculiar European cultures. We shall ensure that, because it is not a common federalist state, a flag and an anthem that make Europe Europe. Having this in mind, I think it is easy to understand why we are critical of proposals from Brussels that undermine Parliament's financial power, sacrifice our independence and finally reduce free nations to states of the European Union. Madam President, I would like After this somewhat ideological introduction, I turn to the substance of the matter today: the Commission's discussion paper on deepening economic and monetary union. It is based on the five presidents' report, which presents guiding principles for the way forward. We are concerned about a number of the ambitions and proposals expressed by the Commission. They want a common finance department, a common finance minister and a permanent chairman of the Eurogroup. If this were to be realised, it would be extremely difficult to turn back. The establishment of new bodies is certainly exclusive to the euro area countries, and if another Member State wishes to hand over powers to go in a supranational direction, it is not up to us to try to influence its decisions. However, since we have a demand to join monetary union, it is our right to oppose such a development. That requirement is explicitly expressed as one of the objectives of the coming years, as the President of the Commission, Mr Jean-Claude, stressed in his speech earlier this autumn. The Swedish people have voted against the euro. It is to be respected, and it is therefore to be welcomed that the committee is united on this issue. What is not welcome, however, or in any case raises some questions, is the committee's relatively positive attitude towards the Banking Union, as almost all parties agree with the government's line of having to investigate what it would mean for Sweden to join. If we join the Banking Union, that would mean giving up the authorities' control over the Swedish banks to supranational bodies in which we have limited influence as long as we are also outside monetary union. If you are not part of EMU and the euro, you do not have full voting rights in the SSM, the Single Supervisory Mechanism. If we do not argue against membership of the Banking Union, then the rules of logic should not rule out the euro unless we see minimal influence as an end in itself. One might wonder whether this is the correct reason why the government has consistently refused to negotiate a formal exemption from joining monetary union. Maybe you want to keep all the doors open. On these grounds, we can also question the credibility of whether we really stand up for the referendum. We do not really know where the governing parties really stand on the substance of the matter. In essence, a study of course signals that there is a scenario in which one is prepared to discuss membership, otherwise it would not be interesting at all to have the matter investigated. Is it the case that there is a scenario of joining the Banking Union? I think we can call for a reply on this issue.
i-6e53488323257538-903	Madam President, I would like Today we have a proposal to introduce a new part of the housing allowance for children living alternately with their separated parents, while phasing out the alternate part of the maintenance allowance. That is what it seems a rather uncontroversial change. Nevertheless, it is important, and for this reason, Madam President, I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. Housing allowance is an important part of the disposable income of quite a few families with children in our country and a significant distribution policy instrument to support economically weaker families with children. With the current construction of the housing allowance, families with children can receive a benefit that is actually divided into two: firstly, the cost of housing itself, and secondly, a benefit for having children who either live permanently in the household or stay there at times as so-called children of association. But there is no alternative because children can actually live alternately with both their parents. In this way, civil records have an unreasonable impact on how society's support is distributed to the parents of children, even when they actually share the responsibility. Those who have a child in the household permanently, or for the part the population register address of a child who in practice lives alternately with two parents, today receive a grant in this second part of the housing allowance of SEK 1 500, SEK 2 000 for two children and SEK 2 650 for three children or more. Today's system is based, as I said, on the assumption that children either live permanently with one parent and stay at times or visit the other parent. However, the reality is different today. In fact, 35 percent of all children who have separated parents live alternately in two households, a figure that, moreover, is constantly increasing and is expected to be even higher. It is therefore reasonable that the economic policies of children and families should now take a step towards keeping up with development and modernisation. What is now being proposed specifically is the introduction of a new alternative alternative to housing allowance, which would then instead be issued monthly per household with custody of children of SEK 1,300 for one child, SEK 1,600 for two children and SEK 2,100 for three or more children. Unlike the housing allowance, however, there is currently support within the maintenance allowance for children who live alternately. It is the only part of the maintenance allowance that is income-tested in relation to the parent who is the recipient of the allowance. It is a construction that slightly departs from the basic purpose of the maintenance allowance, namely to be a compensation for non-maintenance from the other parent. In fact, the variable part of the maintenance allowance is much more similar to the housing allowance in terms of distribution policy. The transfer of alternate support from maintenance support to housing allowance therefore streamlines and clarifies both of these financial support funds for families with children. More people will also benefit from alternate housing allowance support than is the case with the maintenance allowance. However, in order to mitigate the transition for, for example, the parent who has previously received maintenance allowance for alternate housing and at the same time received full housing allowance, despite the fact that the child has actually lived alternately in two families, it is also proposed to phase out the alternate part of maintenance allowance over a four-year period, where it decreases by SEK 200 per month and children for each year during that transitional period. At the same time, it is proposed to increase the income limits of the housing allowance, i.e. what can be earned in order to receive housing allowance. This will mean that even more households will be entitled to housing allowance or an increased compensation. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal involves a modernised and more efficient construction of the financial support available for families with children. We Social Democrats think that is a good thing. We believe that it is a balanced proposal as a whole, based on the fact that current housing and maintenance support is not synchronised with each other. They are also not sufficiently adapted to changing patterns of living and family constellations. It is therefore reasonable to do something about this. After all, it is reasonable that the need-tested support of society should be better adapted to the financial situation and the division of responsibilities of households rather than to the address of population registers and untimely assumptions. In order to improve the conditions for financially vulnerable families to take joint responsibility for the children's livelihood, it is a natural step to introduce the new special housing allowance for children who live alternately, while at the same time the maintenance allowance is pured up to actually be a support for those who do not receive maintenance support.
i-6e53488323257538-916	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal certainly involves some changes that we have chosen to accept at present as they are below the current regulatory framework. Nevertheless, we believe that the current system of maintenance support and support needs to be reformed more thoroughly. Instead, we want to see a system that is more predictable and more transparent and better suited to the interests and needs of children. Parents should take clear responsibility for their children's finances. The current maintenance support system makes this difficult, as it creates incentives for parents to choose either one or the other, through its two different models – maintenance and maintenance support. The rules on maintenance are relatively complex. For parents who cannot agree, the alternative has often been to decide on maintenance in court, which can be an expensive and rather time-consuming process. Many have therefore chosen maintenance support to escape these obstacles. The problem has been that the highest level has been perceived as normative. This means that children have not received the maintenance they would have received if the maintenance rules had been complied with. For example, there are estimates showing that as many as four out of ten children would have received more in maintenance if the maintenance allowance rules had been complied with. Madam President, I would like The system has been reformed and the government is now proposing further changes. But it does not solve the basic problem of absent parents who do not fully accept their financial responsibility. We believe that today's model is at risk of conflict, which can hardly be considered to benefit children in particular. Since a large part of the children of separated parents live with the mother, it is difficult to see that the new rules introduced will do something to alleviate their financial situation. The rules are thus in danger, as they are designed today, of hitting women and children in the first place. From the Moderate side, therefore, we want to see that the current system is replaced by a model whereby a certain percentage of the absent parent's income goes to the child. It would create predictability, reduce risks of conflict and strengthen the economy of many single parents and their children. As our proposal requires some investigation, we currently accept the proposal in the Government's proposal, but we hope that the Government will return to Parliament with a broader proposal aimed at the major shortcomings of the current system. In our special opinion, we also refer to our motion 2017/ 18:3033.
i-6e53488323257538-925	Madam President, I would like The proposal, which introduces within the housing allowance a new special allowance for children who live alternately and abolishes the maintenance allowance in the event of alternate housing, is a modernisation of the means-tested allowance for parents who live in a special situation. This means better alignment of support with parents' financial situation and cost responsibility. As a result of the current situation, two parents with a level playing field are compensated differently within the framework of the housing allowance when the child lives alternately with them, and it certainly does not feel modern. Analyses show that parents with children who live alternately and who receive both housing allowance and maintenance support in alternate housing together receive a higher financial compensation than parents who have children living in the household all the time. Maintenance support for alternate residents thus rewards a certain form of housing for the child in front of others. That's not reasonable either. The Government's proposal therefore means that a certain form of housing is not rewarded, and the child's population records do not have a decisive impact on the right to support. The thresholds for the reduction of the housing allowance for families with children shall be increased when the basic income is to result in a reduction in the housing allowance for families with children. Well to note, this concerns all households with children within the housing allowance, i.e. not only those who have children who live alternately. I think that's good. In my opinion, the Government's proposal should also simplify the procedure for the parents when applying and also for the administration of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. About half of the parents on low incomes who receive maintenance support in the event of alternate housing also receive housing allowance. As is now the case, two decisions are taken that are based on different grounds when the applicant applies for both housing allowance and maintenance support in alternate housing. Decisions on housing allowance are based on the information provided by the applicant on expected income. On the other hand, decisions on maintenance support for alternate residents are based on the applicant's last taxed income, which, as you know, can be up to two years old. Both income data then form the basis for decisions on support and grants for the same financial situation. The only conclusion can be that there is unnecessary additional work. The applicant must write two applications, and Försäkringskassan must make two decisions based on two different income data. By harmonising these two aids, the workload should be reduced for both the individual applying and the Social Insurance Office's administrator. The decisions can then also be perceived as more fair and legally secure by the applicant. I therefore think that this is a good reform. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6e53488323257538-933	Madam President, I would like As you have heard, this report is about strengthening the economy of divorced parents. There is no party in Parliament that has anything against it, nor, of course, the Center Party. However, we are against parents not being allowed to decide for themselves how to do it, because we know that it would be much better. In addition, this represents only a small part of the entire obligation of parents, whether they are separate, live together, are divorced or cohabiting or have adopted their children. No matter how you do it, you're always a parent. Then we have to look at this as a whole and not keep on putting a bullet in it. I mean, this is a small part of a parent's responsibility for the children to have a good economy. The Center Party therefore protests against this in a separate opinion. In this particular opinion, we say, as we said quite exactly two years ago, that a parliamentary inquiry should be set up with most parties in the Swedish Parliament to look at the whole of parenthood, where the economy is an important part. Two years ago, the Minister promised to listen to us, but of that it was nothing. Instead, the minister set up an investigation, and it has been renewed and, on a couple of occasions, extended. The investigation will present its final report on parental insurance on 20 December. Today's proposal is a small part that cannot be seen in its broad context. We know that when a change is made in a small part it has consequences elsewhere, and we will have to change it again, which is not good. Parental insurance should work if you have shared custody. It will make it easier for different family constellations and for more family members to be included. It should work if you are an entrepreneur, student, sick leave, unemployed, have children at home, etc. Then you have to look at the whole thing, and so you do not do that in this context. Six years ago, the Alliance Government set up the so-called "Särlevsökningen" which forms the basis for the decision we are about to make today. Then we did nothing about the proposal that came out, because we realised that we had to see the whole picture. The Alliance government believed that it would all do, regardless of the government, but obviously we were wrong. The Center Party still wants a parliamentary parental insurance inquiry that looks at the whole and takes a holistic approach, and of course more parties will be behind it. We regret that we have lost time in this regard, but there will be new times and probably a new government next year. Madam President, I would like I call for the proposal to be approved – all parents who are divorced have the right to a better economy – but refer to the special opinion of the Center Party.
