i-43674532d01138bf-0	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Jonas Sjöstedt has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative because the Swedish Government is acting against the treatment of the two Presidents of HDP and whether I intend to act within the European Union to influence Turkey's unjust treatment of Demirtaş and Yüksekda. I share the interpellete's great concern about the deteriorating situation in Turkey, not least as regards mass redundancies and arrests, limited media freedom and proposals for constitutional changes, which, if implemented, will weaken Parliament's role, among other things. The large-scale arrests and prosecutions of representatives of the political opposition that we see in Turkey after the coup attempt undermine the democratic system. Measures such as these, which have affected representatives of HDP in particular, risk adding to the current polarised political climate and creating further tensions between groups. The extensive prosecutions against the two party leaders of HDP are extremely worrying and some of the actions against HDP representatives and party offices that have been going on for a long time. HDP leaders – and the other democratically elected representatives – need to be released urgently in order to fulfil their parliamentary mandates and help create the conditions for a democratic debate ahead of the forthcoming referendum. The government intends to continue to address this issue with Turkish representatives, bilaterally and within the EU. We support your High Representative, Mr Mogherini, and Commissioner Hahn's clear message in this area. We intend to continue pushing for these issues to remain high on the political agenda in the EU's relationship with Turkey.
i-43674532d01138bf-5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Wallström, for your answer. I think it is particularly important that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so clear that Sweden is demanding the immediate release of the HDP leaders. I think it is an important and positive message, and it is also a direct message to the Turkish Government. HDP's management is in prison. It also does maybe 4 000 – 5 000 other HDP members, many of whom are elected. Many are mayors. Mr Många is a Member of Parliament. The only crime they are accused of is the presentation of their political views and the fulfilment of their political mission as an opposition. I therefore think it is important that Mrs Wallström and the government also promise to bring this up, both bilaterally with the Turkish Government and via the European Union. Turkey is becoming a dictatorship. The coup attempt is used to crush opposition that has no connection whatsoever to this coup attempt. We not only see politicians arrested; we also see mass redundancies of trade unionists and how critical media are closed. Cultural associations are ordered to cease their activities. Academics are dismissed and banned. What we see in Kurdistan is a brutal violence that risks leading to a full-scale civil war. Turkey is today a country of fear and mass arrests of people. For these attacks, HDP has been a primary objective of the Turkish government, and it is clear why. HDP is a left-wing democratic party that runs social and trade union issues about employees' rights. But HDP is also the most important voice for minority rights in Turkey. This applies not only to the Kurds, which are often mentioned, but also to the Christian minorities in Turkey, whose rights are often raised. On the Kurdish issue, HDP has been a persistent player in a peaceful solution. It has repeatedly called on both the Turkish State and the PKK to lay down their weapons and come to the negotiating table. The risk is that if HDP is crushed, the hope of a peaceful solution to the Kurdish question in Turkey will also be crushed for a long time to come. HDP is also a voice for women's rights in patriarchal Turkey and against the government's attempt to attack women's and children's rights. HDP has claimed the situation of refugees and the right of asylum. They are at every point Erdo and AKP mo tsats. That is why they are being attacked; that is why they are being imprisoned. In the Left Party we have a system in which we are sponsors of HDP parliamentarians. We have a special responsibility for different people we follow and have personal contact with. I myself am the sponsor of the party leader Selahattin Demirtaş, who is imprisoned. I met him in Parliament in May when his immunity was lifted. He is threatened today by 142 years in prison, in practice never to see his daughters and wife again as a free man. Like the other HDPs, he has chosen not to run. He has chosen to stay. When I met him in Stockholm in September, he said that soon I will be in prison. And he was right. When I was in Turkey in December, I was not allowed to see him. I had to stand outside the prison wall because he is being held in an isolation prison. Selahattin said to me: It is the world that determines HDP's future, as well as my future. The important thing is that you protest. Turkey is sensitive to what the outside world thinks. Now the trials begin, and Thursday is the first day of trial against Selahattin Demirtaş. There is no independent judicial system in Turkey, and my question is: will Sweden call Turkey's ambassador before Thursday or otherwise communicate directly to Turkey that it considers this to be an illegitimate trial? Will the EU protest before Thursday?
i-43674532d01138bf-16	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I respect what the Left Party has done and what Jonas Sjöstedt personally has done. It is incredibly brave and important, and I think it is an excellent idea to have such a sponsor system. It is not only a strong signal to the outside world, but it is also a question of showing in practice exactly what Jonas Sjöstedt says: that the outside world must continue to focus on what is happening. You will certainly have all the credit, Jonas Sjöstedt. Of course, we mentioned Turkey in the foreign declaration, but as always it is too short. That's why it's good that we have to discuss this. I have personally ensured that, through statements, the EU or Sweden will back up, and I have also met Mr Demirtaş. As Mr Sjöstedt says, it is important to keep this at the top of the agenda. I fully share Mr Sjöstedt's analysis and commitment to respect for human rights, but unfortunately we have seen developments in the opposite direction. What we usually do in situations like this, when there are trials, is demand that we get there and watch the trials. We usually try to do this in a coordinated way with other EU countries, because that will also make us stronger. When I come back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today, I will follow up on this to see exactly how far the plans have come to monitor the trial with the other EU countries. It is also an advantage that we can talk to the ambassador or otherwise make it clear through our ambassador in Turkey that we are watching this and will do everything we can to monitor the trial. Just to say something more about what is also a very serious aspect of the measures taken by the Turkish Government: in addition to the opposition politicians, they have therefore made massive attacks on large groups such as journalists and academics, which, of course, erodes the whole pluralism and indeed the dynamism that has existed and exists in Turkey and which is the basis of every democratic society. It also runs counter to what we saw after the elections in June 2015, when HDP entered Parliament, which was a victory not only for clearer representation of different population groups but also for a more equal parliament, because many HDP members are women. Measures aimed at undermining HDP have been implemented, not least since the lifting of parliamentary immunity. In the last week, we have also been informed that there is continuing to be widespread crackdown on Kurdish representatives. It is, of course, part of a legitimate fight against PKK terrorism, but it further contributes to the image of a society that becomes repressive. Here we also believe that there are many HDP representatives. It is essential to distinguish between acts of violence and terrorism and the expression of oppositional views. That's what's at stake here. I will definitely – as Jonas Sjöstedt can be sure – ensure that we follow up and monitor the trial.
i-43674532d01138bf-25	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. It is a positive message that the Swedish Embassy will be involved in the trials. I would also like to emphasise that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy have been helpful when we have been on the ground in Turkey. I thank you for that. Turkey's fate is important for the whole region. You're facing a kind of road choices. It is difficult to find democratic and peaceful development without giving the Kurdish minority rights in different ways. HDP's biggest crime in the eyes of Erdoa is that the party has stood up for the rights of the Kurds and has also spoken out on other issues. HDP has also supported the Kurds in Syria who have beaten back the Islamic State and have made decisive efforts to combat IS atrocities. In this context, Turkey has played a somewhat double role. The IS itself has been subjected to terrorist attacks. Today, the IS is fighting against IS on the ground in Syria, but it has also allowed IS to take illegal combatants across the border, has engaged in extensive trade and has otherwise played a double role in recent years. How dare Turkey become so authoritarian and play this double role? I think it is about the Turkish government seeing that there is a double game going on. Turkey is a NATO country. This means that other NATO countries are holding back on criticism. It is evident to NATO supporters in Sweden that they are reluctant to criticise the NATO country of Turkey. Adaptation to membership has already begun in bourgeois politics. Turkey buys a lot of weapons from EU countries. Turkey has a great economic exchange. Most importantly, Turkey is today holding back the refugees who would otherwise have made their way to Europe. I think it is clear that Turkey is using the refugee agreement as a sort of hostage to Europe. HDP has also pointed out that the agreement leads to a bad situation for the refugees and gives Erdo中an blackmail power. The question is whether the EU is prepared to reconsider key elements of the policy when it sees how it contributes to depopulation in Turkey. In April, Turkey voted for a new constitution. It is an attempt by Mr Erdo中an to legitimise authoritarian rule by means of a referendum. The Left Party and HDP call on Turkish citizens in Sweden to vote in the referendum and to vote against the constitutional amendment. It is not a free and fair referendum when representatives of the main parties who are opposed to constitutional change are actually in prison. We see how premises belonging to HDP and other parties are attacked by lynch mobs. We see that there is an obvious risk of violence against election meetings where the constitutional amendment is not accepted. I have a question for Mrs Wallström about the referendum. Does the Swedish Government consider it to be a free and fair referendum in Turkey if the current circumstances continue to prevail until April – difficulties for opposition and the lack of free media?
i-43674532d01138bf-33	Mr President, I would like to The intervention and this discussion really do give cause to reflect on the long-term approach to Turkey, Turkey's future, our relationship and the EU's relationship with Turkey. We have worked to preserve Turkey's EU perspective. We believe that it was the European perspective that for a number of years, until the beginning of the 21st century, pushed forward reforms in Turkey and a development that went in the right direction. In the long term, it is one of the most effective ways of influencing Turkey's choices. We will work together on issues where we have a common interest. Then we can have a broad and constructive dialogue, and it can strengthen the progressive and reform-friendly forces in Turkey. We must remember that throughout the whole process give them the strength and strength to dare to act and resist. In the EU dialogue with Turkey, Sweden is also the country that constantly highlights the importance of talking about democracy, about human rights, about the principles of the rule of law and about the situation in south-eastern Turkey. We have insisted on this in the dialogue between the EU and Turkey. I have no other picture than that of Jonas Sjöstedt of how the ambiguous relationship with terrorism and the fight against terrorism develops. However, if the development of violence in south-east Turkey continues, it will damage the conditions for any peace process. Without having a peace process to return to and negotiations with the Kurds, it is not possible to get a Turkey that is successful, democratic and moving in the right direction. It is essential to bring security to the region. There is one point on which I disagree with Jonas Sjöstedt, namely the refugee agreement. The agreement on refugees is about helping the refugees in Turkey. So far, Turkey has, broadly speaking, honoured the agreement that exists. The funds paid out go to the UN agencies and to help the refugees who are already there. As Jonas Sjöstedt knows, there are a large number. We must recognise that Turkey has contributed a great deal to the reception of refugees and in some places has good projects for refugees. They get to get into the community and work. There is effective integration. It is clear that it is a constant struggle to deal with the challenge, but Turkey has broadly honoured the agreement. Here we are talking about between 1 and 2 million refugees. I do not think that we can say in the same way that Turkey has made improper use of the situation. Turkey has tried to honour the agreement. Even for Turkey, it means a lot to be able to improve the situation in many of the refugee camps there. We shall continue to strive for the refugee agreement. In particular, it provides assistance to those who already exist as refugees in Turkey. They need the support. Otherwise, I agree with Jonas Sjöstedt's description of the situation and the challenges at the moment.
i-43674532d01138bf-42	Mr President, I would like to I do not usually recommend EU membership in general, but I think that every country should have the right to seek and decide for itself whether it wants to be a member. This also applies to Turkey. On this point, I agree with Mrs Wallström that the day that Turkey is once again a functioning democracy should be that door for that country – if Turkey so wishes. With regard to the refugee agreement, the Left Party has a different view. We believe that Turkey does not meet the requirements for receiving refugees in a good way. Nor does Turkey grant asylum to non-European citizens. There is widespread exploitation of Syrian refugees in Turkey. I believe that the agreement is more a sign of the failure of the EU and the international community to jointly take responsibility for the refugees from war Syria. We have debated this before, and we have different opinions. On the main issue of the interpellation, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a couple of clear messages, namely that Yüksekda, Demirtaş and the other political prisoners will be released as soon as possible – it is an important message from Sweden – further that the Swedish Embassy will be present in various ways in connection with the political trials and finally that Sweden will act bilaterally and via the EU to seek fair treatment and the release of HDP representatives at different levels. Selahattin told me that the world will decide whether they will be free or in prison. Now that time has come, and I hope that Sweden will be the country within the EU that stands up for political and human rights in Turkey.
i-43674532d01138bf-46	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Jonas Sjöstedt for his deep commitment and for the courage to do something – to go to Turkey. The system of sponsors is a good model. I respect the Left Party for that. Thank you also for important talks and good contacts that you cultivate with representatives of Turkish society and also for the good conversations and debates that we can have. It is important that developments in Turkey are reversed, and we contribute to this by drawing attention to it and by trying to conduct a constructive debate on the way forward.
i-43674532d01138bf-48	Mr President, I would like to Mr Linde has asked the Prime Minister whether he intends to highlight issues of democracy, human rights and the death penalty during his trip to Iran. Furthermore, Mr Linde wonders whether the Prime Minister intends to include representatives of independent human rights organisations and trade union representatives in his delegation to Iran. The interpellation has been handed over to me. It was faced with the visit to Iran on 11-12 February, which has now been carried out. Since the interpellation is answered after the trip has been completed, I will answer which aspects were highlighted during the trip. The human rights situation, as described by Mr Linde, is very serious in Iran, including the situation of women, religious minorities and dissidents. Torture and the death penalty are very serious and worrying. Human rights issues are always addressed in our meetings with Iran. We in Sweden have a tradition of being clear in terms of democracy and human rights, and we shall continue to be so. We are driving these issues within the UN and the EU, including by supporting the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran, Asma Jahangir. The government will continue to pursue the human rights issue with Iran, both bilaterally and multilaterally. The Prime Minister's visit was part of this work. The trip was carried out together with a large delegation of representatives of authorities, universities and companies. A senior representative of IF Metall was a member of the delegation. The government's strong commitment to human rights and democracy permeated the visit. Human rights issues, including the death penalty, discrimination against women and minorities and the treatment of dissidents, were addressed in the meetings attended by the Prime Minister, including those with President Hassan Rohani. During the visit, Prime Minister Molaverdi met with the Vice-President for Women and Family Affairs of Iran. The meeting was followed by a round table where the Prime Minister and Vice President Molaverdi, together with Iranian and Swedish representatives, discussed how to strengthen women's access to the labour market and participation in society. From the Iranian side, women were involved in Parliament, in companies and in civil society. The IF Metall representative also took part in this discussion. During the visit, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Vice-President Molaverdi and the Swedish Ministry of Social Affairs on cooperation to strengthen women's labour market participation and entrepreneurship. The agreement provides a basis for continued exchanges with Iran in this area and will be followed up in the future. A few weeks before the Prime Minister's visit, the Head of State for Foreign Affairs travelled to Iran to discuss human rights issues. We will continue to hold more specific talks with relevant Iranian representatives to complement our usual political dialogue, including on individual consular cases. The government supports you in the important work that civil society is doing to pay attention to human rights violations in Iran. We meet regular civil society organisations and collect their views. Prior to the trip to Iran, the Prime Minister had a meeting with representatives of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch on the human rights situation in Iran. The government will of course continue its dialogue with civil society.
i-43674532d01138bf-57	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I always appreciate having the opportunity to debate and discuss with Mrs Wallström in this House, but I would like to emphasise that this interpellation was addressed to the Prime Minister in order for us to discuss these important issues before his departure. After all, it was the Prime Minister who took part in the trip to Iran. Minister for Foreign Affairs Wallström did not participate. It is really no wonder that questions are raised and debate arises when the Swedish Prime Minister leads a large delegation to one of the toughest and most authoritarian dictatorships of our time. It is a country where there are no free zones from repression and where we see ethnic and religious minorities, LGBT people, trade unionists and opposition sympathizers in particular suffering from very severe repression. It is a country where girls and women are subjected to systematic and widespread oppression that permeates all parts of Iranian society. We know that in 2015 the Tehran regime executed at least 977 people. It is a regime that also plays a destructive role outside its borders. It supports Asad's war in Syria. It plays a very destructive role in both Iraq and Yemen. It is perhaps more surprising that the debate we have had on this journey has not really been about some of these things but about the dress of a minister. As a man and a feminist, I do not intend to review how individual ministers dress. I don't usually do that, and I won't do it today. I will focus on the issues that I think are important on this trip – how Sweden can be a clear voice for democracy and human rights and how we can conduct trade policy with a country where trade union rights are systematically violated. For me, it goes without saying that if we are to have an exchange with a country like Iran, human rights issues must be at the top of the agenda. We must never compromise on the key issues for us, such as women's and LGBTQ people's rights, freedom of the press and trade union rights. For me, it is important to see that trade policy can never be separated from human rights issues. It is sometimes said in Sweden that trade policy and Swedish exports automatically lead to democracy and human rights. That's not what it looks like. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of the opposite in Iran, where Swedish exports have sometimes even helped to strengthen the regime. At Minister Wallström, it sounds today that it was human rights and democracy that were at the top of the agenda when the Prime Minister went to Iran. But I have read what the government itself wrote for its journey. At that time, it was established that there would be a focus on bilateral cooperation, trade issues and development in the region. When the government itself was to formulate a press release on the Prime Minister's trip, it did not mention human rights, women's rights or trade union rights. It brought with it a very large number of representatives of the Swedish business community but only one trade union representative and no representative of human rights organisations. As I said, the Secretary of State did not take part in the trip. Nor did ministers responsible for democracy, gender equality or trade union issues. Instead, the Prime Minister took the Minister of Commerce with him. It clearly shows what the government's priorities were on this journey. It is clear to all of us who have followed the Prime Minister's journey to Iran that the purpose of the trip was to increase Swedish exports. It was to increase Swedish investments. Therefore, I have to ask Mrs Wallström, representatives of the so-called feminist foreign policy: why did the government choose to prioritise trade policy over human rights? Why did they choose to take so many from the business community but only one person from civil society? Why did the Prime Minister choose to bring the Minister for Trade but not the ministers responsible for equality, democracy and trade union rights?
i-43674532d01138bf-66	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate that we move from the headgear to the main thing when we discuss Iran and the relationship with Iran. Firstly, Mr Linde, it is not just a visit. It's about this being the first visit. It must of course be followed up, and then the question is how to put it in a good way so that you can actually do both – interested Iran in the visit and show what you can get out of it, but also promote human rights. I think I've explained it. But basically this debate is about isolation or contact. What relationship should we have with Iran, and what policy should we have with Iran? The truth is that lifting sanctions following the conclusion of the nuclear agreement offers Iran new opportunities for increased trade and more international and intergovernmental contacts. That, of course, is where it begins for them too. It is about getting a way in and being able to argue in such a way that we have to borrow their ear and have the opportunity to bring out also critical points of view, for that must be the case. Deeper exchanges also allow for dialogue on issues such as human rights. We believe that Sweden should not isolate itself. We should not stand here just pointing at Iran and barking at Iran, but taking the opportunity to create contact and dialogue. Not least, we sent our head of law from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who could have a very constructive contact and dialogue on human rights, on legislation and on all the issues related to how to create respect for human rights. V i means that it is through engagement, dialogue and cooperation in appropriate areas, combined with clear and strong messages, that we can contribute to positive developments in Iran. Remember that Iran is far from a homogeneous country; it has to be said. The long-term isolation of Iran has primarily benefited those parts of Iranian society that want to distance themselves from the outside world and protect existing structures and their own positions. On the other hand, we see that there are other forces in Iranian society that actually welcome increased engagement and international exchange, and these are those that are strengthened by the fact that we have deeper bilateral contacts. We believe that we do it best through increased trade and through dialogue and exchange in various areas. This visit was an expression of that. Of course, I am also looking forward to eventually visiting Iran. We do not see this as an individual event but have a continued mutual interest in an increased exchange. This also applies to issues raised in Iran. For example, there was talk of environment and environmentally friendly buses; Tehran has the world's worst city air. Environmentally friendly transport is an area where we can teach more. Health care and IT are other areas of interest. The visit has produced concrete results. Now we have five memoranda of understanding; it is Swedish companies that have concluded major agreements. That means something, and it also means a lot to motivate Iran to continue the dialogue. By sending a delegation with a large proportion of women and involving trade union representatives in the talks, we show that we stand for our values also in action.
i-43674532d01138bf-76	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I must note that, following an intense debate on Iran's journey over the last week, the House is quite empty. Those who have made great domestic political points on the trip shine with their absence now that we are really going to discuss what it was all about. I think it is a little speaking for the debate we have had. Then I think the Foreign Minister is painting a false contradiction. She says we have to choose between isolation and contact. I have not heard anyone advocating total isolation of the regime in Iran. We are talking about contact, but the question is what it should look like. There are situations between being 100% isolated and sending large business delegations to Tehran. There are intermediate routes to go. I believe, for example, that we need to reflect on our trade policy. I think we should trade with a country like Iran, not least because we have seen that total trade boycotts risk making everyday life for ordinary Iranians even more difficult. But the question is, what are we going to export and trade with? Historically, we have seen far too many examples of Sweden's failure to make clear demands on Swedish exports and the Swedish business community. I note that the Export Credit Board under the bourgeois government issued export guarantees to the Tehran regime of SEK 15 billion without any clear public impact assessments on, for example, trade union and human rights. We have seen how Swedish Ericsson has been criticised for exporting telecommunications systems to Iran, which, according to the opposition, is used by the regime to track down oppositionists. We do not want to see such trade. I also think it is important to have a dialogue with the regime in Iran, but the question is what it should be about. One is concerned when one reads a press release from the Swedish feminist government for a trip to Iran, where it is said that the purpose of the trip is bilateral cooperation, trade issues and development in the region. Issues of human rights, trade union rights and women's rights are not highlighted as priorities. What I would like to discuss, and which I think we need to think about, is how we support the counter-forces and pockets of resistance that exist in different parts of Iranian society. There is a courageous feminist movement in Iran. There are opposition groups in different parts of the country. There is above all a trade union movement that resists daily work. Although independent trade unions and the right to strike do not exist in Iran, we see that people organize themselves trade unions and try to form new trade unions and organise strikes. We see that the Tehran regime is suppressing all these attempts with extremely harsh repression. Trade unionists are imprisoned, persecuted and subjected to violence. I note that Stefan Löfven often talks about the Swedish model and highlights his Global Deal initiative, but we could not quite see this commitment when the Prime Minister went to Iran. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Wallström a few questions: Were trade union rights raised at Stefan Lövven's meetings with the Iranian leadership? Did he raise any of the individual cases of union representatives in prison? For example, did he lift up Jafar Azimzadeh, who was sentenced to eleven years in prison for engaging in unionism? Did Prime Minister E smail mention Abdi, Secretary General of a teacher's union, who is currently in Evin Prison? I also note that although a representative of IF Metall was brought along, this invitation was only three weeks before the trip to Iran, after the newspaper Work noted that no trade union representatives had been invited. Why does the government need media attention to bring union representatives with it? And why was it not invited with LO, Transport, Municipal and the Federation of Teachers, who are currently working with trade union rights in the Iran of dictatorship through a platform for Iran?
i-43674532d01138bf-87	Mr President, I would like to I think we are moving closer and closer together in our view of these issues. Now we are looking at the details of exactly how the delegation was put together and how trade relations should be formed, and that is perhaps more the trade minister's job than mys to describe. But the truth is that the Prime Minister raised the human rights situation at his bilateral meetings, including with the President, and so did the EU and Trade Minister at his meetings. This was received with respect for the Swedish position and for the great importance we attach to these issues. The lack of respect for women's human rights, the application of the death penalty, the lack of trade union rights and the imprisonment of activists and opponents were issues raised during the visit. Individual cases were also raised, as were consular cases. All of this was covered during the visit. I think it is a constant challenge to find the right composition in delegations and to find out who is going to join– you can always have views on that. I think the important thing is what happened during the visit. Memoranda of understanding were signed with Iran on transport, technology and innovation, IT, higher education and research, and on increasing women's influence. Swedish companies signed agreements, and this benefits the Swedish economy and the labour market. By sending a delegation of so many women, this matter was highlighted, both there and internationally. There was also a strong reaction to this: on one side of the table was the Swedish delegation with a large proportion of women, while on the other side – as was also pointed out in Iran – women were largely missing. We have shown that we stand for our values also in action, and these issues have been raised. Then you might think that it would have been more or that the delegation should have included a certain person, and you will have to learn from that and think about it until the next time. This was our first visit, and it is clear that it is always important how it is posted. Then I think you have a point that we should have mentioned human rights in our own presentation of the issues to be dealt with. It must be an oversight. But the important thing was that it was actually the focus to a very large extent. Iran is also so well informed that they know what issues we want to raise and pursue. It became a meaningful conversation. The fact that we sent our head of law from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to discuss human rights is yet another verdict because we take this very seriously. This was the beginning of a contact which, of course, we hope will be deepened. The Prime Minister himself told us that when they were at the vehicle factory they could see that it is a model; it looks the same at such a factory in Sweden. It will be an example for those who have a trade union interest and for everyone who works there. This, of course, spreads like rings on the water, at best. For the Prime Minister, this was definitely the focus of the talks, and he thought it was very important to be able to highlight this type of issue.
i-43674532d01138bf-96	Mr President, I would like to I think Mrs Wallström is reducing the question of how delegations are put together. It is clear that it matters in the meeting rooms whether it is with trade union representatives or only with business representatives. I thought that was quite obvious to a representative of the Social Democratic Workers' Party. It also makes a difference whether people from civil society are sitting at the table or not. It makes a difference whether there are human rights defenders sitting at the table or not. Unfortunately, what applies to this delegation is not an isolated example or an individual mistake. It has been the same when the government has sent large delegations to authoritarian states. We also saw it in the delegations to Vietnam, Saudi Arabia and the Philippines. Those who do not represent economic profit interests and business are fairly easily counted in delegations. Then I think there is quite a lot that we should discuss in terms of our relations with Iran. I think it is good that there is a nuclear agreement in place. I think it is good that parts of the sanctions linked to nuclear issues should be phased out. It also gives us an opportunity to perhaps shift focus. The discussion we have had with Iran in recent years has focused very much on nuclear issues and quite little on the other issues – the central issues that it is a country that systematically oppresses women and girls, executes LGBT people, imprisons trade unionists and plays a destructive role in the region, in Syria, Iraq and Yemen. Here I think we need to have much more discussion in the future. There I will certainly have the opportunity to return to Mrs Wallström, because I believe that these are the key issues in our relationship with the Middle East as a whole.
i-43674532d01138bf-99	Mr President, I would like to I agree with that. I believe that this is the beginning of a discussion that we must continue. As you say, Hans Linde, it is in fact the core agreement that has opened up this opportunity. It has opened up contacts, and then we need to discuss how they should be designed, what the agenda should look like and what issues we should pursue. I also take to heart what you say about the composition of delegations. It is an ongoing debate. We are already changing some of the views of the previous government on what such delegations would look like. I really think you need to discuss the composition of each individual case, but also in general: how do you put it all together so that you also have credibility? It is above all a question of having constructive meetings in place. There should be an opportunity for those who go with something to say about, so that they have a natural place in the delegation and also at the meetings that are held once you arrive. I don't take this lightly. I think that this is an important issue, both in principle and concretely, in each case. I think we should continue that discussion. But it is good that we share the view that the core agreement actually opened up to this opportunity. It will strengthen moderate and reformist forces in Iran. It will be an important but often difficult balancing process to be able to criticise where it is needed and really assert and stand by our values and our views on democracy, human rights, the role of women and so on, and to continue to maintain open contact on trade issues as well.
i-43674532d01138bf-113	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me when I judge that the goal of all new arrivals being in employment or education within two years will be fulfilled. Elisabeth Svantesson has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that all new arrivals are in employment or training after two years. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 150 000 people. Foreign births account for 70% of this increase. The outcome 90 days after the completion of the establishment plan in the establishment assignment has also improved since the government took office. The proportion that is either in work or in regular studies after 90 days has increased from an average of 28 per cent in 2014 to 33 per cent in 2016, despite the fact that the number of participants in the start-up assignment has increased significantly during the term of office. The fact that new arrivals will normally come to work or training after two years is an ambitious objective. Although the proportion of people going to work or training after completion of the establishment plan has increased, it is still far too low, especially among women. Many, mainly women, leave the labour force after the start-up assignment. In some counties, more women leave the labour force than go to work. Several measures have therefore been taken to increase the employment rate of women born abroad. The government has abolished the custody allowance and is now reviewing how parental insurance should be designed so as not to delay the establishment of the labour market. The Government has also commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to focus in particular on efforts to reduce unemployment among women born abroad. Increasing the proportion of new arrivals going to work or education after the start-up assignment poses a major challenge for the Public Employment Service. The Government therefore provides the Public Employment Service with improved conditions to meet this challenge through regulatory simplification, increased administrative resources and labour market policy initiatives. In the 2017 Budget Bill, the Government decided that the regulatory framework for the establishment assignment will be reviewed in order to reduce unnecessary administration and create the conditions for increased flexibility and efficiency in the assignment. Within the Government Office there is a review of the regulations applicable to the establishment of some newcomers in working and social life. The government has broadened the Employment Service's toolbox by opening up additional services for new arrivals, and the subsidy for new arrivals has been increased. In addition, the government has initiated internships in the state and fast track. A large part of the participants in the start-up assignment need multi-annual regular training measures in order to have an opportunity to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market. The government is investing in improved educational opportunities, including by proposing an extended knowledge boost and the introduction of study start-up support and by investigating the issue of CSN loans for driving licences. Cooperation between the Public Employment Service and the Public Employment Service also needs to be strengthened in order to increase the opportunities for short-term skilled women and men to start studying in municipal adult education. Employment services must be better at using their toolbox so that more new arrivals go to work and education. A systematised way of working within the establishment assignment is being implemented. Arbetsförmedlingen estimates that the new approach will help to ensure greater consistency and legal certainty in the services and that individuals will have more personalised and work-related activities. In particular, women's efforts in the establishment mission will have a stronger job focus than before as a result of the changed way of working.
i-43674532d01138bf-122	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Labour and Establishment, for your answer! I have asked my questions on the basis of the fact that words play a very important role. Words always matter, but they play a particularly important role when a minister or a minister expresses them. When ministers make a lot of promises and express objectives and promises, it is important that they also follow up and see where it all goes. My experience is that Ylva Johansson consistently promises very much but that the results do not follow what the Minister promises. Two years ago, the Minister said it would take two years for a new arrival to get to work. First of all, I would like to say that this is a laudable ambition, but it is somewhat naive at the moment. Today, we see that after nine years, only half are in work, and that could involve an hour's work a week or 40 hours a week. So there is a lot going in the wrong direction. When sending these signals from the government, it is important that we also follow up with a policy that can meet what is promised. Otherwise, I think you should be careful with promises. We are in a very difficult time in Sweden. We have a difficult task ahead of us. Many of the new arrivals who have arrived in Sweden in recent years have a low level of education. Although, as the Minister for Labour says, jobs and education have increased slightly for this group, fewer went to education in 2016 than in 2014. This is clearly problematic, because we know that the level of education is important. We have an agreement that we will review an education obligation. I think it is important that we get started on this too. Something has been delayed, to say the least. More people need to be educated. More people just have to hire themselves. It's a key, I think, for the future. But, of course, active employment policy will also require more. Of course, if you put 40 billion in taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and now want to add 20 billion more, it hits those who have the most difficulty getting in. Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson is quite pleased here in the speaker's chair that we have a boom and that it ticks well in the Swedish economy. Yeah, I think that's good. There are many things that are doing fantastically well in the Swedish labour market. However, despite the boom, the number of long-term unemployed is increasing. Despite the boom, new arrivals still find it very difficult to get to work. Then you can't do what you've always done. Then we need to have new reforms and new impetus, especially when we consistently promise to tackle unemployment and that it will take two years. My question to the Minister here today is: why does the Minister consistently promise much more than the Minister can deliver to the new arrivals?
i-43674532d01138bf-133	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer the last question first. Since I took office, I have said that I think that normally people should be able to get to work or training within two years. I stand by it. It's an assessment I make. What time does Elisabeth Svantesson normally think is reasonable? What goals you steer towards and what you think is reasonable affects what outcome you get. If you think it is normal and reasonable for it to take nine years to establish yourself in the labour market, you will also get that outcome. I think it is important that we steer towards what we think is reasonable – and that is, of course, a high level of ambition. Then there are always individuals who have more difficulties than others – I know that. But I'm talking about normal. If there are not many additional difficulties in entering the labour market or studying, it should be within the two-year period set up by the State for the start-up period. I fully share the view that if you want a different result, you cannot do what you have always done. That is why we are changing politics. Let me review some of the major problems that we see! An important issue is that many are short-skilled and that a missing small proportion of them participate in regular training – this applies both during the start-up assignment and after the start-up period. It's an equation that doesn't make sense. If you have very short education, you have to build on it in order to become viable in the Swedish labour market. I don't think you need to build up to the equivalent of a Swedish comprehensive school level, but you have to build on education – that's quite clear. That is why we need to introduce – it is Elisabeth Svantesson's proposal, which I think is a good one – a training obligation for new arrivals with short education. One obstacle to its implementation has been the legislation governing the establishment mandate. Now we are changing this so that it will be possible to make demands on the individual in the establishment assignment. You can then assign people, for example, to regular training and require them to participate in it in order to receive their remuneration. I hope that, on the same day as legislation is in place, we will be able to introduce a training obligation that will apply to all card-trained people. We see a major problem with women leaving the labour force. A very good part of the reform when it comes to the start-up assignment – not all parts were good – is that all men and women are individually enrolled in AF and have an individually based remuneration in the start-up allowance. Unlike family-based benefits, such as income support, there is a strong incentive for both men and women to participate. It really pays off. If one goes from pay to work, the family income increases significantly. That's very good. We now see the effect. We have women who go directly into the labour force, as they enter the Employment Service. But we also see that after two years a great many people disappear from the labour force. In some counties more people disappear from the labour force than go into work. It is, of course, very serious. How do we keep these women in the workforce? There is no labour market policy in the world that bites if you are not even at the disposal of the labour market. Clearly, such things as parental insurance are important in terms of incentives. But I also think there are other things you can do. I believe that, for example, start-up support for funding studies even after the start-up period will be important, not least for short-skilled women. We have also seen another major problem with current legislation, as the Public Employment Service testifies. It is that many have empty establishment plans. They don't contain anything or very little. Under current legislation, the Employment Service cannot go in and change it. That is why we need to change the legislation. Such a proposal is on its way. A legislative referral will be decided shortly, so that we can have a different order, in which we can make the same demands on new arrivals as we do on other unemployed people.
i-43674532d01138bf-142	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that answer. Nine years is, of course, a terrible and a horrifying long time, especially given that there have now come a great many new ones to Sweden. If the development continues at the same pace, in a few years' time we will have a huge number of people in exclusion, not only in exclusion areas in large cities but also in many of our smaller municipalities around Sweden. I believe that when you say two years and set it as an ambition goal, a policy must also be linked to it. As the Minister has said, yes, we are now changing the law of establishment and making a regulation. Yeah, we're in on that. I think it's very good. But if it is the answer that means that it will now go much faster for people to get to work, Sweden has big problems ahead. Of course, we also need a strong employment policy, and we need more simple jobs, Mr President. The head of government has said on several occasions that he thinks that some 30,000 simple jobs are needed in Sweden – it is jobs that do not require high education. But we know that 150 000 people are unemployed and have a very low level of education. Many of them need to be educated – absolutely. But I think it's naive to think they're all going to go on to higher education. We need to work on employment policy. But we also need to make demands, as the Minister was concerned about. Now, when we remake the establishment law, it becomes a little easier to make demands on individuals. In conclusion, however, I would like to ask the Minister a question in this round. I think the Minister has the right focus on women. It is very worrying that we have so many women who after the start-up mission leave the labour force – often they are low-skilled, but not always. What kind of policy can we then continue to demand, and what kind of policy should we put on them? The Minister is asking a number of questions. Since the minister has responsibility and governs the kingdom, I wonder: What are the answers? I travel around Sweden and talk to these women. It can be in a sfi class that I meet a woman who has been in Sweden for ten years and who speaks a very tricky Swedish. I can hike in Fittja or go to Vivalla. Wherever I am, I meet women who, because of outdated norms here in Sweden, live less modern and less free here than they did in their home country. What can we and what will the government do about this? As the Minister says, there is no labour market policy in the world that bites, not a single job tax deduction either – if I am to admit it. Other types of action are needed to access these structures. I think that something that is incredibly important is social information, which is given at the beginning. It needs to be tightened up. It needs to become, as we have proposed, mandatory for real. You should have a sample connected to it. So we do not really have any demands for a real obligatorium. Nor do we have any requirements regarding Swedish for immigrants, SFI. Well, the requirement is that you be there for two years, during your time of establishment. But we have no requirement to achieve a single grade. You can go to Sfi for two years without learning Swedish. We have a very undemanding integration policy, generally speaking. Here I want to see more sharp action from the government. First, to promise and set ambitious targets in two years' time and then not to have a concretely powerful policy that is linked to it creates problems, and the problems will grow in the future. You ask questions and ask yourself what you are going to do to get these women into the workforce. I think we should expect more from a government, namely that proposals should also be made at Parliament's table on how these women should enter the labour force.
i-43674532d01138bf-151	Mr President, I would like to I think this is a constructive debate, and there are several issues in which we can work together on the solutions. Let me first say that training efforts are a very important element. It is not a question of the vast majority entering academic education, but rather of about a third of the new arrivals having a very short education. Although a high level of education will not be achieved, it is not possible to overcome the need to invest in education in order to gain a foothold in the labour market and to assert their autonomy in society. There is also a relatively large group – also about a third – which I would describe as inadequately educated. These people do not necessarily have a very short education, but the education is not long enough for them to be able to defend their places in the Swedish labour market. In the current economic situation, there is a great demand for a great many professions that do not require a huge length of vocational training. For example, there is a great shortage of vehicle mechanics, sheet metal repairers, carers, nurses, and cooks. These professions are a realistic level of education for the group that has an inadequate but not very short education with them. It is important that we get these people into these vocational training courses. This area is a great disappointment, and here I think you should be self-critical– I myself am. We haven't succeeded. We have invested heavily in education, but the result of getting people into these educations is so far very limited. One of the major challenges continues to be to ensure that people really do learn about the professions where there is a shortage. For women, of course, there is a need for a wide range of actions. This is particularly true of the short-skilled, who tend to disappear from the labour market, but not just those. The government, as I said, has already removed the custody allowance. This contribution almost exclusively went to that group, which thus disappeared from the labour market. We have now come up with proposals for changes and limitations in parental insurance, because what is there to support an equal labour market has proved to be a trap for women when they come to Sweden and already have children. It is important that we can make these changes. We have a new assignment for Arbetsförmedlingen. It is important to look at the evaluations that have been carried out, where it has been shown that men and women are treated differently. I think we should make clear demands. I think it is reasonable that you give good opportunities to those who are new in Sweden to establish themselves, but you should also make demands. It is a matter of reciprocity that includes both opportunities and requirements for the individual. That is why it is important that we now get this change of law. It was very unfortunate that the previous government had detailed legal regulation of everything relating to the establishment mission. Unfortunately, we have a slow legislative process in this country, which means that it takes time to change something. But now we're here. Now comes a legislative referral and proposal to the Riksdag, so that there is a completely different flexibility. I am happy to discuss with Elisabeth Svantesson how we will design an education obligation that includes both social information as well as SFI and other basic education for the short-skilled within the establishment assignment. I believe that this is important, not least in order to strengthen the position of women in the labour market.
i-43674532d01138bf-162	Mr President, I would like to One can blame the previous government and the slow legislative process if one wishes to do so, but it is also possible to put forward sharp proposals for new arrivals to come to work at a much higher pace than this government has done. I could make many suggestions– I will not tire out too many of us, but let me mention some suggestions for measures that I think should be taken right now. A proposal is about redistributing. We have a labour market training that the state, or government, spends 1.8 billion on every year. Cut it in and direct it towards short vocational training for people who need it! Employers should be involved in the process, so that training can lead to work. In our budget, we have set aside money for municipalities to be able to work in parallel with language education and vocational training. It is possible to shorten that process. A third proposal concerns wage subsidies. There is a clear proposal on how to simplify wage subsidies, so that they are actually of use and use. Another proposal, which I think is concrete and good, is to allow the municipalities that are good at labour market policy to take over the establishment. Many municipalities do a very good job – much better than the Public Employment Service at the moment. I have now mentioned some concrete proposals. I think it is time for the Minister for Labour to stop consistently promising many things without coming to Parliament with sharp legislation and sharp proposals on how more foreign born people will get to work more quickly. Unless this is done quickly, it will go really badly, because there are many new arrivals who are far from self-sufficiency. This is sometimes because there are no requirements and sometimes because there are too few simple jobs where you live. There are many reasons, but the government must act. I would like to emphasise that I think that the time for promising gold and green forests must be up. Instead, work should be done to put forward proposals that lead to jobs.
i-43674532d01138bf-170	Mr President, I would like to Much of what Elisabeth Svantesson here paints as news is already being done. The government is investing heavily in regular vocational training. The government is investing heavily in a new collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities, not least when it comes to new arrivals. We have already done some, and there is more to be done in terms of simplifying and streamlining employment aid. Generally, perhaps the most important question for new arrivals to come to work is where to get a dwelling and how to get a dwelling. It's well documented from research and experience – and it's not surprising – that it matters very much where you live. The possibility of getting a job is greatly affected if you live in a region where there are plenty of jobs or in a region where jobs are scarce. This is not surprising. What is surprising, however, is that for many years we have been living people in the regions where jobs are very scarce, while we have relatively few people living in the regions where there are plenty of jobs. This, of course, creates unnecessary problems. It is much harder to find jobs in Lessebo, Hultsfred or Avesta, where you already have a lot of new arrivals and not the very best job market. At the same time, there are municipalities in the Stockholm area, for example, that have historically received few new arrivals – some have received almost none at all – and have a strong labour market. The new legislation, which allows us to distribute newcomers more evenly across the country, is one of the single most important things that policy can govern when it comes to influencing people's chances of getting into work. This is also the assessment that the OECD highlights when looking at Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I have explained in previous speeches what I think is necessary to do – for example, to take specific measures with regard to short-skilled women. We will come back with even more sharp proposals than those we have already put forward.
i-43674532d01138bf-176	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the working environment for the country's ambulance staff. He has also asked me whether I and the government intend to take specific measures to safeguard the working environment in troubled suburbs. It is totally unacceptable that important carriers of society, such as ambulance staff, should be exposed to threats and violence. The government takes the problem very seriously. A special investigator has been tasked with considering and proposing the changes needed to provide modern criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and other societal functions. An ambitious health and safety policy is a top priority for the government. The resources in the area of health and safety at work have therefore been increased by over SEK 100 million per year during the term of office. A new national strategy on health and safety at work is in place. A special investigator will shortly propose the establishment of a new national centre for knowledge and assessment of health and safety at work. At the same time, another special investigator submits an assessment of the effectiveness of existing provisions on occupational safety and health liability, given the challenges of modern working life. No worker should have to endure threats or violence at his or her workplace. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations therefore require risk prevention measures and how the work for an improved working environment should be followed up in all work where there may be a risk of an employee being exposed to violence and threats. All incidents shall be investigated and documented, and the individual affected shall receive rapid assistance and support. The occupational safety and health rules apply equally throughout the country and regardless of which activity is carried out.
i-43674532d01138bf-180	Mr President, I would like to The question was about what the government intends to do in order to contain the work environment in troubled suburbs and what it intends to do to ensure the working environment for ambulance personnel. According to the answer, reference is made to coordinators and to a centre of knowledge. But the question is urgent here and now. Help is needed now – not after a coordinator has considered a number of shipyards and then returned proposals. Mr President, I would like to One of the most fundamental tasks of the state is to guarantee the security and security of citizens, whether they want a large state or a small state. We are in the situation that many people in our country feel that the law of Sweden does not apply in certain suburbs. It is violence, threats and oppression that can affect all citizens living on the ground. Sometimes riots occur as soon as a police officer, fireman or ambulance appears in the area. It is a work environment that no one should have to endure. And what is the government doing on this issue? Very little, I would say. You promise around, but you keep thin. As I said earlier, a special investigator is not the answer to the urgent problem today. If you work in healthcare, you have chosen a profession to help and make the world better, not to endure threats or violence from those to be cared for or by spectators at the scene of the accident. I read a study from 2011 that shows that ambulance staff experience threats or violence during their hours quite often. At the time, 16 percent had been subjected to physical violence, and that was six years ago. Now it is much worse, and the number of darkness is of course great. Later reports show that up to 25 percent of ambulance staff have been subjected to violence, and it is even worse in Gothenburg. There, more than half of them have been subjected to violence, I could read in a co-worker. Once ambulance personnel have come to help, they may return to broken vehicles and not be able to go on with a patient who needs help. It is an unimaginable situation and a working environment that no one should have to endure. It also happens that someone steals your tools when helping a person in distress on the spot. It is absolutely amazing that we have ended up in a situation like this. Not knowing if you can go to the hospital with a person who needs care is a stressful situation and must be a terribly unpleasant feeling. Ambulance personnel who are supposed to help get sick from work, and it is a poor working environment. Of course, most of these people who live in our troubled suburbs are careful. They want nothing more than law and order. Now the government must show that it is running the country and acting forcefully, not handing over to criminal gangs or oppressors. Now even the entrepreneurs in Husby have had enough. It is so serious that they can no longer conduct their business without suffering threats, robbery and harassment. If companies leave, it will be an even worse place to live. It is absolutely essential that we have our entrepreneurs in our suburbs, otherwise we have no service to offer those who live there. This is a development that we do not want to see. The owners of Husby even closed the Centre one day to protest that the site is so unsafe. And they ask for help; they want more cops. This is not just what it looks like in Stockholm, but in about fifty exclusion areas around Sweden.
i-43674532d01138bf-192	Mr President, I would like to The question falls in two parts. When it comes to work environment management, the government has already delivered. We have increased the resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority considerably. More inspectors are being hired to carry out more inspections. We have a new work environment strategy and new regulations regarding, among other things, psychosocial work environment, which also include threats or fears of being exposed to threats even if the threat is not carried out. Much has already been delivered in this area. The issues raised here by Erik Andersson are to a large extent about the risk of being subjected to criminal acts and gangs during their professional activities. It is, of course, extremely serious to be exposed, or subjected, to criminal acts and gangs in the pursuit of their profession, which in many cases is about helping and protecting people. All of this will not be resolved in the context of health and safety at work policy, but it is also a matter of sharper measures. It's about more cops. That is why the government has invested in more police officers and we also have more police officers in Sweden today. We will have to continue along that path. We will need even more police officers, visible police officers in areas where threats and violence are at risk. We also need stronger legislation and stricter sanctions. It is important to do things within the framework of work environment management. It is of course important that the employer has an occupational safety and health responsibility. But we must face the truth that this will not be solved solely in the context of health and safety at work policy. There is also a need for more police officers and action in the area of Justice. The government has appointed a special investigator precisely to propose the legislative changes and punitive measures that may be called for because people are exposed to threats and violence in their professional activities. It is then a question of changing the criminal sanctions for bluelight personnel and other socially useful functions that may be exposed to this. I think it's very important. Of course, these two things do not take each other out. We need to invest in work environment work in a more traditional sense, but there, of course, threats and violence are also an important issue. We also have a zero vision of fatal accidents, which also fits well into. But that's not enough. There is also a need for more police officers and a willingness to tighten up the rules on criminal law.
i-43674532d01138bf-199	Mr President, I would like to That was the question, but what the answer says has been delivered does not help the emergency situation here and now for the ambulance staff or the entrepreneurs in the troubled suburbs. The government says there have been more policemen, but there are also a lot of police. I do not think it is the general picture that the Swedish people feel that there have been more police officers at all. There is uncertainty which we must take very seriously and try to prevent as quickly as possible. Now the government has been in office for two and a half years. This problem is not new in itself, but it has escalated in recent years. I've been asking questions in the interpellation about just worried suburbs. These residential areas could actually flourish, for they are close to the city, proximity to good public transport and high population density. So there is a basis for doing something good. But unfortunately, the reality is daily drug sales on the open street and worry about going out at night and night. Both small and organised crime must be tackled. There is no need for more subsidies, but more police, present police, so that people can feel safe. It is not provocative to have police in place, but it is a matter of course if you want life to work normally. In a Norwegian TV feature a while ago, a policeman showed where the square was, but he himself was afraid to enter the square because it could be provocative. Then you have abdicated completely and let others decide the agenda, that is, the criminals. In Husby and Akalla, the Social Democrats receive 40 – 50 percent of the votes. It's your constituents we're talking about. For me, it is important that everyone in Sweden should be able to live in security and not in insecurity. It is therefore quite incomprehensible that nothing is happening, that you are not doing anything. It is not a good working environment and not a good living environment. We must ensure that the faith and hope of the future come back. The Moderates spend more than the government on the police, and we want to see functioning policemen all over the country, everywhere. Now it is more important than ever, when security is challenged in every corner. Progress is going in the wrong direction in many suburbs. Women in particular feel insecure. One third of all women feel insecure in today's Sweden, where we have a feminist government. There is much talk and few proposals from a government supported by the Left Party. It is extremely serious for Sweden and for everyone who lives here. I can tell the government that I was in Tensta city center this week. What I saw is the need for economic growth and not for more criminals. There is also a need to make it easier for entrepreneurs, but the government is acting on the contrary when it comes to entrepreneurs. You raise taxes on entrepreneurs and jobs. We need economic growth in these areas.
i-43674532d01138bf-209	Mr President, I would like to I do not know what debate Erik Andersson really is having. Would I have thought it provocative to send police officers where there are criminals? It's the police's job, and that's why the government is investing in more cops. Police officers should preferably not be provocative, but they will intervene. That's what we got cops for, and that's why we're betting on more cops. I think that was a strange statement. The issue of people experiencing that there are more police officers is important. It is also an important question whether there are more police officers. There are more cops, but we're going to need even more. The challenges that Erik Andersson addresses are far greater than health and safety issues, as I said in my previous speech. In order to deal with them, it is important that we have changed direction in politics. Tax cuts are not the solution to insecurity in vulnerable neighbourhoods. The solution is investment in jobs, school and welfare. It is also investment in more police officers and ensuring that we have sufficient criminal sanctions so that we can also protect people in this way. This is also what the government is doing. Society has to take responsibility and not abdicate. Fortunately, we see that in several of the districts of Stockholm's municipality that Erik Andersson lifts up in his interpellation we have a development in terms of jobs, health and social welfare dependency that is moving in the right direction. That is a good thing, and this development must continue. However, these issues are not mutually exclusive. The base is investment in jobs, education and welfare, but we also need more police officers and sharper and more effective legislation and prosecution of those who commit crimes and actions against those who are at risk of committing crimes. Some of these crimes are threats and violence against blue-light personnel, which is, of course, unacceptable from all angles.
i-43674532d01138bf-215	Mr President, I would like to I didn't say the government thought it was provocative. I said that according to the TV feature on Norwegian television, a policeman felt that it could provoke entering the square and that it could incite the people who were there. It's crazy that we have a situation where a policeman doesn't dare go into a square in Sweden. This interpellation debate is about the work environment – although a work environment that the employer may not be able to influence at all times, but that is how the question was raised in the interpellation. When I was in Tensta this week talking to the inhabitants, I got the feeling that the police are not present all the time. It is a big problem because once the police are present in the cityscape everyone thinks something has happened, and then the customer base folds in Tensta center. If people think something criminal has happened, they get scared and don't want to stay, which is perfectly understandable. Therefore, an ever - present police officer is required to make it a common feature of the cityscape. That is why it is extremely strange when the feminist government is talking about security and the new police station in Rinkeby is also being delayed. It will possibly be completed in 2019. I don't know how it can take that long.
i-43674532d01138bf-219	Mr President, I would like to My view is that we have professional police officers with both competence and judgment who do a fantastic and very important job. I find it hard to see that it would be a problem that we have police presence in neighborhoods and malls. We need it. On the question that the interpellation concerns, the working environment for blue light personnel, I have answered that there are efforts made regarding the work environment through the Swedish Work Environment Agency and more inspectors and that there is a special review of penalties for protecting blue light personnel and other socially important interventions. Unfortunately, the question of the timetable for the police station in Rinkeby is not up to date in this interpellation debate.
i-43674532d01138bf-222	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what the government intends to do to facilitate the opportunities for labour migration that secures long-term access to relevant skills in professional areas in Sweden. He has also asked what the government intends to do to streamline and simplify the handling of labour immigration cases. As far as the first question is concerned, I would like to start by reminding you that it was the previous government that introduced today's regulations, which Mr Rothenberg now regards as not working well. Hans Rothenberg also argues that labour migration has decreased for several years in a row. That's not true. The number of migrant workers has remained relatively constant since the introduction of the current rules in 2008. In addition, a recent review of the Swedish National Audit Office shows that it is mainly in low-skilled professions, where there is no direct shortage of labour in Sweden, that labour migration has decreased. The number of highly qualified professionals who are in short supply, such as IT engineers, has increased continuously in recent years. The government takes the issue of Sweden's skills supply very seriously. In December last year, the government received the report "Strengthening the position of labour migrants in the labour market" (SOU 2016:91), which highlights, among other things, the problem of foreign workers not being allowed to extend their work permits as a result of minor mistakes on the part of the employer. The study proposes, among other things, an opportunity for employers who have made mistakes in terms of, for example, pay and insurance to correct them before the extension application is submitted. The report is now being consulted. With regard to the issue of the processing of labour migration cases, I would like to emphasise that I share Mr Rothenberg's view on the importance of short processing times. Rapid management enables Swedish employers to compete for international competence in an increasingly global labour market. The Government has therefore commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service in this year's regulation letter to develop an action plan for how the handling of both new and extension cases within work permits can be significantly shortened. The focus shall be on measures that increase productivity and reduce the time from the submission of the application to the decision. A prerequisite for quick processing is, of course, that the applicants submit complete and accurate data. The Finnish Immigration Service will therefore also develop a strategy for a more efficient accessibility and service in order to improve information for applicants. It should simply be easy to do the right thing. In this context, it is important to remember that the Migration Agency also has the task of combating abuse of the system. It is therefore important that there is a balance between the need for prompt handling and the need to combat abuse. Lack of control risks contributing to the exploitation of individual workers and the erosion of the Swedish labour market model. Good terms and conditions shall apply to all persons working in Sweden. The Government is now waiting for the aforementioned referrals and is closely following the Migration Agency's processing of work permits in connection with the assignments in this year's regulatory letter. In view of this, I do not currently see any reason to take further action on this issue.
i-43674532d01138bf-235	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. This is an issue that is drowning somewhere in the migration debate that is taking place in society. It is clear that there are major challenges and a lot of problems in dealing with refugee migration. These are challenges that require much of Swedish society and also put a strain on many individuals. Labour migration is another aspect of migration. It is necessary for Sweden and Swedish entrepreneurship to work and for us to be able to develop on the international market and be competitive. There are skills shortages in several professions in Sweden, and in many places it is acute. This applies both to welfare and to the production and services sectors. If nothing is done soon, Sweden risks losing jobs and companies abroad. There are many examples of cases where people who have worked for a long time in Sweden are allowed to leave the country because simple administrative mistakes have been made. The consequences for the people affected and their employers are usually disproportionate to the mistakes that have been made. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned it earlier, and it is worth repeating: access to good skills is crucial in today's competitive world, not least in the field of IT, where there are many companies competing for labour in a global market. Through labour migration there are good opportunities for recruiting employees from other countries. On the other hand, the processing time of a work permit can be very long, creating unnecessary uncertainty and costs. Sweden must work even when there is a great deal of pressure on asylum. Therefore, faster processing times for work permits are needed. If you do everything right, you should get an answer within 30 days. It needs to be ensured that the processing of applications for work permits is not sidelined by asylum cases, for example, because this is another task. The Minister commented in his reply that it is the regulatory framework introduced by the Alliance Government that I criticise. No, I'm not criticising the rules. On the other hand, I criticise the way in which the rules are complied with and that they are far too long processing times. It creates uncertainty. The Government's task is to govern the country and give the Migration Agency the tools needed to be able to respond to a reasonable and relevant processing time. Many companies, universities and higher education institutions today need to seek expertise from outside – from other countries – many times on rather short notice. Here you cannot wait six to ten months to get in labour that you would actually need in the space of two months, max. This mobility will only increase. Mobility requirements and the smooth management of public authorities in all countries will also increase. This is tomorrow and the future, and that is what we have to relate to. That's where it needs to be done properly to shorten the times. We in the Moderates claim that 30 days is a reasonable and acceptable time. With regard to the directives given by the Minister to the Migration Agency, I wonder: what time does the Minister consider relevant for the management of labour migration?
i-43674532d01138bf-246	Mr President, I would like to The supply of skills is one of the most critical issues for employers, both private and public, who often struggle to find skilled workers. We have a national responsibility to be able to match things better when we develop our education systems in primary and secondary schools and in post-secondary education. But I think we should note that this will never be enough. There is always a need to find people who come from other countries – in the immediate vicinity or a little further away – and contribute to Swedish society. That is one important aspect. The second is that we have a trend and development in the world that you can call a talent recruitment or competition for talent. Whether we are talking about good IT technologies or university researchers and others, it is often an international labour market. If we are serious about exciting research and education environments, an exciting and growing IT sector or whatever it is – perhaps the life science sector in Hans Rothenberg and my own hometown – the international dimension is crucial. Labour immigration rules are indeed a key issue there. We cannot have the application we have at present, but we must see in different ways how we through the rules but also many other things in society can be better at attracting talented people to Sweden, within a number of parts of Swedish society. A number of years ago, we had considerably better and more liberal rules for labour immigration, which I think has essentially worked well. However, we have challenges with regard to their application. There are two major problems in particular. One is about the pure application of the Migration Agency to so-called review. Earlier they looked a little more at the whole, but now they are looking at for example a single salary payment a month, where a few crowns can allow a person to leave the country. At the same time, we have a discussion on how to get the people who have come to Sweden through the immigration of asylum in recent years into work. And then we throw out people who work and pay taxes-- that's not reasonable. The Parliament has made a decision with an invitation to the government to address this. I very much hope that the government will make sure to get to the finish here so that the whole, not the individual details, can be looked at and corrected. In fact, good scientists and IT technicians have an important role to play. Then there are the processing times, which are weighed down by the migratory pressure we have. It may take a very long time, but there is also uncertainty. For example, you might want to re-examine and send in what is needed about it. There are cases in Sweden today where we have researchers at universities and colleges who do not know if they can go to an international research conference because their permit may expire and they will not enter the country again. This is not reasonable. Our response from the Moderates has been to do two things. One is to set a deadline and say that it is reasonable that an application for a residence or work permit in Sweden in the no rmal case should be handled within 30 days. The second thing that is needed to make this happen is to earmark part of the Finnish Immigration Service's administrative appropriations and tell the authority that this money should only be used for residence and work permits. Finally, Mr President, my question is: is the Minister of Migration prepared to do more than that with a strategy and a mission, for example earmarking resources from the Migration Agency to ensure that they really go to this important process? My second question is: what does the Minister think is a reasonable processing time for residence and work permits?
i-43674532d01138bf-260	Mr President, I would like to I think we all agree that companies must have access to the skills they need. This is strategically extremely important for Sweden as an industrial and growth nation. The provision of skills can be achieved through education within the country, and it is therefore important to invest in education and to expand primary, secondary and higher education. But some skills we need to obtain abroad, via labour migration. When recruiting people from other countries, in order for the Swedish labour market model to work, it is necessary to ensure that those who come here have good working conditions and are guaranteed contractual wages, that the company pays insurance, that social security contributions are paid and that the tax to be paid is paid. This is important to ensure that the people who come here do not end up in a situation of exploitation. Lars Helmered and Hans Rothenberg do not agree with me when I say that the problems they raise are due to the legislation that they themselves have been involved in pushing through. Okay, but my opinion is that's actually the case. The legislation of the Alliance government, in my opinion, had problems. One is that if there are errors and taxes, contributions and wages are not paid properly, it is the employee who is taking the full blow, while the employer does not have to risk anything at all. That is how this legislation is designed. The second problem is that if employers subsequently discover that they have made mistakes, there is currently no way for them to correct this before an application for an extension is submitted. This has meant that some have simply had to go home and search again, because this opportunity does not exist. These are two major problems with the legislation passed by the Alliance. We saw this already in 2015. We therefore had a special study set up, which brought me a report last December. Firstly, there is criminal liability for employers, who must ensure that they do the right thing. If employers do not do the right thing and there is a purpose in it, they will suffer a penalty. Secondly, there is an opportunity for employers to correct minor mistakes afterwards so that workers do not have to be placed in such a situation. The referral deadline for the investigation is Monday. The government will prepare this further and produce legislative referrals and a bill to correct these two parts. When it comes to processing times, we have had to work very hard to try to shorten them and try to make sure that they are reasonable, given that we have had a very heavy burden on the Migration Agency. I note that in the case of first-time applications for professions requiring in-depth university competence, the average processing time according to the January statistics is 48 days. Of course, we will try to shorten it further. It is not enough, but it is now in force. I do not understand how you can at the same time demand more when, in the second breath, you want to cut down on the Migration Board by SEK 500 million, as the Moderates' draft budget shows.
i-43674532d01138bf-273	Mr President, I would like to Behind this issue – we can drill ourselves into technical details, talk about such important ambitions and set goals for processing times – there are people who come to Sweden with good ambitions to do their own thing and make an effort. These people work in companies that have good ambitions to do the right thing, be able to develop and take advantage of the skills that can contribute to this development. There are individuals behind this. Let me give you a few examples. Over the past six months, there have been more and more reports of foreign citizens who have come to Sweden to work and create a new life. Instead, they have been forced to leave the country. An Iranian man, who has lived in Sweden since 1999, worked and paid taxes, is to be expelled because his position has not been advertised properly. A man from Bangladesh, who has studied four years in Sweden and who after the studies has got a job, will be expelled because he received the position via an advertisement on Linkedin that was not visible to people living throughout the EU, EEA and Switzerland. A man from Pakistan, who has also studied in Sweden and is now working on programming in Stockholm where he is one of his company's leading employees, will be expelled due to a bureaucratic technicality. Swedish legislation stipulates that an employee from a non-EU country must have the same conditions and insurance as a Swedish employee under collective agreements. That is a good ambition. However, in the case of that man, the Migration Board considers that his former employer has not paid sufficient remuneration for his pension insurance, which means that the work permit is not now extended. This is an unreasonable situation, and this applies not only to large companies but also to small ones. The small company Score, which has 55 employees from 20 nations, has an employee who has to leave the country because of a small rule that will allow this priceless coworker to quit his job there. These are some examples of how it can work – the practical reality. That is what we in the political system must relate to and correct. The steps taken by the Alliance during its reign were good steps. We also need to refine the rules and laws that have been created during this time. The reality is moving forward, and we have to deal with that. Trade unions, together with business organisations, think that this is one of the really big challenges. The only trade union organization of the big ones who are not really on that track is LO. LO has recently argued in favour of tightening the possibilities for people outside the EU to come here and work. Similar voices are now heard from different parts of Europe. Saco and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise are the two leading organisations that look with great concern at this development. Only this week, LO and the Social Democrats went out to DN Debate and argued in favour of tightening the rules on labour migration and in practice re-establishing the labour market test. These are tendencies that go against what the Minister is now saying, and I hope that is what the Minister is saying in this debate that goes forward. Sweden needs to have flexible rules for labour migration.
i-43674532d01138bf-284	Mr President, I would like to Labour immigration is extremely important for Sweden, for Swedish companies and for public employers. The big task for us in the future, I think, is to nurture and develop the regulatory framework that we have. Essentially, it is a good piece of legislation, but we need to polish and develop it. We have a number of challenges that really are causing it for employers in Sweden. In Stockholm, Gothenburg and so on, we have an exuberant and exciting IT sector. The employers I visit figuratively tear down their hair when it comes to labour immigration. This concerns, for example, the issue of processing times. It may take you a very long time. It creates an extraordinary amount of uncertainty when you do not know if it takes two months or eight months. Then perhaps a possible worker has already been agreed on wages and other conditions. But then there may not be any of this. At the same time, there is an incredible amount of pressure to develop companies. This applies not only to this industry but to many others. In my hometown of Gothenburg we have Astra Zeneca who brings in 300 foreigners every year. For this type of employer it must work very smoothly, but it does not work today. Mr President, I would like to I think there are a couple of things that we need to deal with politically in this regard. One is that the Government has a responsibility to carry out Parliament's decisions. It is about looking to the whole and being able to correct errors. There I have a hope, given what the Minister says, that this will be resolved. The second concerns the question of the length of proceedings. I think that you should be able to offer a service guarantee and say that normally it should not take longer than 30 days to process an application. You should also be able to earmark resources at the Migration Agency for this to happen. Finally, I would like to repeat my question. Is the Minister prepared to set such a deadline, for example 30 days? Is the Minister prepared to earmark resources for this to happen?
i-43674532d01138bf-289	Mr President, I would like to Lars Helmered says that it is basically a good piece of legislation. No, it is not a good piece of legislation when the consequences of it are that workers will have to take the whole blow if any mistakes are made. Then it is not a good piece of legislation that you pushed through in 2008. Surely you have to see that all the cases that Mr Rothenberg here is following up are a direct consequence of the legislation that you yourself pushed through. This is the law of the Alliance. That is what the regulatory framework looks like that you made up and voted for. That's what it looks like. It is not a good piece of legislation when the employee takes the full blow. It is not good legislation when there is no possibility for the employer to correct the errors, even if they are detected. You end up in some kind of Kafka-like situation. You know that you may have made a mistake a few years ago. Then we try to correct it afterwards. But the regulatory framework and the bureaucracy look in such a way that it is not actually capable of doing so. Then it is not a good piece of legislation. This is exactly what we saw in 2015. We need to investigate and correct this, and I received a report in December. The referral period expires on Monday, and we will then proceed to Parliament with this as soon as possible in order to correct the very problems you raise. But do not blame the present government for things that you were actually involved in pushing through. I don't think that's very wise. Hans Rothenberg said that sometimes there can be some technicalities and bureaucratic little rules that cause trouble. But I will say that if you do not pay enough wages, if you have not paid insurance, if you have not paid social security contributions and if you have not paid taxes, then it is not a question of technicalities, but it is a regulatory framework aimed at actually protecting people from exploitation. There are plenty of examples of how people have actually been exploited in these situations. That is why my basic position is that there must be a regulatory framework for this. If you are not able to do this by mistake and there are minor errors, it should be able to heal afterwards, and that is what this is all about. However, we must be careful how we express ourselves about the regulatory framework that exists. It is stated in the interpellation that labour migration has declined. Well, that's not the case – labour migration is actually quite stable over the years. Last year 13 000 residence permits were granted to workers. What has declined over the years is the state of the low-skilled professions. If we look at berry pickers and planters, we see that in 2009 7 200 such permits were granted. In 2016 it was 3,200. It is thus a halving of berry pickers and other seasonal workers who have come to Sweden to work. If I look at IT architects, computer specialists, system developers and civil engineers, however, I see the opposite development: In fact, the number increases. In 2009, 2,200 permits were granted to IT architects, and in 2016 there were 3,700. It's an increase. For civil engineers, the figures are 539 in 2009 and 791 in 2016. In the very group that is so much talked about that companies need to increase, we are therefore seeing an increase. Among other things, people from India, whom I visited last year, are being recruited. At that time I was discussing this particular issue. We would like to help shorten the length of proceedings, but it sounds false when the Moderates demand that the processing times be shortened and at the same time want to cut the Migration Board by 500 million, Mr President. How's that gonna work out?
i-43674532d01138bf-298	Mr President, I would like to I think this interpellation is far too important for us to make this a fight about whose fault it is. We have a situation that doesn't work. It is legislation that the Alliance Government put into effect. Things have changed, and there is a need for flexible and flexible management of this because the situation has changed. In his reply and his comments, the Minister has been keen to point out that the errors made by employers should be corrected and that it is certainly not possible to skip the loopholes in this regard. In fact, however, there are many companies that refrain from recruiting workers from other countries precisely because of the risk. If you make a small mistake, it can have huge consequences for the company, for the entrepreneur and for the individual employee. This is a signal language that is very important to handle, and it is a signal language that the government has the opportunity to change. We Moderates want to shorten the processing times for work permits, and they should be shortened to 30 days. And yes, we're making adjustments to the Migration Board's budget. What we are very clear about, however, is that part of the administrative allocation to the Migration Agency should be earmarked for processing applications for work permits in order to avoid these cases being squeezed away by other issues. The situation is unreasonable when people who live in Sweden, work and do the right thing are suddenly sent home because of bureaucratic technicalities. Labour immigration makes Sweden richer; I think we can agree on that. Transparency, not this form of protectionism, is what builds the knowledge society of the future. There, Sweden will be an important global player.
i-43674532d01138bf-302	Mr President, I would like to It was welcome that Mr Rothenberg finally said that this is the law of the Alliance, because that is the case. I understand very well that some companies may hesitate to do this type of recruitment when they see that there is no possibility of healing a possible error. That is exactly why we want to correct that part of the legislation. As stated, the referral period for the investigation will end on Monday, followed by the usual processing process. Then we will return to Parliament as soon as possible. I know that it is the case that we are solving this. That's why we once set up the investigation – to try and solve this. There are also many other proposals in the investigation that we will proceed with. Mr Rothenberg says that we want to set the processing time to 30 days and earmark the money. In the next breath, he talks about cutting down by half a billion. We've been expanding the Migration Agency in the last few years. It now has over 7 000 employees precisely to cope with the increased workload in the form of asylum applications, of course, as well as this part. Now I am here discussing labour migration, and next week I may be discussing with another moderate who says that we need to shorten the processing times for asylum applications. That is exactly what gets so tricky – that in your draft budgets you have cuts and then in the next breath you say that you should earmark money. Then the message doesn't really add up. You can't do both things at the same time. Basically, we have commissioned the Migration Agency to shorten the processing times. I mentioned that the processing time is now 48 days when it comes to the group that has in-depth university competence, and we make sure to continue working. We will present a bill to Parliament as soon as possible.
