i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-0	Honored Parliament and above all sisters and siblings! Those of you who have shared your testimony about sexism, about the everyday fear and about the sexual abuse—this debate is for you. We have this debate because we now need to talk about the consequences of all our stories. Over the past two months, we women and non-Binners around the world have stepped forward under the hashtag #metoo and testified about the sexism and the sexual harassment and abuse s if we have been subjected to by men. In Sweden many tens of thousands have gathered in various appeals, given testimony and made demands for change. The calls cut across society and testify to various forms of sexual harassment that exist in everything from the school world and working life to the sports world, cultural life and politics. The massive extent of these testimonies and the fact that so many women have jointly and simultaneously chosen to tell has made visible the structural sexism that exists and that many have known, but that few have wanted to talk about or do something about. The culture of silence that has so long prevailed around sexism and the sexual harassment and abuse that men commit has thereby been broken, and it is no longer possible to dismiss various events as misappropriations. Basically, it is about power and a behavior of power that then takes different forms. Metoo and the subsequent roll-calls have clearly indicated that the line long ago has been reached. As politicians and representatives in Parliament, it is our responsibility and our duty to react and take political action.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, the Left Party, for inviting us to this important debate! Above all, I would also like to thank all the girls and women who have shared experiences of harassment and abuse. If it had not been for you, we would have had neither this debate nor the necessary social debate that is still going on. Once again, women in Sweden have taken a step towards a society that is better for everyone. Today in the afternoon, I will meet representatives of many metoo networks. I and the Minister of Justice have met with heads of the judiciary, me and the Minister for Labour met on Friday with the social partners and I and the Minister for Economic Affairs will meet with the business community to talk about the metoo. The whole government is involved in this important work. In my international contacts and in interviews I have done recently, I have been asked why metoo has got this power in Sweden. Sweden recently became number one on the EU's gender equality list. Why is it that the problems are still so great? I think it is precisely because we have achieved a comparatively high degree of equality that this debate has become so extensive in Sweden. We women in Sweden expect to be heard and listened to. We expect reasonable reception, justice and rights. I also think that the response has been serious in the debate. This is why the testimony has become important and will have long-term consequences. The more we see of metoo, the more I think it's about more than violence and harassment. It is about exposing men's everyday power – that men have more of it precisely because they are men. But when did we agree that this would be the case in our society? We never have. Yet it is. What does a feminist government do? Among other things, here in Parliament we have discussed the government's new gender equality policy and adopted it as well as a gender equality authority that will carry out and follow up the gender equality work so that we can see that we get results. I interpret women's voices in the Metoo as a strong support for the fact that we achieve results and that reality is changing in an equal direction. They really want to see this. That is why this authority will help us both to implement the policy and to make sure that we know that we are doing the right things. The government has taken further initiatives during its term of office, because we know that equality does not come naturally. There is a need for debate, political decisions and proposals; history shows that. We have decided on a national strategy of 1 billion to prevent men's violence against women. It focuses on prevention, not least when it comes to targeting boys and men. The aim is, of course, to bring down and eliminate violence against women, including honour-related violence and oppression, prostitution and human trafficking. In the light of the metoo, it is clear that we need to talk about working life and workplaces. The government and the parties met on Friday to discuss this. The regulatory framework is good, according to the analysis by the parties, but it is not implemented. If it had, we would have moved on to the everyday power of men with such severe consequences for women. We need leadership, and perhaps we also simply need training to do this. The government and the parties are also discussing how we, from the government, can support this work. What else have we done? We are creating a national programme to prevent violence against women, we are improving sex and cohabitation education, we are introducing a new sex crime law based on volunteering and we have introduced information measures to newly arrived people about gender equality and sexuality in Sweden. The police are given more money and new priorities when it comes to violence against women that they must follow. They must improve their investigations and their work on reporting violence against women. We introduce knowledge about men's violence against women in degree descriptions for some important academic professions in this context. We are introducing a special effort against honour-related violence. We have also criminalized online harassment, which was previously not a crime. Mr President, I would like to Last weekend, men who support women gathered in Metoo. It's necessary. Men's solidarity is extremely important for us to move forward. To conclude, I would like to say once again to you women and girls who have told us in Metoo: your courage gives us hope at a time when people are looking for hope. It is a great confidence that you have given us, and it is a confidence that I promise to take seriously. It is possible to transfer the informal power that men have at the expense of women. It's possible to change society.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-14	Mr President, I would like to It started with a hashtag under the name # metoo where women were told to tell about sexual abuse – a call that spread from country to country and from industry to industry. In Sweden this has had a very large impact. There may be many explanations for that, but one explanation is that Sweden is an equal country and that there was a maturity to tell the stories that needed to be told and that should have been told long ago. For sure, Sweden is an equal country on paper, but the last few weeks tell and testify that there is still a lot to do. Mr President, I would like to However, it is gratifying that about 70 per cent of Swedes believe that these campaigns will lead to change in society. It's necessary. We have heard frightening stories from culture, school, politics and journalism – completely different industries but with the same testimony and the same stories. We have heard thousands of horrendous testimony about how girls and women in particular have been subjected to everything from abuse of power to unwanted advances and sexual abuse. A woman relates: He held me tight and had sex with me against my will. He's important, high-ranking, and he's a good friend of several of my friends, so I never dared to tell anyone. Another woman relates: I was abused when I was young. When, as an adult, I told my relatives about it, no one believed me. It was the biggest assault. These are just some of the stories we have been able to read about. Honor to all of you who have been able to tell. The existence of this has not been unknown. But when people make their voices heard at the same time, it gets a completely different power and an entirely different impact. Metoo is a battering ram in the culture of silence. We all have a responsibility that these statements should not have been in vain. I am therefore pleased that we are having this debate in this House today. Here we can show that we take responsibility from politics on this important issue. I would like to thank the Left Party for the initiative for this debate. We politicians can show the way by being clear in the legislation. It is a powerful tool for influencing attitudes and how people view gender equality. Women's exposure to sex offences has increased sharply in recent years. It's alarming. At the same time, we can read about how serious sexual abuse is not investigated because the police do not have time. How is it possible that this type of crime is not investigated in the world's most equal country? And how is it possible that we do not have the resources to investigate such serious crimes in a country with one of the world's highest tax burdens? Over the past few weeks, I have read strong stories about what women have been subjected to. Some have been so terrible that I haven't been able to read the whole thing at once. They have been about women whose earliest memories of abuse are from when they were three years old. They're about how they've been raped by fathers, brothers, stepdads and cousins. In what we call a family, where love and trust should be unconditional and where children should be children, many women have been deprived of their own body and suffered wounds that never heal. It's a cruelty that can't be understood. I've been reading and I've been crying. I have cursed the men who have abused, threatened, raped and robbed women of their bodies, security and sexuality. To all of you brave women who have dared to tell us about what you have been subjected to, I just want to say one thing: it was not your fault. As a spokesperson for gender equality policy, I am particularly pleased that we Moderates have put forward a broad programme of measures with proposals for stronger legislation and improvements in the justice system's handling of sexual crimes. Among other things, we propose tightening up the penalties for rape. The penalties for rape are too low today, and often the courts judge at the lower end of the penalty scale. The scale of penalties has remained in principle unchanged since the Criminal Code was introduced 50 years ago. By tightening the penalties, we send a clear signal of how seriously we view these crimes. I hope that during the debate today, more parties will join the Moderates in calling for stricter penalties for rape. That's not enough good words. Now politics and legislation must stand up and show how seriously society views crimes against women. We support the introduction of a consent law. There is also reason to look harder at certain forms of sexual harassment that do not reach up to what constitutes rape. Therefore, a new classification with a higher penalty scale for sexual harassment should be introduced. Indemnities for victims of rape and other sexual offences must also be increased. Furthermore, the resources for the police must be increased. We want specific groups specialised in sex offences to be set up in each police region. This is part of our action programme. Sexual abuse is one of the most offensive things a person can be exposed to. Behind the crime statistics and the figures, it is an atrocious abuse that deprives victims of their freedom, integrity and security. Trauma is something you have to carry with you your whole life. It is important for society to act decisively. These are some examples of what we can do on the part of the legislator, but at the same time politics cannot solve everything. We all have a duty to speak out and contribute to improving attitudes, standards and values such as colleagues, fellows, friends and parents.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-29	Mr President, I would like to It is an extremely serious subject that we are discussing today. For the past few months, I think I've left few unconcerned, if any. I have often thought about – and in the run-up to this debate I thought about saying something about it – that what a young woman is difficult to be surprised. But I don't think it's just about young women. It has been shown that women in our country generally have some kind of experience of having their privacy limits violated. There are also many men and people at all who feel that sometimes, or often, one gets one's integrity and one's sexuality violated and one's body deprived of himself. This takes place in different forms and at different levels. The worst is perhaps when you feel that the opposite and the environment do not even notice what is happening. You don't get heard, you don't get understood and you don't get believed. We have also seen many examples of this in recent months. The reactions to the metoo campaign have been extremely mixed. Right after the first testimony came out, I wrote myself a status and noticed that I am split into what is happening. This cleavage has continued and is strong even today. It is clear that the substance needs to be lifted. Not least, the reactions in the form of obnoxious comments to certain testimonies have demonstrated the need to seriously discuss what is happening to us in our country. But there are also thoughts about what we do next. How far do we let this go? How do we act? How do we ensure that we keep our focus on real, actual change and not further polarisation and sharing of our society where people are not taken seriously when they come up with their personal stories about what has happened? This is still going on. Mr President, I would like to Over the past few months, I don't know how many times I've been shocked by what I've read and heard, how pissed I've been that there are obviously people who let events continue and that there are so many who haven't dared to raise their voices before, but only now that they've got company and how grateful I've felt that I'm not one of them. This gratitude is really something sick to feel. It's not supposed to be like that in a society. I won't have to go around and be grateful that I've never experienced myself in a situation where I can't handle what's happening. It is clear that even I have got my borders somewhat violated sometimes but never to that level that I have not been able to say and get it respected or get help from the surroundings if it has been extra hard. So what can we do at this point? I absolutely believe that it is important that we review sex crime legislation, the penalty values and how we can ensure that the obvious crimes are always punished. There is no doubt that if people are drugged, power is exploited and violence is involved, there should be no room to listen to people who blame that they did not know. Of course, you know if you drug a fellow human or use violence to get him or her to do something the person doesn't want to do. It is good that there are many suggestions. I hope that we will take this seriously and go further. I am pleased that the Moderates are also behind the proposal for increased penalties, among other things. It is important to bear in mind that – although worrying statistics have come up recently – the propensity to report is actually falling when it comes to sex offences. In recent years, it has often been blamed that the propensity to register is high and that there have therefore been more reports. However, recent studies show that this is not the case. You don't get believed. You don't get your case investigated. You don't get a penalty. There will be no compensation if the person in question manages to be convicted. Usually it is felt as being exposed an extra time. We have to work double. In many of the stories that have come to light, it is perhaps also a matter of situations where you are not quite sure what has happened. Many circumstances can lead to violations of privacy. But the question is whether it should be criminal, if there has been no intention if it is not serious crime. I rather believe that we also need to pick up what I usually call sexual social skills. We need to get better at talking to each other, getting to know each other and listening to each other. We must have a clear dialogue early in our society. It's supposed to be alive all the time. Then we can be sure that it is obvious that if I do something with another person it is not only because I want to but because I know that that person also wants it with me. I look forward to a good debate. And I thank the Left Party for raising the issue.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-43	Mr President, I would like to The Metoo movement has shaken Sweden. In the industry by industry, women have gone out with their stories together. These are stories that have finally come to the surface and come to light, stories of a consequence of a culture in which the bodies of women of some are still seen as public property, which something men are free to take off. Women have witnessed everything from gross sexual violence to sexual harassment and abuse, but also the silence that many have encountered when trying to tell about what they have experienced. Sexual abuse is nothing new, but the movement clearly shows the extent of the problem. I too would like to thank all those who have shared their stories. Silence, with which right, silence class, deadline and silence – behind these concepts and a lot more stories from different industries are gathered. Stories from this hall have gathered under the slogan of power corridors. It has now become abundantly clear that sexual abuse and abuse occur in all parts of society. No exceptions appear to exist. The strength of the metoo is precisely this, that we see it happening everywhere. No one can close their eyes anymore. But we can all feel that that's enough. During this autumn's roll call, I have read many stories about vulnerability, and I react extremely strongly to everyone. Sometimes I react with a great deal of sadness but usually with great anger about what we women have been subjected to. All stories are important, but one of the movement's most touching calls goes under the slogan without safety nets. Women who live or have lived in addiction, crime and vulnerability have joined forces to tell their stories. These are stories that for many can feel far away, but which unfortunately are reality for many. 中 Dear fellow humans! Can we call you that? Do we count? Or where is the limit to your humanity? Are we standing outside it? In this way, the text will be published by the initiators of the petition in Dagens Nyheter. The political response needs to be crystal clear. At all times, we will stand up for society's most vulnerable, in words but also through action. The appeal gathers testimony about hatred, threats, abuse and violence against women who have in many cases felt condemned by society already as children. It is testimony to a double vulnerability, about feeling betrayed by both perpetrators and society. We in this House must never turn our eyes away or turn a deaf ear when descriptions of people's reality are almost too painful to listen to. We must all do what is in our power to bring about a change that extends from the corridors of power to the street and into the nursing homes. When people lose faith in society, it is our responsibility to rebuild it. The fact that our struggle includes all women must be clear. A functioning social safety net and a reliable judiciary are at the heart of our welfare society. The stories about sex crimes that are never investigated, investigations that are closed without an initial hearing and women's shelters that are forced to close the doors because of too many applicants we and the government take very seriously. In recent years, we have prioritised expanding and strengthening the police's resources so that more time and effort can be put into the investigative work. Those who report sexual abuse should be met by a judicial system that takes the matter seriously and has the resources to investigate and prosecute. Mr President, I would like to We are now putting forward a proposal for a consent law which is expected to enter into force by the summer. I'm proud of that. For the Green Party, the road here has been long. Ten years ago, in the Swedish Parliament, we wrote a first motion about getting consent legislation in place. Now we're almost there. Finally. The law includes negligence, and at the same time we come forward with proposals for increased penalties. But above all, we are doing this so that the law is crystal clear: anything that is not a yes is a no. The fact that we choose to go forward with the consent legislation is a consequence of the shortcomings of the current legislation. It is an important step along the way. But that's not enough. We must not think that we can get to the bottom of the problems of sexual abuse and harassment only through changes in legislation. After all, it is already forbidden. We need to work on all fronts to move forward. The school has an invaluable role in the work of equal value. Standards of gender and power structures should be questioned and discussed as early as preschool. That is where work must begin by breaking the destructive and patriarchal notions of women and men and creating new standards. In dealing with these issues, a particular responsibility rests with men. By examining themselves and by taking responsibility for their actions and those of other men, new standards can be set. The fact that, last week, several male politicians went out to the media and talked about this very thing is welcome. That is how we create change, step by step. Breaking the silence is incredibly important. Through the Metoo campaign, new land has been broken. Those who have previously thought that feminism has gone too far have probably got a point of view now. It is up to us to take it further and to continue to be a voice for those who are not heard. It's just enough now.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-59	Mr President, I would like to Grief and anger are some of the emotions that have been aroused by the testimony about women's vulnerability and metoo. Thank you to everyone who has been able to testify to what you have been through! When I was in junior high, a bunch of guys chased me and some other girls on break. I was the first in the class to get boobs and the guys held me to touch them. I started kicking the guys between the legs. I got yelled at by the teachers and the teachers called home to our parents and told them what we did. ..................................................... One morning at work in the industry, I was assaulted, beaten and subjected to a gross attempted rape. The two perpetrators explained that girls didn't belong there. My employer's occupational health care thought I should dress less challenging. I was wearing protective clothing, safety shoes and helmets. ..................................................... These are two of the many metoo stories. Most of them I would not be able to read out in this House, Mr President. These two came from DN. This autumn, however, something has happened. We have stopped being silent and ashamed of what we have been subjected to. A tidal wave has blown up the floodgates. A tidal wave of stories pours forth — more and more, all the time. One is more disgusting than the other. The run-up in Sweden was when 456 actresses went out with their stories during the hashtag # silence. Soon there were calls from singers, lawyers, politicians, musicians, students, athletes, dancers, psychologists, academics, addicts, prostitutes, honorists, patients, doctors and women in the technology industry, church, construction, school world, industries such as public relations and communication, equestrian sports, the Swedish Armed Forces, the restaurant industry and the film industry. Women step forward and talk about abuses and violations they have been subjected to, women from all parts of society. It is women of all ages and the stories are both old and new. Silence has been broken and the stories have become known. A lot of women finally dare to tell me. When we joined forces and gained power from each other, it became possible. The oppressive structures have been made visible. The voices in the summer that only men of other ethnic and cultural backgrounds take or violate themselves have been silenced. The calls have shown that there is no part of society that is at peace d. The threat that if you tell me, no one will believe you was made public. Further: If you tell me, you will never get a job again, or if you tell me, I will kill you. Those threats became known, too. The assaults were brought forth in the light, and something happened. The trolls burst because the stories were finally taken seriously. The culture of silence is broken, and the changes must continue. Our society should be better than this. Everyone has a responsibility and must act to stop violations, abuse, attitudes, oppressive structures and power games. Politics has a particular responsibility. Legislation, prevention and resources are needed to respond to what is now no longer hidden. We have a responsibility to be at the forefront of this autumn's tidal wave not ebbing out but leading to real change. The grief and anger must be turned into determination. For a lasting change, effective policy proposals must be put forward. It has to be one before and one after metoo. The women who have now told us must be supported. Other women who have been exposed and have not yet been told must be strengthened in order to dare to tell and learn about what help there is. The National Centre for Women's Peace is a hugely important knowledge bank, as is the Kvinnofrid line for which the Centre is responsible. Women who have been abused can get help there. The Kvinnofridslinjen received about 90 calls a day before Metoo. For many years NCK has worked with research, support, education and information on violence against women. One in five women has ever been subjected to sexual violence. Unfortunately, NCK has spent the last few years defending its existence. The government wants to dismantle the operation and transfer the mission to the new gender equality agency. With such a move, the skills, collaboration and valuable work built up and done there are destroyed. You'll have to start all over again. Instead, the Center Party wants to develop and strengthen NCK with a doubling of the funding, from today's approximately 25 million to 50 million. NCK and women's and girls' shelters are important in many ways. They are in the first line at an emergency, but they are also a safe hand to hold in when the whole life has been thrown over. And now, when many who have long been silent but now dare to tell, we have to make sure that there are resources. We therefore want to make a doubling of resources for women's and girls' shelters, a reinforcement of resources that would be sufficient for another service on each call call call. What is needed now is broad action, ranging from supporting those who have dared to tell us to support those who will now dare to report. Preventive work with qualified sex and cohabitation education is also required for all pupils. The professions that meet vulnerable people in school, health care, care and the judiciary must include basic knowledge in education and training. Leadership in workplaces in all sectors should not accept violations. It takes many discussions about values and respect for each other. Inequality and oppression are like stubborn weeds. As soon as we stop clearing, it grows again. It is everyone's responsibility never to stop twitching, and don't forget that the roots are coming!
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-77	The testimony we hear and read every day must not stop at the horror. It is not a matter of individual misappropriations or bad eggs. Metoo has made visible the consequences of structural sexism and patriarchy. If we are serious about the fact that Metoo must mean change, we must now talk about and change the unequal power relations in society. It is when we are in a position of dependence that the vulnerability becomes greater. Therefore, we cannot be satisfied only with attitude-changing measures. There is a need for proposals that really break women's subordination. Power must be shifted, which is closely linked to economic equality between women and men. Women still bear the main responsibility for homes and children. Despite several progress in the area of gender equality, this is still the case in 2017. It affects our entire lives. And if we do nothing actively, it will take decades before we have an equal take-out of parental days, decades before we will have equal pay and a century and a half before we have equal pensions. Women have more precarious employment, poorer conditions, lower wages and more part-time work. Women are more sick than men, and the difference increases further after women have had their first child. Since our pension is then based on our entire income and women live longer, we also have lower pensions than men. Women make up the larger proportion of poverty pensioners. Old women remain in relationships, not always out of love, but because it is impossible to survive economically on their own. The construction of parental insurance is a key to achieving an equal working life and reducing the income gap between women and men. In order to break men's over-order, you have to be prepared to act and see that parental insurance needs to be individualised. From the industry by industry, women have now witnessed how precarious jobs create an addiction that men can exploit and that makes it harder to speak up. For young women in working-age occupations, sexual harassment at work is 50 per cent more common if you have a fixed-term employment contract compared to an open-ended employment contract. One of the easiest measures against this is to remove the general fixed-term form of employment. Permanent and full-time employment must be the norm in the labour market. Fixed-term contracts shall only be used where there are objective reasons for such use. But also in the other arenas of society we see inequality and sexism. Whether it be the sports world, cultural life, school, politics, street or home, everyone bears witness to a lack of trust in the judiciary, but also how health care, social services and psychiatry must be improved in their treatment when women or transgender people have been subjected to abuse and violence by men. Metoo shows that sexism also exists in the judicial system, which is particularly serious given that this is where we are going to turn to seek justice. There is a need for a good base on sexualised violence and sexual crime in law school, and it must be better included in police training. That way we can get better quality preliminary investigations and ensure that the investigative methods that exist are actually used and improve the treatment of the victims. We also need a modern sex crime law that assumes that sex is voluntary. A requirement for consent would work normatively and establish society's view of sex and sex crimes. Through negligence, it is possible to capture more serious acts, which would probably lead to more convictions in sexual crime cases – without lowering the evidence requirements. We have waited a long time, so I look forward to the Government presenting these proposals on the table of Parliament as a matter of urgency. Even from the moment we are very small, we are formed depending on the sex we have. Little girls learn early that when boys hunt or beat them, it's the boys' way of showing that they like the girls. Although it is stated in preschool and school policy papers that they should work to break gender roles, in reality it is exactly the opposite – that's where they are preserved. It lays the foundation for young people's education, and it is therefore important that all staff in preschool and school systems have gender knowledge. The school's sex and cohabitation education needs to be integrated into several subjects, and the follow-up training must also include sex and cohabitation skills. It is not reasonable that so many children and young people get their almost only picture of sex from porn. The school must contribute with other approaches and lay the foundations for a culture of consent.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-89	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start with a quote: a further female Director-General to base on another 75 cloned batik witches. I read this in a commentary field to the news that Sweden will soon have a new equality authority. That is how the mockery and ridicule of equality and gender equality work can sound. But the reduction and invisibility are found in so many milder variants. It can be heavenly eyes and weary sighs, questionings and overleavings. Anyone who doesn't want to say a batikswitch, can say a man-hateer or a humor free whining bitch. If you have dared to bring about individual abuse or abuse, you can get the advice to put it behind you. If you want to discuss sexual harassment, feel that you are annoying or even ridiculous. Mr President, I would like to When we discuss the metoo and its consequences in this House, I would like to highlight what has made possible the impossible, intolerable stories: the mockery and the reduction and perhaps, above all, the silence. That silence is now broken. Therefore, we all owe you a great thank you, all of you who share your stories, who go back to our long-standing memories and dare to tell. Evelyn Schreiber described in Dagens Nyheter last Saturday the double rumble from Facebook groups where the conversations between women have not stopped but on the contrary are going on for the full. She writes:a brave celebrities lit the fire, but it is the anonymous women who keep the flame alive. Those who join together at the workplace and start new calls... The women who continue to tell – and the sisters who tirelessly listen. They're all heroes in this revolution. ..................................................... That's it. You who have told and you who listen are heroes, and it is a revolution you have started. In the pattern that your stories create, you show that the gender power structures persist: that despite universal and equal suffrage, discrimination legislation, contraception, the right to abortion, special taxation, parental insurance, preschool for all and every other ladies' have not reached the goal but that after more than a hundred years of liberal and feminist struggle we still live in a society where the position of women is subordinate to that of men. No one – I say no – can deny it anymore. I'm going to say that in my brightest moments during these dark metoo weeks, I've been thinking that perhaps we've now reached the real core of gender inequality – the culture of silence around what is closest to women's vulnerability. Whether it is subtle or brutal, verbally or physically, disguising or disguising, in fine salons or on the bus – the oppression of the freedom of our bodies, of the freedom of our sexuality is once again made visible to all. Do not let these stories be forgotten! Let them continue to pour in, and let us make sure that we document what is now happening! My liberal party friend in this House, Christina Örnebjär, has suggested that it might be a task for the new equality authority. Somehow we have to make sure that this is never forgotten. Mr President, I would like to For us liberals, the sanctity of every human being is sacred. We are part of the revolution metoo stories now set in motion. The revolution is about a change in society as a whole. It is about managers and leaders who should see their responsibility and set the tone, prevent and react with knowledge and power. Let me be clear: it is not just the others who should get their act together, but we all are. Even those of us who have long worked for gender equality and who are feminists can do better. I think most of us know that sometimes we have not done enough. There has to be an end to it now. Of course, this revolution is about politics and what we in this House, like our colleagues in county councils, regions and municipalities, can do. Thank you, the Left Party, for having opened up the opportunity for this discussion! I would like briefly to highlight five things that are high on the agenda now. The first is about the new sex crime legislation that most people have talked about and on which we seem to be very much in agreement in this House. We must also ensure that it does not remain in the law book but is prepared to allocate the resources needed to spread the word. It is also about oppression of honour, about civil society, about school and about knowledge. I would like to return to this. Metoo helps everyone to understand that the patriarchy exists and that the structures need to be changed. Metoo makes the mockery, ridicule, reduction, and invisibility lose their power. Metoo creates the revolution that we liberals have been waiting for.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-105	Mr President, I would like to Metoo has had a powerful impact, and it is extremely good. There is talk of over 600 Metoo calls against sexual harassment and abuse. They are politicians, lawyers, teachers, military, police, actors, journalists and many more. The majority are women, although of course there are also men affected. The great flow of stories indicates that something is not right. A feminist government is not enough, although it is good to push and have raised gender equality issues. A gender equality authority is not enough for everything to work out. We need to strengthen legislation, but I think that this shows that a more fundamental change of attitude and value is needed in society. Men in particular must stop exercising the right to exercise power over women's bodies, and employers and leaders must take women's testimony seriously. The basis for equality between women and men is the equal and absolute inviolable value of all human beings. Women and men must have a level playing field in society. That is why we must eliminate traditional notions, prejudices, structures and legal obstacles that make equality between men and women more difficult. This is true in family life, in working life and in other social life. Men's violence against women is the ultimate expression of a lack of equality. It is totally unacceptable that women should have to live with the risk of being subjected to harassment and violence that causes mental illness or that they are prevented in their professional career because they do not stand up for sexual invites. Mr President, I would like to Through all the thousands of stories that have come from vulnerable women, Metoo has focused precisely on sexual violence. It has become clear what consequences it will have for individuals but also for society at large if we do not react to sexual harassment and violence. Some women say that they felt uncomfortable, while others feel that their lives were more or less ruined. What can we do? First of all, of course, we must encourage girls, boys, women and men to speak out. But not everyone can do it on their own. It is therefore necessary for employers and managers at different levels to show that the reports are taken seriously. The Discrimination Act is clear and says that the employer will immediately investigate violations and sexual harassment in the workplace when they are known. At school there is a value base to work from outside. To violate someone's dignity by, for example, grabbing, touching breasts, pushing someone up against a wall, sending unwanted images via text messages, shouting gender words for a girl in the school corridor, or even raping someone at work, as some say, is, of course, totally unacceptable. From all the stories I have read these weeks, I conclude that many women themselves have first minimized what they have experienced. But after maybe 30 years, this is still gnawing. Everything suggests that women have blamed themselves and have not dared to question how they have been treated. Who decides if you have been exposed? If you have been subjected to insulting or unwanted behaviour, it is according to the law that you decide where the limit is. This is extremely important. Of course, if you're being mistreated, you're supposed to say no. But the law does not require that you have always renounced when it is obvious that you have been subjected to abusive treatment. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I do not believe that all employers and leaders take the reports seriously. That is why I think we need to sharpen the tone. The Ombudsman for Discrimination has said that there may be a need for more sanctions against employers who do not take complaints seriously. I believe that we need to work broadly by changing attitudes and values in society. It may be that we talk about it at the dining table in the home, in the coffee room at work or at the association meeting. Tell us what can happen, how to stop sexual violence and what action should be taken if it does happen! We Christian Democrats hope that metoo is the start of a movement that instills hope in all those who have not previously dared to tell us, that managers and leaders are now taking complaints seriously, that perpetrators know that they will be held responsible and that each of us is showing civil courage in our everyday environment and saying stop when we see someone being exposed. This is about ethics and morals and what values we want our society to be borne by.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-118	Mr President, I would like to I really agree with what we have heard here – metoo is about everything from patronizing comments to harassment and gross abuse. Thank you, Maria Arnholm, for also highlighting the ridicule and contempt that many women and certain men who run gender equality issues face! Sometimes that's actually what's holding you back, about what you said. In this House too, there have been laughs at proposals for an equality authority. I am very pleased that there is now clearly an understanding of the need for a gathering body to implement gender equality policy – not for us politicians and bureaucrats to be happy, but for the life to change for women who want it in Metoo. We are responsible for our resources and our decisions, and we need to be aware that they lead to greater equality and the shift of this power from men to women for justice. Therefore, it is also the case that we are preparing a mission for the new gender equality agency to collect statements from the Metoo, in particular to go through them and look for concrete proposals. What else do we need to do? Have we heard everything that has been said? Have we understood what women and girls are asking for? What demands must we make of ourselves in the future in order to do justice to the Metoo and to achieve an equal society? We're talking about culture of silence. But it is true that women and girls have often pointed out that harassment and abuse have occurred. Yet they have been left alone. According to the regulations, managers have a clear responsibility if it is about workplaces. And yet this is how it's going to be. Brå showed that sexual crimes are increasing when it comes to young women. This means that the perpetrators are probably also young. Several of you have talked about prevention. We need to improve them. That is why we will be putting forward proposals for a national programme for knowledge about gender equality, sexuality and respect. The programme will reach girls, boys, women and men in Sweden. We need to take various measures, and we need to follow them up to ensure that equality is created. If women had been able to stop the violence, they would have done it, as someone said. They have done everything else when it comes to equality. We cannot ask women to do this. We must also involve men, and we must be better at methods of preventing violence. We are now very soon putting forward a proposal for a new sex crime law. There is, of course, a consensus in Parliament on this. We are also putting forward, within the framework of this proposal, more stringent penalties for certain sexual offences. It also comes with a package of awareness raising on sexual crimes and this new legislation, which is based on voluntary activity. I think that's so important. It is also true that the police must give priority to these crimes. They are now receiving more funds, and we must see that crimes committed against women are as important as crimes committed against men. Police and prosecutors are tasked with reporting back on how they improve investigations into this. What we are talking about is both taking clear measures that lead to gender equality and constantly thinking about reforms that deal with the strengthening of gender equality policies in the 2020s.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-126	Mr President, I would like to The Metoo movement shows a major social problem that exists in all groups and contexts. This is not a women's issue for women of women, but it is the joint responsibility of all of us. We need to understand that the problems are starting somewhere. At the same time, as we see it, there is an opportunity and a platform where early in people's lives we can talk about values and equality. Family and school have a great responsibility. Our most important arena for reaching out to young people is the school. Here we can talk about people's freedoms to treat each other with respect and that a no is always a no. Unfortunately, it does not always look like this today. The Metoo campaign and statistics from, among other things, the Discrimination Ombudsman show that students in the Swedish school have experienced harassment. Here we have grown-ups a responsibility. Attack is the best defense, usually it's called. Our attack on the harassment and abuse that women have experienced must be to ensure that the next generation does not have to experience the same things. It hurts when you read in social media about how young women have been exposed to threats, harassment and abuse. This means that we have not gone further in this generation, but that there is hope for the next. The school is the beginning so the metoo won't have to be repeated. We must talk early about the obvious starting point that each individual decides for himself his own body and sexuality. In a world where our young people interact and navigate daily in social media and chat forums, it is important to convey that violations, harassment and images of, for example, gender organs are never acceptable unless it is based on mutual respect and interaction. For those who cannot play by the rules of the game, it must also have tangible consequences. The school has an important mission when it comes to conveying the equal value of all people and how we treat each other in society. It is based on the fact that we can shift norms, values and attitudes and that together we can make this an issue in which everyone is included, both men and women, Mr President.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-130	Mr President, I would like to We are clearly all agreed that it is an important issue, that there is much to do and many ways to tackle it. There are some things I have heard so far that worry me somewhat. It is said as a matter of course that it always has to do with men and the patriarchy, which oppresses women generally. As far as we know and as most of us recognize, it is undoubtedly the case that most women, just as I myself highlighted earlier, can recognize themselves in the fact that sexism, comments and jokes, but also unwelcome touching, happens on one's body and far more grossly than that, occur to a much greater extent directed at us. But there is a danger in increasing polarization. As I mentioned earlier, it was my initial reaction. We have seen a division in talking about it as a question of men versus women. It can rather have the opposite effect so that women's voices, men's voices, are not taken seriously. Men can blame the patriarchy and the standards of society for trying to break the responsibility they should bear when taking liberties with the bodies of others. It is important that we keep our focus on what it is all about and the obvious that all relationships between individuals must be based on voluntaryness and mutual listening to and recognition of what the person I am now interacting with, in whatever way it is, experiences and how to interpret it. I can take two simple examples where you can see that we judge it differently and that it cannot always be easy for everyone to understand. The first example is the very first debate I had in this House. It was a gender equality debate within the framework of the Nordic Council. I dared to mention that even men can be subjected to violence in their relationships. I believe that the Nordic Council had not had such a long debate for several years after that. Among other things, I heard comments that basically laughed away the violence I highlighted. I was accused of relativising when I only mentioned the fact that it can strike in both directions. There is also a great number of darkness. One is ridiculed as if one dares to lift up the fact that the woman in a relationship strikes back. That is an example. Another example is a committee trip I was on, where we had a dinner with entrepreneurs. There was talk of the young prime minister in Canada, joking about how they wanted him to take off his shirt at the meeting, because he was so incredibly handsome, instead of telling what he was going to do with politics. It is a responsibility that we discuss sexism and that we are constantly aware. When we talk about the new gender equality agency, I am concerned that it will start from the stories and find things there. We will of course produce statistics, look at experiences and analyse what society looks like. That's good. But it needs to be done seriously, with a broader approach and proper statistical collections based on the whole society. I hope that the Metoo movement has finally highlighted the issue so that we dare to answer the questions honestly so that proper statistics can be collected. But I think we should be careful not to take individual testimony as truths at all times. We should approach the issue with seriosity and see the movement for what it is: an opportunity to highlight the issue and realize that the problem is greater and is in more places than many of us have previously realized.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-139	Mr President, I would like to The debate has so far focused mainly on the stories that have emerged. It's perfectly natural. That is why we are standing here and with great gratitude can have the debate today where we raise these extremely important issues. But sometimes silence is also telling. There are stories that have not come to light. A couple of weeks ago, a debate article was written about women who do not dare to tell. It describes a vulnerability but also a fear of just making things worse by telling. In the wake of this came the petition under the surface – a petition about the women who have been subjected to and live under honour-related violence and oppression. That call did not reach so many media, perhaps for the simple reason that so few dared to come forward and tell. But it is also a story that is important to take seriously, even though it lacks the personal experiences that have otherwise characterized the Metoo movement. That fear in itself is telling. One thought that is central to metoo has been to put the shame where it belongs, namely with the men. Despite the fact that the norm and the law already lay the blame there, many people still feel that they are in debt. In an honorary context, it's twice as bad. It places the blame for abuse on the woman who is exposed, not only as a feeling in herself but also in the eyes of her immediate surroundings. Although these women do not dare to speak openly, their experiences and vulnerability must also be taken seriously. The government takes it seriously, for example through the multiannual effort to prevent and combat honour-related violence and repression. We must be clear in our fight, as I said earlier, that it applies to all women. Mr President, I would like to Society's standards sometimes take a very long time to change. Although there are many of us who for a long time have tried to draw attention to the sexual abuse and harassment that women are subjected to, it is only now that all stories come to the surface. Those who have believed that women's vulnerability has only been isolated cases and personal stories have now seen the extent of it all. I think we thought we'd gotten further. But now things can go fast, like when things get noticed this way and laws change. Metoo is the first step, and consent legislation becomes the natural continuation. The issue of introducing a consent law is not new. The Green Party has worked with it for several mandates through motions and by initiating an investigation into the issue. The legislation is now becoming a reality. It will not only increase the number of cases being prosecuted but also give strong signals as to which standards should apply in our society and that only sexual acts with mutual consent are okay. The laws we pass in this House have a normative effect on society as a whole. When the Riksdag criminalized child abuse in 1979, it was clear how the standards of what is okay and what is not. The fact that today we see it as self-evident that one must not beat children is a consequence of political decisions that changed the standards of society. Unfortunately, the law of consent itself will not put an end to sexual harassment and abuse. But it's a piece, because it's enough now.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-148	Mr President, I would like to The abuse and repression have occurred everywhere, in schools, in workplaces, in the community, in homes, online and in mobile phones. Then why has it been quiet? Why haven't we protested before? Sometimes you get those questions. Many testify that they have told but have not been taken seriously. We can also see that the propensity to report is low and that the evidence is difficult. We'll have to read about it all the time. What they risk by telling is friends, workmates, work and reputation. Yeah, you heard right, it's the women who risk their reputation, or it's been that way. Early on we girls learn strategies to get out of or round situations, physically or with a joke. Or refraining from something we really want to do. Or not to tell us about the shameful thing we've been exposed to, but to hide it far into ourselves. It affects our lives far more than we understand. It'll be like a reflex. What, then, moves us to adopt strategies? Well, we live in an unequal society. Even as a child, we learn what applies from the community around us. Many learn it the hard way, from good uncles or from the boys in the class. But we all learn it through what we read and what we see and what we are met with. Many are the pieces of the puzzle: everything from traditional gender roles in the home and a gender-segregated labour market to coarse language and gross pornography, which is easily accessible even to young people. There we are expected to be in a certain way – different depending on whether we are girls or guys. Preventive work on evaluation discussions at school cannot be stressed enough. The current sex and cohabitation education is of varying quality and can distinguish widely between classrooms that are walled. It's who you have as a teacher who decides if there's anything more than just a lesson about how children become. To conduct conversation with knowledge and security in its role that turns and twists what we see around us is crucial. Pornography, which is highly present in the lives of young boys and men, affects the view of women and men. A large majority of guys have seen and watch porn regularly. The more they look, the harder they look for porn. What, then, does the pictures do with the view of the other sex? When men shove their genitals so far down the woman's throat that she vomits, does it teach respect and care for each other? No, probably not. Few of the young people turn to their parents to discuss this. There must be an adult world that meets these questions and responds to the vision that is often encountered through pornography. It takes good teaching material to handle it well. We also welcome the inclusion of consent and negligence in the Sex Crimes Act. We tried to get it in back in 2004, but we were pretty lonely back then. But this must go hand in hand with sex and cohabitation education in order for us to change the culture that exists today. The oppression of half the population has suddenly, in just a few weeks, been made visible in an unprecedented way. The fact that half the population is subjected to harassment clearly has consequences for gender equality at all levels, in society, in private life, in working life. Of course, it affects work environment and career, health and energy in general. Yes, much is affected by this. Many thanks to Rossana and the Left for initiating this debate!
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-159	Metoo is in scope and number of victims to compare with a natural disaster. Then we must also be prepared for it. What happens when Facebook groups close? So what do we do? What do we do with the young woman who for the first time has dared to tell her that her boyfriend is raping her? What about the children's stories of sexual violence at school? Among the more than 70 000 women who have witnessed in the different Facebook groups are many who now need professional support to deal with what has come up. For many women all over the country, this is the first time in their lives they have told us about severe abuse. Some people have traumas that need to be processed. Others are now accumulating courage and trying to take the step of leaving the life situation in which they find themselves. Here society needs to see the enormous scale and provide corresponding support. As with major national crises, society needs to respond with readiness. We therefore propose the creation of a National Crisis Commission to coordinate work with those who have told us and now need the support of society. The Landstingen needs to ensure that those who now need professional support are reached and that the capacity to receive them is available. There is a need to disseminate information on how to report to the police and on what support can be obtained for it. Schools need to inform students where they can turn if they have been exposed and what they can do if they know that others have been exposed. We are in a state of disaster and must act accordingly. During this term of office, we have increased the funding for women's and women's shelters by 100 million per year. I therefore welcome the Center Party's proposal to increase those appropriations further. It is also important that there should be permanent funding. This debate shows that there are several proposals in which we are close in terms of legislation, training of the judiciary and sex and cohabitation education in schools. But I lack proposals for economic equality – what can really break women's subordination. For the woman who is exposed at home, it is vital not to be financially dependent on your partner to leave. We must have secure employment, equal parental insurance, decent pensions and a workable health insurance. I wish that we could see these proposals as a necessary part of the Metoo revolution.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-167	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to worry about. There is every reason to worry and be upset that men also suffer in close relationships and that men are raped and oppressed. I am convinced that these men too have great pleasure in the debate we are currently having. There is reason to be alarmed and upset by the fact that men also suffer in an unequal and gender-segregated society. They get much worse results in school. The male role often means that you are exposed to and affected by violence and ill health. That is also why liberals have been fighting for equality for over 100 years. There is also cause for concern about the deep human nature of the fact that, when discussing equality and pointing out men, many men are closing their ears. One of our most prominent gender equality debaters and researchers, Anna Wahl, taught me this when I was new as a gender equality minister: If you want to make a real difference, you need to talk so that everyone listens as well. This creates some problems when, thanks to the Metoo stories, we now see a pattern that fills what we already v iceste, namely that almost 100% of those charged or convicted of rape are men and that the harassment that the Metoo stories testify to is committed by men. There's no way around this. It is up to all of us feminists to find a language or a way to talk about this that makes everyone want to listen. But we can't worry about silence. I would like to pay tribute to the young civil society in the form of the Fatta movement, which organises boys' dinners in this House under the leadership of my liberal colleague Robert Hannah for men to start talking about it. I think that the Metoo movement and all the stories now make this so clear that many ears open. A lot of men don't want to be part of this but also need to stretch their backs and distance themselves and show them where they stand. We must expect that and dare to demand it. In addition to major and important efforts in relation to sexual crimes and in terms of the knowledge that must be in the hands of those who represent us and will work for an equal society – in preschool, in school, in the police, in the judiciary and in healthcare – we must ensure that there are resources for knowledge and education. The regulatory framework is largely in place. It is now about civil courage, courage and knowledge. But I would also like to agree with Rossana Dinamarca that this is about something bigger. We have seen something that characterizes our whole society. That is why the issues of pay differentials and unfair pensions are also very important in the metoo debate. Rossana and I are not always in favour of the same solutions here, but I think it is very important to point out that the fight must also take place in the area of economic equality.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-175	Mr President, I would like to The Metoo movement is helping to show that fine words in this House about equality are not enough. There is also a need for concrete action. This is where we have the most important task as legislators: to try to have a normative effect through legislation. We Christian Democrats want to tighten the penalties for serious sexual offences. We believe that sex must always be voluntary. That's why a consent law is very important. We also want the perpetrator's negligence to be punishable, and we want the penalties for violent and sexual crimes to be generally tightened. We need to get tougher about sex crimes. It is of the utmost importance that sexual crime legislation offers legal certainty and comprehensive criminalisation of all forms of sexual abuse. Although evidence testing is often difficult in sexual crime cases, the current legislation has been criticised for not offering sufficient protection against abuse. Over the past 20 years, the number of reported rapes has more than quadrupled in Sweden. The amendment of the law has increased the propensity to notify, but the assessment is that the offences in actual numbers are also increasing. The number of events that can be described as sexual offences in the National Security Survey 2016 amounts to 482,000 – that is the largest number that the Crime Prevention Council has measured. In July 2013, the Alliance government tightened the sexual crime legislation, extending rape to cases where the victim reacts with inaction. Unfortunately, too few crimes are still being investigated adequately and where prosecution takes place. The darker number for rape is estimated to be very large. Many women who have been raped choose not to report. It depends on a lot of things. It could be a question of mistrust of state institutions and the judiciary. They may feel that the complaint and trial involve excessive personal costs and fear reprisals from the offender. Then it is important that the attitude of society and the judiciary towards rape victims is changed through knowledge and that the judicial process should review the perpetrator's behaviour in connection with rape and not the victim's. On 5 October 2016, the 2014 Sex Crimes Committee submitted its conclusions to the Government. The Committee's conclusions open the way for consent to be required and for participation in a sexual act to be voluntary. When this committee has put forward proposals, I think it is important that we bring forward the assent legislation as soon as possible. It is gratifying that the Government's aim is to return to Parliament as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to comment on the gender equality authority. I hope, of course, that the government's proposal to establish an equality authority will pay off and that it will provide more equality. But I see it as problematic when, in order to finance this gender equality agency, we cut back on activities around the country that work against sexual violence. We Christian Democrats have another proposal on how we can work to coordinate various actions against sexual violence. We will come back to this afternoon when we have a debate on equality and integration.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-183	Mr President, I would like to The social model that most of us stand for is based on women as well as men working. But metoo reveals, in addition to abuse and harassment, that women – adult women with different educational backgrounds, including those with the highest – are all too often dependent on men. We have strengthened the legislation on discrimination during our time in the government. For me, it has also been important to strengthen large sectors of the labour market where many women work, such as care for the elderly and social services, with funds from the government in order to create better working conditions, which in turn is the task of the parties to secure. It is about being able to use all your skills and that you should be able to develop yourself. Above all, you should have good working hours and good conditions for doing the job you are trained to be. This is important in order to break the dependency. Of course, the parties have a huge responsibility. In particular, when it comes to harassment, employers have a very clear responsibility in the legislation. At the meeting we had last week, it came to the conclusion that harassment is, of course, also directed against women who often have the task of meeting customers, clients and patients in the first line, who unfortunately sometimes represent harassment. It is good that many people want to contribute to gender equality. The Equality Authority will not solve all the major problems that we have discussed today, but it is an important step in bringing together the important efforts that we have discussed here. The agency has fresh money – I can be pleased with that. It has been very important to invest in this authority in a way that makes it really get muscle. We must continue to strengthen the work on gender equality, as we have decided. But we also need to make more sharp proposals. Thank you for giving us hope, those of you who have participated in the Metoo!
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-188	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the participants for a good debate with a good tone and a common view that policy must contribute here in order for it to be a change in the future. For me, the Moderates are Sweden's most important political force for freedom. Our values are based on and are about individual freedom but also about joint responsibility. Gender equality is a freedom issue, and the Metoo movement addresses shortcomings in Swedish gender equality. That is why this is important to us Moderates. We're not backing back from the troubles. We are not backing away from equality. But we will always back down all these brave women who have shared their history. Today, over 50 000 women have signed one of the Metoo calls. In one of the world's most equal countries, no one should be subjected to sexual harassment or violence. It is clear that we need to join forces, and we need to talk more about equality and respect between people – in school, in politics, in the workplace and in society. Let us continue our joint efforts to make gender equality an integral part of our society and to ensure that policies never forget to focus on gender equality. I am grateful for this debate. I see it as a starting point for us to be able to raise our ambitions when it comes to Swedish gender equality. What we are doing today plays a role and is crucial to how gender equality will continue to be managed for future generations.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-193	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to say. I'm sure we could debate for several more hours. As Mrs Désirée mentioned, we will have a debate this afternoon on, among other things, the Equality Agency. It applies to all policies in the field of gender equality and integration. There are definitely things that politics can do. But I believe and hope that we will also be vigilant in the back. Consent legislation is something that I personally have long thought makes sense, not least for the normative effect it should have. It should be obvious that if you sleep with someone, it's because it wants to sleep with you and nothing else. But there are also risks if one highlights this as the solution to the problem: that this will cause all those who are not being judged today to be judged. We want to preserve the rule of law. At least I want to maintain a reasonable burden of proof. If we are not clear about this, there is a risk that even more people will feel betrayed once more when they believe that their testimony alone will be able to have perpetrators convicted. That is why it is extremely important to focus on precisely normative effects. It is about clear talks and being extremely clear about where the borders are. I'll be clear with everyone I meet and tell you where my boundaries go. I will also make it clear that I am willing to listen to their boundaries. In these discussions and in individual conversations, there have been many things that have upset me several times. I have heard women who have claimed their right to say no and yet like it, without taking any account of the fact that, in that case, you should be clear to your partner and say that you like it here yourself and have given your permission in advance. There are others who think it's okay for some men to be innocently convicted now, because we women have been suffering for so long. But no, it's not okay. I am convinced that we will come back to these issues for a long time to come. I would like to end by thanking all those who refuse to be silent, whether it is about victims, about those close to them who see them or about those who have actually asked: Is it okay that I touch you like this?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-198	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say a few words about the legislation on consent. There is probably no one who believes that it is the whole solution to the problem, and it is clear that it does not lower the demands for evidence. It is important to emphasise this. I still think it will capture many parts that are now missing. The debate today has been important and fruitful. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Left Party, which initiated it. Many different aspects of the problem and the scope have emerged. The different parties take a slightly different view of the solutions. What is extremely hopeful is everyone's willingness and commitment to change in this area. That's enough. Assault is an expression of power and dominance. Although Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, metoo shows that we still have a long way to go. The struggle must continue on many fronts. It needs to be carried in this House, especially when money is distributed in the state budget, which several have been involved in. It needs to be put in the police's priorities, which is also an extremely important part. It needs to be carried in the workplace, so that you take hold of what comes out, as well as in the courtrooms, at school and at home at the kitchen tables. We must have respect for each other and zero tolerance of abuse and violence. Now is the time for change. Together we can achieve it. I think we have such a common ambition.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-202	Mr President, I would like to Democratic rights, economic freedom and physical integrity are three important dimensions for an equal society. For those of you who are looking at this debate and want to know where to turn if you need support and help, there is Kvinnofridslinjen with phone number 020 – 50 50 50. You can call every hour of the day, it costs nothing and the call is not visible on the phone bill. Socionomers and nurses will answer your questions. You can remain anonymous, and you will receive advice and support on both how to proceed and where to turn. The phone is available for those who are personally exposed, for those who are dependent or may suspect that someone close to you is exposed and for those who come into contact with something and need to know more. Don't hesitate to spread the knowledge! So the telephone number is 020 ‐ 50 50 50. What's hidden in snow comes up in the moor. Many believed that what was done was hidden and forgotten for time and eternity, but metoo has put a combined force in motion that allows us never again to accept what we thought we had to put up with. Now the challenge is not to back off when you get too close, but to stand up for the equal value of people, but some subordination or subordination. What is interesting now is that we can see that we have far more with us. If, in the past, it was a collective women's movement that had a debate on the issues, the Metoo has now opened the eyes of many more. When we enter next year, have thrown out the Christmas tree and cancelled the last of the mulled we will continue with the work to make sure that actually makes a difference. Then there will be more of us who have understood how widespread this is and who are prepared to make a difference. Thank you for the debate.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-207	As we have noted during the debate, there is sexism in all the arenas of society. In all arenas there are also examples of men who commit sexual harassment and abuse. Even when it becomes public knowledge, it leads too rarely to action. There is always some other interest that weighs more than taking sexual harassment seriously. We know that in several cases people in positions of power have moved on to finer positions when sexism has come to light. Metoo places demands on all organisations, both companies and public activities, as well as associations and parties. The problems that exist everywhere in society are also with us in this room. There's no protected zone. Metoo shows the importance of never settling down as an organization and believing that you are finished, nor the Riksdag. During the two months that have gone by since the start of the Metoo revolution, the light has come to light, both in the world and here in Sweden. While there is a sadness in seeing all the suffering and how women have been kept down, in the movement, which has now emerged, there is also something incredibly hopeful. There is a mighty power and a strong sisterhood. Let us make sure that this leads to lasting change! Let us make sure that the patriarchy falls during our lifetime!
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-210	Mr President, I would like to I became a liberal feminist in 1976. At that time it said that in Folkpartiet's Sweden it is no disadvantage to be a woman, and I would vote for the first time. Per Ahlmark spoke of the need for legislation on discrimination and the equal value of women as men. I also learned about a proud liberal history of universal and equal suffrage, special taxation and parental insurance. I have been given the privilege to take advantage of and participate in and to work as a political expert and eventually as a gender equality minister for improved parental insurance. And Nyamko Sabunis fight against the oppression of honour, I had to move on. I feel proud of this in many ways. However, not least as Minister for Equal Opportunities, I was sometimes asked when I was out talking: why is it so slow? We know everything, and everything is in place, and yet nothing happens. In the end, the answer is guilty. I've been thinking a lot about why things are going so slowly. My answer has been about the very deep structures that exist within each and every one of us and what we constantly reproduce against better knowledge. I have also pointed to preschool and school as the places where we could make a real difference. That is why this horrendous metoo debate has also given us some hope, because I seriously believe that we have not really been able to talk about the most profound thing, the repression that comes closest to us. I think we should thank each other for an important first debate. The only thing that can threaten us now is that we are not persistent, that we fall asleep and pile up the stories. However, I do not believe that the metoo calls will allow us to do so.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-214	Mr President, I would like to Work to prevent and combat violence in close relationships, rapes and other sexual abuse, such as honour-related violence and repression, must continue. It is important that we identify and take more concrete measures from a preventive, protective and punitive point of view. Now it is important that we continue to listen to the stories that have come to light, so that we do not forget what we have heard and what we need to fix. Many of the women at risk are twice as vulnerable, i.e. they are vulnerable and unable to seek help. I am thinking of those who are victims of honor-related violence. It is good that the Left Party has highlighted the debate today, but it is remarkable that the Left Party does not highlight this group, which has so much difficulty in being heard, more. Doublely exposed women, who often live in our suburbs, do not speak. Let us not forget the work that needs to be done in this area. Mr President, I would like to We must not turn a blind eye to violence against women wherever it occurs. I have worked with gender equality issues for over 30 years in politics. A lot of positive things have happened. But Metoo and all the stories we hear show that the work is not over. Gender equality and the work for everyone's human rights require us to continue to keep the issue high on our agenda in our families, in society, in schools and in Parliament's chambers. Thank you for a good debate!
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-219	Mr President, I would like to I've said several times that Metoo still gives me great hope. It is precisely because the women in Metoo have exposed why things are going so slowly. It's about power. The history of gender equality policy shows that gender equality takes steps when decisions are taken on measures whose purpose is precisely gender equality. The problem for those who have pushed the issues has often been that they are faced with counter-attacks, sometimes ridicule and that issues become controversial when power is moved. There have been reforms such as abortion legislation, special taxation and parental insurance, and these are proposals that give both men and women the driving force to be parents. I am pleased with the debate, because it shows strong support for active gender equality work with concrete decisions. I represent a feminist government, and it obliges me to do so. I place high demands on myself, on the government and on our partners for us to put forward concrete proposals that move forward positions in order for life to be equal, as women and girls in the Metoo ask with such a loud, clear and clear voice. I am therefore pleased with the seriousness of the debate. I think it creates an opportunity to work in this way for the rest of the term of office and into the 2020s. I hope so. Thank you to everyone for their participation, and thank you to the Left Party for taking the initiative in this debate.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-223	Mr President, I would like to Local water treatment, wind power towers in wood, silico-algae cultivation and smart monitoring of municipal water networks – these are some of the techniques and areas that the entrepreneurs I met at Chalmers last week work with. They are based on a little different social problems and have a little different solutions. In common, however, they all have an ambition and a dream that their companies will grow and become something big and significant. The cultured algae, for example, can replace more dangerous ingredients in sunscreen, but they can also increase the efficiency of solar cells. These are examples of companies, startups, where there is close collaboration between research and research results with some of the most driven entrepreneurs in Sweden in one of the leading environments we have at Chalmers. The Chalmers examples show things that are good and work well in Sweden: prominent universities, exciting research results and talented entrepreneurs. We also know that the majority of new jobs come from smaller companies that start and grow. It is therefore important to provide the right conditions. Sweden is now benefiting and being helped, Mr President, by a boom. It's going well, not least in my hometown of Gothenburg, where we see an incredible number of Volvo cars being sold and major investments are being made in future vehicle development in areas such as electrification, hybridisation and autonomous vehicles. It is good for Gothenburg and for Sweden. The economic cycle also means that many people who stand a bit from the labour market have better opportunities to enter. Beyond the economic situation, I believe, Mr President, it is important that we, as political leaders, can both enjoy and benefit from the lessons and benefits of the economic boom, but also have the ability to speak clearly about the problems and challenges facing Sweden in the coming years. One thing that we have not been able to resolve during this parliamentary term is the lack of housing. I wish it could have happened, for a number of reasons. Not least, housing shortages prevent businesses from growing. Unfortunately, the political will required for this did not exist. If we look a bit forward, there are a couple of bigger challenges and problems for Sweden. The first is integration. We know that many people have come to Sweden. Not everyone can stay; many get it. This is a huge challenge for Sweden. We all know how important the job is for integration and for income, language and context. The Moderates and colleagues in the Alliance have a package for jobs and integration, with a number of reforms: tripled RUT deductions, new forms of employment, entry if it does not work out with the party negotiations, reasonable tax rules for small businesses and entrepreneurs and a strong regulatory simplification package. A second area, Mr President, is competition and competitiveness in the long term. Competition is intensifying, and it is nothing new that Swedish companies are allowed to compete hard with other parts of the world or that it is tough both at home and further away. But we also see other countries and regions growing and investing heavily in research and education. Countries that could compete with lower wages in the past now have solutions that are as innovative and technologically advanced as those that the leading Swedish engineers can come up with. This calls for reflection, insight and political action. In the different areas of politics, we need to think about what we can do to lift Sweden in different ways. We must continue to compare ourselves with others and, in such a comparison, understand that we need to have longer school days in education, higher expectations of students and more mathematics in school and get programming as a school subject. We must also realise that tax levels and conditions for both entrepreneurs and employees must be reasonable and encourage industriousness and ability. We must also see that digitalisation is at the heart of competition and competitiveness. It means opportunities and a transition in Sweden in the long term, and we also see big investments, which is very fun. For example, the Wallenberg Foundations have chosen to allocate large amounts of money, about SEK 1 billion, to Linköping University for research on artificial intelligence, and another approximately SEK 600 million to Chalmers for research on quantum technology. This is really exciting! But in this context we must also look up and see that other countries are making almost enormous efforts. For example, the three largest telecom operators in China choose to invest around USD 180 billion in 5G technology in the coming years. This means that it is difficult for us in Sweden to compete with money with countries such as China or the United States. We urgently need to consider our role in this context and how we can benefit from Sweden and Swedish benefits. McKinsey, for example, has pointed out that if one were to take advantage of all the possibilities of digitalisation in Sweden, one could streamline the public sector by about SEK 300 billion. It is devastating that, at the same time, we are having a debate about stopping entrepreneurship and innovation in welfare activities. One thing we want to do is to invest in a research institute for applied artificial intelligence. This could complement what universities and industry do. You don't do everything, but you can focus on things like application, what systems are needed, how to do and the interface between technology, economics and law. In this way, one could contribute to Sweden taking a leading position on applied AI in the future. For the sake of competitiveness too, Mr President, over time we should focus on attracting more talented people to Sweden to study, research, start a business or invest money. A good first step is to try to put an end to the totally unreasonable expulsions of skilled IT technicians and others that have happened and are being done; they are being thrown out because of minor errors. Sweden is also a country that is very dependent on both trade and transport. For several years Sweden has been suffering from devastating port problems in Gothenburg. The other week it was announced that after 50 years the company ACL will stop running a direct line between Gothenburg and the east coast. That's where a lot of Swedish goods exports go, so this is really bad for Sweden. The Moderates have extended a hand to the government. We are prepared to sit down to resolve the port problems immediately. I hope the government has the political will. A third major issue in the coming years, Mr President, is security, or rather insecurity. People should be able to trust that the basic tasks of the state are working; we cannot fully rely on that today. Entrepreneurs suffer from things such as fraud and smash-and-grab but are told in Lövven Sverige that it is not worthwhile to report crimes committed. This is not reasonable. In order to restore security and confidence, the Moderates have proposed the largest security effort in Sweden in 20 years, with more policemen with better pay, a series of penalties and better possibilities for camera surveillance. Entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs are heroes. They must feel secure in their daily lives in order to make the necessary investments, which can provide the new jobs and secure the funding of welfare. When it comes to developments in recent years, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has carried out a large survey among entrepreneurs in the country and asked how they experience the conditions for starting and running companies in Sweden. During the last three years under Mikael Damberg's management, two out of three entrepreneurs feel that it has become more difficult to start and run a business. I do not think, Mr President, that things have always become more complicated without a perceived feeling. Much is going well in Sweden, but it is felt that a lot of information and decisions regarding taxes and procurement and in other areas have gone in the wrong direction. There is, for example, a devastating discussion about profits in welfare – about pushing away important welfare activities when needed. We Moderates, together with our colleagues in the Alliance, have an idea of trying to reverse this negative trend. We have common ideas, reforms and programmes to gradually develop Sweden and make it a better country for entrepreneurs, so that thought and action are connected when we talk about entrepreneurs.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-245	Mr President, I would like to It has now been such a long time into the parliamentary term that it may be time to sum up a little – to do a chronicle, if you like. This is the last time this parliamentary term that we are going to debate the design of the state budget in Category 24 Enterprise. Despite the fact that we have eight parties in the Swedish Parliament, two of which are in the government, one can see that there is only one reservation in this report, and it is from the Swedish Democrats. So there is only one alternative to the government's proposal to vote for tomorrow's vote, and that is an alternative to the government's tax-boosting policy and for more new and growing companies. Of course I am in favour of this reservation. Mr President, I would like to As I suggested a little in my introduction, during this parliamentary term we have had an exceptionally weak opposition. At the December agreement it was decided to give an extremely weak minority government, with weakness for Marxist solutions to today's social problems, free play for up to eight years. Since then we have had four alliance parties whose representatives go to work every day with the aim of getting as little policy as possible. In my world, this is a terrible way of managing the confidence of voters. We in the Swedish Democrats have, in any case, given the alliance parties the chance to bring down the current government. However, they have not been interested in this. Center Party leader Annie Lööf said in preparation for the 2014 election that she would rather eat her shoe than act as support party for Stefan Löfven. If Annie Lööf has eaten any shoes or not, I really don't know – I don't really have that transparency in the Center Party – but at least she has been a guarantor that the socialist government has been able to remain in place. It's perfectly clear. The same is true of the liberals and feminists in the Liberals. Jan Björklund has signalled that it intends to support continued socialist rule during the next term rather than act like an adult and sit down at a table and discuss politics with my own party leader. Such an impotent opposition would have no historical or international counterpart. Mr President, I would like to The Socialist government, on the other hand, has delivered. Perhaps there was not so much with the new industrialization strategy that they made a large number of in the election movement. On the other hand, new taxes have been delivered that hit Swedish companies, not least the electronics tax that was introduced some time ago and is so ill thought out that you almost fall off the chair of wonder. Similarly, we are pushing for a climate policy in which the overall objective seems to be to drive all industrial activities out of the country. It has also delivered a planned economic energy strategy, which has even been fooled with the Moderates. Then all I have to do is say, "Good job, Löfven! That this will hit the Swedish business environment very hard you hardly need to be an Einstein to figure out. Mr President, I would like to I suspect that in a little while we will hear representatives of the government parties standing here in the pulpit and taking on the credit of the global economic boom. Of course, they will not express themselves in that way. But I feel quite confident that they will pat themselves on the back of, for example, the falling unemployment and speed in Swedish industry. They may also take credit for the fact that the demand for products in Swedish industry is so great that they are not able to deliver everything that the Chinese want. We have freedom of expression, and it is clear that there is nothing I want to change in any way. But I'm saying maybe it doesn't necessarily have to be true just for that. When I have visited industrial companies with growth potential in Sweden, it has rather been the case that the government's passivity has been an obstacle to expanding its operations. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have entered a new phase during this term of office. During the last parliamentary term, we were able to pronounce obvious things like that the sky is blue or anything. Then, indeed, all the other seven parties would argue against and say that it might be green or something completely different. It's not really like that anymore. Instead, during this term of office something has happened, and now the copying machines have started to go hot. Not against me, it is great fun if other parties adopt the policy of the Swedish Democrats. But it is quite impressive at what speed the Moderates and Social Democrats, above all, have begun to adopt our policy. Sometimes it has actually been quite tragic to see. Often the Moderates have gone first, turned 180 degrees on one issue to attack the Social Democrats a week later because they have not seen the light, of course without pretending that there is another party, namely my own, which may have felt that way for a number of decades. Now I will admit that what has just been said may not primarily concern matters that we are dealing with in the Committee on Economic Affairs. But even in our committee we have seen clear advances to parts of our policy. When, for example, the Swedish Democrats presented their strategy for Swedish industry in a spring budget motion, it took less than six months until the Moderates had an industrial movement that was more or less a shortened carbon copy. Again, this is something that we naturally welcome. We believe that industrial policy is extremely important. It is the engine of the Swedish economy, and it is absolutely vital for many mills and rural towns outside large cities. Mr President, I would like to As has perhaps been shown, the Swedish Democrats have put on the leadership shirt in terms of politics for the benefit of Swedish industry, which we think is the engine of the Swedish economy. We have also highlighted the issues of simplification. There I mean that the alliance parties for a while really lost momentum. But now these issues are back on the agenda. Unfortunately, I have to say that we have not received much attention on the very vital issue of energy policy. It is tragic to see that we have to run the energy at the bottom before we can clear it from politically correct dogmas that have nothing to do with the laws of physics, as it were. However, I am proud to note that more and more self-employed people have found the policy of the Swedish democrats for small and growing companies, not least because we are making substantial efforts to reduce the wage costs of the first employees. We are also much more cautious in terms of penalising and subsidising things that we like and don't like and keep on disturbing market forces. One of all the reform proposals we have for a growing labour market is a new type of start-up-own grant that we call start-up-own contribution for professionals. We believe that the best business ideas may not necessarily be found among those who have been long-term unemployed. We want to give those who work at a company and perhaps have a great business idea, but who do not feel that they have such security that they dare to leave the job to try their wings, a push to try their wings. That is why we are putting quite a considerable effort into this new type of start-up-own grant.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-261	Mr President, I would like to In the coming years, I mean that Sweden will face a number of slightly larger societal challenges and problems. We, for our part, are trying to spend quite a lot of time with them. It is about integration, competitiveness and so on. We should be pleased that this is a good economic situation right now and think about future problems and challenges. This is the serious way of thinking, if we are serious about continuing to make Sweden better. I think what Mr Fransson said was symptomatic, namely that the major social problem for him and the Swedish Democrats is that there could sometimes be an overlap when we put forward a concrete political proposal that the Swedish Democrats happen to agree with, or that Josef Fransson has said something in a debate that Minister Damberg then happens to implement and that this is then the major social problem. Mr President, I would like to What I want to get into is a completely different matter. Josef Fransson comes from Skövde, and in Skövde there is Volvo. Volvo has the world's largest diesel engine factory for large diesel engines. Much of what they produce is exported. I think that a problematic part for Josef Fransson and the Swedish Democrats is the opposition to the EU and EU membership. We are now seeing what has happened with Brexit and that Britain is about to leave the EU – what chaos and confusion there will be in this context. It is therefore perfectly legitimate to have that view – I will be clear about it – but it also shows disadvantages. The EU is not perfect in any way, but when you are in the whole Brexit process, we can see how messy it is, for example, on the Irish island, between Northern Ireland and Ireland. How will border crossings work? How to deal with the EU Customs Union The only common denominator in what all the experts say in this context is that it will get worse. It will be worse for Swedes who live and work in the UK and worse for Swedish companies. It is the same for British companies if they are to be in the common market. Therefore, I wonder, Josef Fransson : Why do you want to, which is still from Skövde and given the effects it could have if Sweden leaves the EU, so clearly worse for Swedish companies by leaving the European Union?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-266	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Helmered for the questions; I think it is about the fifth consecutive debate that I receive almost the same question from Lars Helmered. As I have said on a number of occasions at this time, the Swedish Democrats for a Free Trade Union are also continuing. We want European cooperation in a number of areas. However, we are opposed to the supranationality and the United States of Europe that a certain Martin Schulz, it was well, went out here in the days. We have a slightly different view of Europe, and I believe that today's Europe must fall if we are to regain our freedom. I really can't understand why the Moderates think they need guardians who decide everything from big to small. Why do we need guardians down in Brussels? Are we not wise enough in this congregation to make wise decisions? I think the Swedish people would appreciate it if it is the politicians they have the opportunity to vote forward who actually decide their fate. That is not the situation today. Today we have those in power down in Brussels who decide both big and small. The Swedish people have not chosen them, and the Swedish people cannot remove them either. I see that as an incredibly big problem. I have been sitting alongside Lars Hjälmered in the committee work here in Parliament for quite a few years, and I know how the Moderates are really pushing for the EU not to take over Swedish forestry issues. That's what's important. But on the day when the EU takes forestry issues and forestry policy away from Sweden, the Moderates will not become EU-critical, but they will take it. Time and again you take all these bad things with Brussels and the European Union. Why not do it again, do it right and make it a free trade union?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-270	Mr President, I would like to Abortion legislation and forestry policy are, in my view, two clear examples of issues that are best decided in this House and not in Brussels. This is a clear view that not only the Moderates have in Swedish politics. So Europe is not a perfect organisation in any way; it must be nurtured and developed. But let us be clear that, despite all its shortcomings, it offers incredible opportunities for Swedish young people, who can work in another country or study at universities in France or Italy under Swedish conditions. It also offers opportunities for the internal market. It has to be filed and developed, but I would say that one conclusion for us is to take care of this with the digital single market and seize the opportunities that come with digitalisation. There is also a difference here, Mr President. When we say that it is not perfect but that we want to care for, develop and remain in this club and in this context, Fransson Josef's message is to leave the EU. Now that the British are into this, we see that there will be chaos and disorder. All the experts – the National Board of Trade and many others – say that it will get worse. It will be worse for the British, worse for Swedes and worse for Swedish companies. Customs handling and mobility will be more complicated. In the extension of what Josef Fransson and the Swedish Democrats say, there is a swexit, that is, that Sweden should leave the EU. What does that mean? Well, that means, for example, that the important diesel engine factory in Skövde will have – everything else equal – worse conditions. It hits the important industrial jobs in Skövde and Västergötland, and that's what I find difficult to see. In the speaker's chair, Josef Fransson speaks warmly for the industry and the opportunities, but at the same time fundamentally misses out on the important trade opportunity that the EU actually offers in this context. Why?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-274	Mr President, I would like to It feels like there is going to be some round-up in the discussion and that these are issues we have discussed both once and twice before. Lars Helmered had only two issues which he thinks we can keep for ourselves, but which the EU might want to take over. I think, however, that there are far more; rather, I think that it is about 90% of all issues that are dealt with down in Brussels and that have power over there that we could well manage on our own. Just take one such thing as the perfectly macabre energy union that you are going to invest so astronomical sums in that I hardly dare to say them, because if I repeat that figure, I will probably end up on Youtube in a joke clip. These are such incredible sums – for an energy policy. We do not need overcoats from Brussels to cope with our energy policy. I do not think we need to overcoat down in Brussels to cope with our labour market policy, or even climate policy or anything at all. As far as free trade is concerned, however, I have said that the Swedish Democrats are positive. We want a free trade union, and we want European cooperation on standards, perhaps chemicals legislation and things directly linked to free trade. Lars Hjälmered highlighted this with the British, and a two-word discussion of chaos and disorder. I say that the EU's full of power has never shown its ugly face more than during the Brexit negotiations, where leadership seriously says that Britain has to pay SEK 400 billion to even leave the EU. Otherwise, you don't even sit at the table and discuss transitional rules. It's a power demonstration of the most disgusting battle I've ever seen. It is not a Union I want to be a part of. I want a new European cooperation.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-278	Mr President, I would like to In my neighboring village Flarken lives Anniqa Nygård and her husband Arne Edström. They are pig producers, and they also make home deliveries of handcrafted food to both private individuals and restaurants. It is obvious to Anniqa and her family that the food products are stored and transported at the right temperature. However, the authorities do not trust this, but require a separate measurement every day. You want to know that the temperatures are in a certain range. It is therefore not enough with Anniqas's temperature meter, but there should be a separate one. This is just one of many administrative requirements imposed on these entrepreneurs on a daily basis. Anniqa says that she would have liked the authorities to have more confidence in entrepreneurs instead of just controlling them. This is a clear example of the legal problem that you government parties are actually saying you want to get away from. Every year, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise conducts surveys among Swedish companies on the business environment. A recurring response among entrepreneurs is that the regulatory burden is a major problem, as well as that development seems to be going in the wrong direction. In the last survey, carried out in 2017, 60 per cent of the companies replied that they are experiencing regulatory problems as one of the most important issues to deal with. 60 percent believe they could save more than six hours a month if the rules were simplified. In fact, 64 percent responds that the regulatory burden has become heavier compared to just two years ago. It is clear that rules must exist, but if they are so burdensome and time-consuming that they counteract increased competitiveness and have a negative and inhibitory effect on companies, something is wrong. Indeed, the negative trend that has developed in recent years must reverse. It is in the small and growing companies that the potential exists to create new jobs in Sweden, and then the job creators must have significantly reduced thresholds to take the step and hire. As I said, one step in this direction is to reduce the rule jungle. The Center Party proposes, among other things, the introduction of the principle of a rule in and a rule out. This means that if one rule is introduced, someone else has to disappear, or there is a need to compensate for it with quite substantial cost reductions. Furthermore, we believe that more rules should be given so-called sunset clauses. This means that a rule is given an end date, and if you see no more advantages than disadvantages of the rule at the end date, the rule must disappear. Mr President, I would like to The biggest obstacle to business growth is high costs of hiring. In the case of one-man companies, the Center Party has therefore proposed – once again – to avoid paying employers' contributions for the first employee during the first two years, and this applies to all forms of enterprise. This is something that I have tested at companies around the country when I have visited them and that is received very positively. Another suggestion, Mr President, that we have put forward in our budget is that we should be able to set up entry companies. This is a fancy word, but it is quite simple in practice. All you need is a good business idea and a mobile phone. Maximum annual turnover is SEK 250 000. You don't have to pay VAT and employers' contributions. Instead, you pay a flat rate of 25 percent via an app in your mobile phone connected to the Swedish Tax Agency. This makes it easier for new Swedes and young people to start their first business, for example. We want to increase the ceiling for RUT so that you can make deductions of up to 75 000 SEK per household and year. We also want to broaden the range of services to be covered by RUT. Mr President, I would like to Another important factor for companies is venture capital. It is good that the government is now switching public venture capital into private venture capital, as this makes the bag of money bigger. Unfortunately, however, the government does not see the needs throughout the country. The government closed down the venture capital company Inlandsinnovation, which entered venture capital in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna. Today, instead, it is a national fund. I don't know exactly what's going on with Saminvest-- it would be nice if the Minister of Economic Affairs could say a few words about it. The problem is that there may be a risk of investment becoming more big city-fixed, and I am very afraid of that. It is great that the government assists the Norrland Foundation with 200 million, but I can still think that in this context it feels like the irony of fate – you take 2 000 million from vulnerable areas that have difficulties with venture capital and then give back 200 million. You take nine tenths and you give back a tenth. Mikael Damberg shakes his head, but I feel this is tremendously provocative. When Mikael Damberg is still in the Chamber, I can say that I saw a clip on SVT where the Minister for Economic Affairs said that this was very good, because it was done to strengthen Northern companies. I do not know if the Minister sees that it is a problem that you take so much money from an area and give back so little while saying that you invest in northern companies and that we should now be happy. I feel that it is rather a provocation, although I think 200 million is better than zero. Mr President, I would like to Another proof of the government's urban turnaround and neglect of the countryside is the airline tax and the tax at a distance for trucks. What I cannot understand is this: you say that you want to do this for environmental reasons, but yet you do not give any opportunity for companies to change. It does not reward those companies that want to be environmentally friendly, that run on environmentally friendly fuel or that use biofuels for aviation. Instead, they want to tax everyone, whether they are doing the right thing or they are doing the wrong thing. For me, this is rather a fiscal tax, which is used to plug all the holes in the treasury and to fulfill all the promises in the expansive budget that they want to put forward in 2018. Although the proposal for a kilometre tax has been withdrawn, it is still being dealt with in the Government Office. Instead of throwing this proposal into the trash can, it continues to be processed, and I would not be surprised if it comes back at full speed in the spring. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to talk a little about women's entrepreneurship. I have been quite involved in this matter. I have travelled around Sweden and met many entrepreneurs who are women. Today, one in four entrepreneurs is a woman, which is a pretty bad rating for one of the world's most equal countries. One might wonder why it has become this way. One of the reasons is that many women started working in the public sector when women started working in the 1960s and 1970s. One of them was my mother. Many have worked there throughout their working lives. They've had a bad salary and then got a very bad pension. In 2009, the Alliance government introduced the right to choose healthcare, school and care providers. It can be seen that the curves for women's entrepreneurship began to point upwards in this context, but when discussions on setting a profit ceiling for welfare companies came up the figures fell again. Now the government's special investigator Ilmar Reepalu has completed his investigation into capping profits in welfare. If the proposal in this study were to go through, thousands of companies with women at the helm would be forced to close down their activities. As the proposal is designed, it will be targeted with surgical precision at small businesses, which are often run and owned by women. What, then, can we do to stimulate more women to start up and run businesses? One thing is to review the social security system. This is something that has constantly come up in discussions with women that I have met. From what I understand, the government now has an investigation that looks at this. I welcome this because I believe there is a major problem in this area. The Center Party also proposes an investment in migrant women's entrepreneurship. Such a project has previously been run very successfully by Almi, but it was unfortunately removed by the current government. After discussions with Almi, I understand that this initiative was very successful. I hope that the government will reconsider and reintroduce it, because it is very much in demand. Finally, the Center Party also wants to increase the focus on young entrepreneurship, so that more high school students and more pupils in comprehensive school get the chance. I'm one of those people who grew up in an environment where I didn't know any entrepreneurs. My parents were workers. We didn't hang out with entrepreneurs. For me, it was a completely alien world. For me, it was natural for me to be hired; there was nothing else on the map. I don't think it's that different today. I think many young people grow up in the same environment as I did. Therefore, I believe that the sooner we can get entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship into school, the better. Having said that, I would like to commend the Government, because I have looked at the draft budgets. I see that there is some rapprochement when it comes to women's entrepreneurship and that there are some initiatives that did not exist last year, which I think is great. I would like to say that although we have different ways of pursuing this policy, at least we have a common objective. I think that is very important, and I would like to emphasise this. I hope that all parties continue to work on this issue. It is not only important for gender equality, it is also very important for the Swedish economy.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-304	Mr President, I would like to Welcome here, Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg – glad you are with us in the debate today! Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are the Social Liberal Party of Sweden. Our party is based on an idea of keeping two thoughts in mind at the same time – a social perspective, to protect the weakest in society, as well as a liberal perspective, because we love to see independent individuals grow, develop and start businesses. The combination of these two perspectives into a well-balanced whole is the foundation of social liberalism. In the balance between the social and the liberal, we have unfailing optimism and confidence in man and the society that we have created together to uphold citizens' rights and freedoms. We believe in man, and we believe that a market economy is one of the main forms of individual self-realisation – a market economy strengthened by certain means of control and framework from the public, should confidence between individual and market be put at risk. Mr President, I would like to The gaps and exclusions are growing in Sweden of the Social Democrats. It is not a coincidence but a logical consequence of the fact that we have a government that is in the ranks of the Left Party. Here we have the root of the route unit, which constantly puts the collective ahead of the individual, who would rather see that everyone has it just as bad than that someone gets it a little better through hard work and bold thoughts, who would rather force us into collective and narrow-minded squares than to see creativity bloom. Let us talk about the basis of creativity. Let us talk about the individual and the free thought. It is the smallest element behind our well-being, which makes us dare to live, dream, try, fail and reach the sweetness of victory, which makes us dare to create nutritious and life-giving businesses. For us liberals it should be easy, fun and rewarding to run a business. For us, entrepreneurship is both an expression of the individual's ability to realize his or her ideas and a prerequisite for our common community building. It is through the ability of companies to grow that jobs are created. More jobs in growing companies mean new life opportunities for individuals and reduced exclusion, and in the long run it is a prerequisite for us to be able to implement social policy initiatives. Over the years, this has been formulated in visions from Bertil Ohlin's "free enterprise with social responsibility" to Bengt Westerberg's "Sweden needs both business and kindergarten" – now we would say companies and preschools. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals know that the journey from freedom to freedom begins with faith in man's ability to do great things. Our goal is for all kids to feel Zlatanism, a dream that you are king of your own future, germinate within. When I grew up in West Sweden and worked on the workshop floor at Saab, I saw how important a job is. On the workshop floor you grew as a person when you got responsibility and became part of a community. I call that community the Swedish dream. More people need to get the chance in Sweden, more people need to get the chance on the Swedish labour market and more people need to have peace of mind and opportunities to develop their businesses in peace and quiet beyond stop-ultimatum and profit bans. Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear that Sweden does not need more profit bans in welfare. Sweden needs more bans on clout politicians who are trying to create business policy with five-year plans. I would like to ask those of you who believe that you know better how to run a business than the individual trader himself: Have you ever run your own business? Have you ever gone up into the ottan and stopped until shortly after midnight to work? Have you experienced how the social safety net taken for granted by the worker does not include the entrepreneur, who is still the one who pays for the welfare system? Have you ever planted a crop and seen it grow and develop? Have you opened the door to new people who have taken their first step in the labour market by taking a personal risk and daring to hire them? I have, Mr President, and it is an experience that I have enjoyed in this House. In order to make good laws that strengthen the nutrient climate in a country, there must be an insight, empathy and gratitude for where the foundation of our prosperity lies. I have said it many times before and I say it again, ladies and gentlemen: Prosperity exists in enterprising people. The government may think of the ban on profit as a game to keep the support of the Left Party alive. But for those who are affected, it is a direct blow to the business and to the employees. The imposition of a profit ban on welfare companies is an unprecedented regulatory burden. Only the threat of such legislation has already hit hard at entrepreneurship and innovation in welfare business. One example is that banks have begun to deny expanded welfare funding, as repayment capacity decreases as much as profits are limited. Uncertainty affects welfare entrepreneurs who want to streamline and create better conditions in healthcare, school and care, for example through a centralised IT department or similar. Mr President, I would like to If there is anything to be limited, it is this kind of legislation. At the same time as this happens in Sweden, we read about how the government travels abroad to sell a school group that will be subject to a profit ban at home in Sweden. Hypocrisy knows no bounds here. You're amazed. On 3 December, Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi and Ali Esbati went out in DN and said that profits in welfare should be limited. The next day, Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll says that she does not believe in a profit ceiling and that there will be no such thing. Before the elections, it was said that the cost of sick pay would not increase for companies. After the elections, we saw a very remarkable proposal to roll over 25% of total sick pay costs for up to two years at companies. Fortunately, this proposal was not implemented. But this twitchiness is not welcome among companies, which have difficulty in planning the business. Mr President, I would like to An active enterprise policy must begin and end in the welfare creators who enable us to come together and distribute a state budget. Distributing the state budget over their heads feels fundamentally wrong for those who have worked at Saab Automotives and for those who are entrepreneurs in the higher education world. A lower tax, a reduced regulatory burden and a smarter form of employment had strengthened the conditions for traders. But it is a decision that the Swedish Parliament is not ready to make today. Finally, the Liberals' proposal in this report for how to steer the country in the right direction is to be seen as a whole. It is a comprehensive and balanced draft budget. We see a value in holding the budget process together and thus avoiding individual breakouts from the current budgetary order – contrary to what the Social Democrats did in 2013 when they broke this order and in contrast to what the Swedish Democrats now want to do.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-328	Mr President, I would like to I have a brief question for Mr Said, and it concerns what I mentioned in my speech. Much of what Said Abdu refers to in his speech is good. I am in favour of market liberalisation, freedom for entrepreneurs and all that. The Liberal Party leaders have said, however, that they would rather support the continuation of socialist rule than sit down at the same table as my party leader Jimmie Åkesson. How's it going, Said Abdu? Is it with the Social Democrats that you are going to push through the liberal policy of entrepreneurs?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-332	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Fransson for the question. As I mentioned in my speech, there is a lot we want to do to facilitate the daily lives of entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, they are the ones who are building our prosperity, and they should be involved in the discussions on how to shape this policy. We will have to come back to the question of government formation when the voters have said their thing. I have a question for Mr Fransson: how do you see that the regulatory burden, which you highlighted in your speech as an essential part of the Swedish democrats' industrial policy, would be reduced by a withdrawal from the EU or by the closure of the current EU configuration?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-336	Mr President, I would like to It's a little late to tell voters who you intend to cooperate with. I know that many alliance parties are twisting and saying that they hope that the Alliance will have its own majority. But the hand on the heart, everyone knows it won't happen. Then there are two options. Either you form a government with the support of the Swedish Democrats, or you support a continued Social Democratic government. Then it is stopped; there are no more alternatives. I think the voters have a right to know this before. One should not wiggle and say that one hopes that the Alliance will have its own majority, because that outcome does not exist. Instead, one can be clear that from the 2018 elections, the Liberals are part of the red-green rule and not in the alliance rule.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-339	Mr President, I would like to What am I supposed to say about this line shift? As an old footballer, I never give up until the game's 90 minutes is over. I will fight for my ideas, for what I believe in and for my vision for Sweden until the game ends. To me giving up before that is incomprehensible and something I will not do. I will fight for my ideas until 9 September. That is what I intend to do, that is what my party will do and that is what my party chairman has said. He has given a first option on the government issue, and he has given a second option on the government issue. But what alternatives have the Swedish Democrats given to the government? Would you say that the Swedish Democrats are capable of government, Josef Fransson? It is highly doubtful. I think it is very undignified to disqualify voters from having our policy reviewed before 9 September.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-343	Mr President, I would like to Good welfare requires a competitive and differentiated business environment. The Christian Democrats are safeguarding a viable business sector that can create more jobs and growth, both socially, economically and environmentally. Sweden, we believe, needs more than ever a business environment that lays the foundations for more jobs, for people with different backgrounds. But the red - green government continues to give with one hand and bring the other. During the term of office, the government has tried to keep different groups in business in a good mood. Councils have been set up, collaborative programmes have been set up, coordinators have been appointed, talks have been held in key sectors of the industry and strategies have been put forward. People are involved in the development of their respective areas, and that is something that should be extremely good and good. But what then comes out in practical politics – from the government itself, not from those involved in the profession – is in many ways something completely different, which instead counteracts the good initiatives. I will give a number of examples. I have had the pleasure of listening to my colleagues, who have also given some examples. We have Saminvest, as my colleague in the Center Party has pointed out, a restructured state venture capital. I was one of those who was extremely positive about this, because I know the idea of it was great. We would come in earlier, in the seeding phase, as it were, also with state venture capital and in cooperation with private operators in the market. But it has gone so slowly that the well-known Skalman had gone faster than the speed at which this company operates. It cannot take so long to hire a CEO and staff to manage it, when in principle two existing venture capital companies were taken over: Fouriertransform and Inland Innovation. According to the half-yearly report, nothing has happened with the Group's funds. It would be very interesting to hear the Minister's point of view on this. There are more companies that want to operate in Sweden, but if you are to be able to take part in venture capital together with other capital, it is obviously an obstacle. Unconsidered proposals on employee options and changes to the Public Procurement Act, for example, have also been put forward. They say they want to encourage more start-ups in Sweden but at the same time reduce support for business advisors and developers of existing companies and especially for women's and immigrants' entrepreneurship. I think that talking about innovation and also holding the title of Minister for Innovation and Industry is binding. When the support to the Swedish Inventors Association is also withdrawn, so that you are forced to go bankrupt, both speech and title feel quite empty. The ironic thing about this is that several Swedish inventors just a few weeks ago won prizes at international competitions held in China. They would therefore stand and hold the banner high for Sweden and the possibility of being inventors in our country while they went there with the knowledge and knowledge that the support had just been withdrawn. The inventors in Sweden are already having a very tough time today. We can support artists in this country but not give support to inventors so that they can live reasonably decently during the time they are seeking patents, which can ultimately provide Swedish jobs. I find this incredibly strange. The government has selected industry as an important economic area for Sweden to develop, but the policy for new industrialisation is insufficient. For me, new industrialisation is not only to find new industries but also to develop the industries that we already have. We can take two concrete examples there too. We have the aerospace sector. I come from Trollhättan in West Sweden, and for us this is an extremely important industry. Several of us in the Committee on Economic Affairs have been involved in the space strategy to be presented. We have comments from Sweden and the Committee on Economic Affairs on the European Space Strategy, but we cannot make sure that we get a Swedish space strategy. When I had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Research a while ago, she said: No, there will be no strategy. What is it then — a thumb? No, it'll be a letter. For me, a letter is essentially distinct from a strategy, which involves both competence development and business development. My second example is an industry that has existed for generations: the mining and mineral industries. I know that the Minister spoke at the last industry meeting for Svemin, with the promise that an investigation will be set up to make it easier for companies to enter into a exploration process. Yes, it is promised, and I look forward to an answer to that. The industry believes and hopes for this, but we do not know when. It is very difficult to interpret when decisions are made by the government, but it is perhaps already done. As I said, I look forward to hearing it. Given the different views that the Green Party and the Social Democrats obviously have on these issues, I really look forward to the Minister for Economic Affairs fighting for this industry, which has provided Sweden with cutting-edge knowledge and jobs throughout the country, for generations. Mr President, I would like to As we know, there are no solutions to the matching problem, where basic education in a number of professions is a prerequisite for employment. If we are to use this industry, which has provided us with knowledge and jobs for generations, we need, for example, mountain engineers. It is not possible to use this industry for much longer unless we have a continued flow of trained staff. There is an education in Sweden, which has existed for a long time in Filipstad, Värmland. I have lived there myself before, and I know the importance it has not least for that area. Now the industry itself has had to take over the training because the government has not even been able to provide this single cutting-edge training with funds. It's all connected. This is something we should have learned – we are a few people who have been in Parliament for a few years. It's all connected. Sooner or later we get into one area or another and see how it has a context. It is clear that when you prepare various proposals in the Government Office, those of us sitting on the other side of the water, as it is said here, can reflect on how clever we might think it is on the other side. Proposals are being put forward which can then be withdrawn: higher tax rates for employees, worsening conditions for small entrepreneurs within the 3:12 rules, kilometre tax and so on. As if this were not enough, the government also opts out of prioritising the growing services sector by reducing both RUT and ROT. The private health and social care sector and education companies, all of which work in publicly funded areas, are being held back by wanting to impose profit restrictions. I'll bring this up again. I know I've done it before, but I think it has a relevance: We have everywhere in Sweden construction companies and others who bid via LOU to carry out assignments for state, municipalities and county councils. No control is carried out by these companies and how much profits they make at the expense of the public sector. But when it comes to care and education, you are very interested in tightening up as much as you can for entrepreneurs. If there had been some sense and balance on the whole, it would of course have been ensured that the framework for compensation had been different from the beginning so that it would have been impossible to withdraw public funds from the country. It goes hand in hand, once again. Profits in welfare – well, the biggest gain in this discussion has not, in any case, been made by the so-called co-operation government. I believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs has carefully kept out of the debate, probably knowing that there is no potential to pull away the carpet of privately owned health centres that have increased the availability of care interventions over 24 hours or for free schools with a pedagogy that caters for pupils' potential to learn in new ways. Taxes for both individuals and companies have either already been increased or announced to be introduced or increased during the term of office to date with – listen now – SEK 65.9 billion! The question is why the government has chosen some of these taxes, which have obviously led to fewer jobs and fewer who dare to continue running businesses. The government beats its chest for the lowest unemployment rate and believes that those who are furthest from the regular labour market will not need more support in the future because they have simply fallen further into the pile of applications with the few employers that can be applied for. It's a chimare. Where the government has now chosen which jobs will increase in numbers, we Christian Democrats instead welcome all the jobs that can be created in both new and existing companies. All hours worked shall be counted as an asset both for the individual and for the community. This is the best social measure for an individual but also for society: getting a job and being able to have a livelihood. It needs all companies, in all sizes and industries, and people who dare to drive and develop them and hire more.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-366	Mr President, I would like to In today's debate, we have the privilege of dealing with the Committee on Economic Affairs' report in this area of expenditure. It is rather nice to have a strong budget in the first speech in this House in the area in the back. Youth unemployment in Sweden is the lowest ever measured in an EU country. Since the 2014 elections, 200 000 more people have a job to go to in Sweden. Trade and exports are increasing. Now we are also seeing a trend break for rural areas. It is invested again, both in sparsely populated areas and in urban areas. Mr President, I would like to Swedish companies are growing. Productivity is increasing, and the desire for growth is strong. Active enterprise policy and the hard work that is done every day in Swedish companies have produced results. Although we agree in essence in this House that investment in this area is needed in order to have a strong and growing business sector, secure welfare and more jobs, our political priorities differ. I can say with some disappointment, but without much surprise, that all parties choose to make considerably less funding in this area in their proposals than the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Left Party do in their own. The government's priorities for next year are clear: we will jointly invest in new industrialisation – a real tongue twister – and to enable smart, climate-efficient solutions in industry. We will jointly invest in digitalisation and exposed barriers to entrepreneurship and growth throughout Sweden. We will do so jointly in order to make this available both in rural and urban areas. I would like to talk about some particularly important efforts today. In the tourism industry, which is close to my heart as a Gotlander, 11,000 new jobs have been created just last year. This is an industry where the desire for growth is greatest. If we look at who is currently working in the hotel and restaurant sector, we can see that 30% is under 25 years of age. Although it is not the subject of this very debate, Mr President, I would just like to point out that the tourism inquiry only last week left its final report. This is a very welcome step towards a comprehensive policy for the tourism industry, which Sweden has long lacked. And as of next year, we are taking more steps to shift the work further. Visit Sweden will receive SEK 90 million over the next three years in order to strengthen the image of Sweden as a tourist country in the world. We know that the industry is currently heavy and has many government contacts. The government is providing 2 million to develop the agreement that currently exists between the government and SKL for the restaurant industry, where digitalisation as a tool makes it easier to run companies in the industry. This will now be broadened to include the entire tourism industry. It will free up time and energy for businesses – time and energy that can instead be spent on growing, developing and creating more jobs. The tourism industry is an important engine for growth and development throughout the country, not least in sparsely populated areas. Above all, it is a way into work for young and newcomers. Mr President, I would like to The simplification work will benefit more companies. Small and medium-sized enterprises have an obvious place in the government's industrial policy, just as they have a central place in Swedish business. With digitalisation, what is currently complicated and a little messy can be made a little easier. We already use apps today to declare, report vab and pay bills. The same developments that have taken place for us as individuals must also take place for companies. The Swedish Companies Registration Office was therefore commissioned last year to enable digital handling of annual reports. And here's the good news: Next year it'll be a reality! This will mean a real difference for companies all over Sweden. But we also need to target resources for small businesses to have the right conditions for growth. Growth support, which has now been extended to include limited companies and partnerships, provides substantial support for SMEs to hire their first employees. Many of the really large companies we have in Sweden today, which employ many, have once been very small. That is why this support is absolutely right. We know that hiring your first employee is a big step. If we together in this House can make that threshold a little lower, then we shall do the same. From 1 January, the aid will grow into force, and I think it is a welcome innovation among Sweden's small businesses. Special efforts are being made on women's entrepreneurship, in particular to enable more women born abroad to become entrepreneurs and realise their dreams and hopes. It's welcome. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned at the outset that unemployment in Sweden has been pushed back. However, for many of those who have been unemployed for a long time or who, for other reasons, are far from the labour market, specific efforts from both the public and private sectors are needed to ensure that the road to work is as short as possible. Here, work integration social enterprises – also a tongue twister – are a welcome feature of our labour market. Today, these companies employ almost 10 000 people and 3 500 of them are employed. This is a sharp increase since 2010. What we must not forget, however, with regard to the social enterprises that are integrating into work, is that behind every figure in the statistics there is a human destiny and a hope of being able to contribute and of being part of a community. I think we should continue to support this work. Therefore, the government will provide an additional SEK 50 million to support social enterprises in their development. These companies have both the idea of being able to deliver a service or a product on competitive terms and the idea of being an active and inclusive societal player. I think that's important. Mr President, I would like to As a Gotlander, I have the privilege of representing a county with a growing labour market that is almost a reflection of Sweden as a whole. We have the heavy and important process industries, a creative tourism industry, a growing small business and a strong start-up. The contributions I receive from the business community on Gotland are the same as can be found in the reports of the industry organisations and the authorities. It is the supply of skills that is key for companies to grow and develop in the future. The transition is absolutely vital. This is why the government is now building the education system by 2021 with 93 000 more training places with a special focus on vocational training. In addition, the proposal to invest in regional vocational skills in particular and to make vocational programmes in upper secondary school more attractive. This, Mr President, is not the subject of today's debate or of the committee's report, but it is very important in the whole of which enterprise policy is included. The underinvestment of bourgeois parties in education, infrastructure, housing and welfare has created major growth barriers in Sweden. The same negative effect would continue to be the downsizing of the bourgeois parties. There are millions to be cut back in export promotion, business development and innovation. Sweden, which is a small and export-dependent country, must have a high level of ambition on these issues. We need to have a high level of ambition in order to be a front-runner in terms of the security of being an entrepreneur and we need investment in order to clear up growth barriers and for the important climate work. Mr President, I would like to Nutrition policy is one of our most important instruments for creating a Sweden that stays together. The regional policy profile of the government's industrial policy is important in order to create a country that holds together. It makes a difference when policy is shifted from unfunded billion-dollar tax cuts to joint investments in welfare, work and development. With that, Mr President, I would like to call for the committee's proposal in the report and, with it, for an effective, long-term and sustainable policy for more and growing companies throughout Sweden.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-387	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, David Lindvall, for your speech. That was your maiden speech here in the Industry Committee, and you did it with that honor, although I may not agree with all the details. I have a question for David Lindvall. At the beginning of your speech, you said that the government is now investing in rural areas. Then I get a little curious and would like to know: How?
i-Y4Gy5r7FtqdKkARFgJaPhC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question and for the welcome! The government is investing in the countryside now. It is partly about expanding the number of training places throughout the country, and partly about providing SEK 200 million to the Norrland Fund to enable venture capital for companies throughout the country. It is also about creating a favourable environment for industries to be able to grow also in rural areas and to expand welfare by billions to healthcare, care and education throughout Sweden. I think this is important investment in rural areas. In addition, we have to deal in this House, hopefully very soon, with a rural policy proposal based on the report presented by the Rural Committee. I think it's going to make a big difference. There I think Helena Lindahl and I are in complete agreement.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-391	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, David Lindvall, for your answer. I hear what David Lindvall says, and I think these are good bets. But there are also things that are negative for the countryside and which I am very worried about. Not least, it is about northern Sweden where the large distances are. One example is the mileage tax. Although it is now being re-examined at the Government Office, it is still there. It would be disastrous for companies to have a kilometre tax, not least in the north, because it will be extremely costly and more difficult for them to cope with international competition. Another example is the airline tax. Unless otherwise, it will have a negative impact on the tourism industry. We do not have high-speed trains in northern Sweden. It is said to be very far away that northern Sweden would get it – at least that's what it sounds like when you listen to the speeches in this House. With regard to the reduction of risk capital, I would like to say that although the Norrland Fund receives a contribution of 200 million, the government has chosen to take 2 000 million in venture capital from northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna. In Västerbotten's inland, my home country, there is a police car on everyday nights and evenings on an area almost as large as Denmark. It goes without saying that it is completely impossible for the police to be able to do a good job. Not least what has come up now with winter roads and snowstorms is that Trafikverket has sharper time controls with GPS in the plow cars. Many entrepreneurs are therefore not afraid to plow individual roads, which means that the roads are completely snowed. Entrepreneurs are afraid because it gives tens of thousands of dollars in penalty payments if you exceed the time limit. So there are many negative things for rural areas, and I wonder how the government sees this problem which is actually serious.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-396	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the questions! We do not have high-speed trains to Gotland either. I think Helena Lindahl will actually have to take the biggest discussion about the high-speed trains with her alliance colleagues, because there the resistance has also been quite large. With regard to the tax proposals that Helena Lindahl is discussing, I think it is important for aviation to bear its climate costs. I think all of us in this House think so, but I do not have proposals entirely from the alliance side on how to get the transition from a less climate-efficient flight to a more climate-efficient flight. I believe that the airline tax, which is a tax on the ticket of SEK 60, will not significantly affect the tourism industry, but the government provides compensation to airports in, among other places, Norrland and Gotland. Helena Lindahl talked about security, and now we have a massive increase in police and security spending in this budget of approximately 7 billion. Such an effort was lacking during the alliance years. The situation of underinvestments that have led to much of the rural problems that we have seen in the last decade with industries moving and training sites that are disappearing is now turning around. It is a social democratic-led government that decentralises the authorities, relocates government jobs and ensures that there is now actually a trend break for rural areas. My question, even if Helena Lindahl is not allowed to answer it, is: What is in the Center Party's rural policy proposals other than rhetoric? Not much, actually.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-401	I'll let Helena Lindahl answer that question.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-402	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot. I even believe that the Center Party has an even greater security effort in its budget than the Social Democrats have. It's an additional 1 billion. In addition, the government's regulation letter to the police states that you should have a local police officer present throughout the country. It's anything but what you have today. Then I do not think it will be anything more than the government's flossels when you talk about the whole country, because that is definitely not the case.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-403	Mr President, I would like to From a green perspective, an active enterprise policy is about creating the conditions for increased employment, about being at the forefront of the transition to an innovative and climate-smart society and about providing the conditions for individuals to fulfil their goals and dreams. When we have viable companies that dare to grow, jobs also grow. Every new job in a growing company is a profit for the individual, for the company and ultimately for Sweden. And when we have companies that are at the global forefront of sustainability, we not only contribute to reducing emissions, but we also make sure to be the first with the new technology and first to be able to export the sustainable. When people get the opportunity to start their own business and see it grow, they grow themselves. That is why glass roofs must be crushed and walls demolished, so that more people dare and manage to start and run their own businesses. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the slight trend towards positive trends that we have seen in recent years in terms of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere seems to have been broken. Again, we see emissions rising globally. Even the temperature beats new records almost every year. 2016 is the warmest year ever measured, and preliminary figures show that 2017 will probably be even warmer. A changed climate disturbs ecosystems and weather patterns. In California right now, perhaps the worst forest fire ever in the United States is going on. In Sweden, we are already seeing increased rainfall in some parts of the country and other unusual variations in the weather in other parts of the country. This and last year's extremely low groundwater levels provide a prediction of a future in which water scarcity and droughts can become increasingly common. It affects access to clean drinking water, and it affects sewage systems. I am saying this to emphasise the importance of taking environmental and climate considerations into account in all policy areas. We can't narrow it down and handle it separately. The emissions and impacts of Swedish companies must be combated in the same way as in any sector. I am therefore pleased and proud that the government is dealing with the climate issue in this way. When the business budget is drawn up, sustainability is an integral part of the work. Throughout, it describes the importance of working towards achieving Agenda 2030 and the global sustainability goals. It is a responsibility of every politician but of course also of every power in the business world. A number of concrete initiatives are about ecological sustainability. In this respect, a special effort is being made on national export and investment platforms for smart cities. If the climate is to be resolved, the role of cities is central, and Sweden is also at the forefront here. Let us export the sustainable solutions that exist! A major investment in electrification of the vehicle fleet and the development of biogas technology are further steps. Since transport is Sweden's biggest climate challenge, we need to put the gunpowder there. The electrification comes now with full power. Let us make it easier for it while taking advantage of the power of the circular economy by using biogas to the greatest extent possible. To meet the challenges of low groundwater levels, as I mentioned earlier, a particular effort is being made on prevention, for example to create more wetlands. This effort is being made across several committee areas, but some are within our area of expenditure. This is about the important work that Sweden's geological survey does in mapping groundwater resources. Mr President, I would like to The next area I want to focus on is social enterprise and all Swedes' opportunity to start and run businesses. Sometimes entrepreneurship is reduced to economics and profit alone. Of course, it's wider than that. For many, entrepreneurship is a way to realize dreams and goals in life. It can be about burning for an idea you have hatched, a special purpose or a general desire to make society or its environment better. Therefore, I am pleased that the government's budget places an extra focus on social enterprise and on entrepreneurship among groups that may otherwise have a little difficulty getting started. I would particularly like to highlight the efforts made on social entrepreneurship, but above all that the government is making special efforts on young entrepreneurship and on newly arrived women's entrepreneurship. Youth unemployment in Sweden is declining sharply, but remains relatively high. Increased entrepreneurship can be an important piece of the puzzle to continue reducing this unemployment. For newly arrived women, a company can be the difference between being integrated or segregated. It is central to the individual. But in a broader perspective it is also about increasing acceptance and attitudes about migration and integration. Mr President, I would like to I have chosen to highlight some concrete examples of initiatives that show that the government takes the societal challenges seriously. More examples are Industriklivet, the climate protection of Göta Kanal, the work with the collaboration programmes and so on. The budget is solid in that it benefits many but at the same time marks a direction for which challenges we want to solve – the climate, integration and competitive business. With this in mind, I would like to call for approval of the government's draft budget and rejection of the motions.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-419	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot in Sweden that works very well. We have a boom that is tough on and that gives many Swedish companies great opportunities. That is truly gratifying. But beyond that, Sweden faces a number of major challenges in areas such as integration, competitiveness, security and so on. I believe that the key to many of these challenges is to develop the conditions for small businesses and entrepreneurs in different ways. With regard to the whole integration challenge, for example, we know that the lion's share of new jobs comes from smaller companies that are growing. Mr President, I would like to The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has carried out an audit and asked a number of thousands of entrepreneurs how they feel that the conditions for starting and running companies have developed over the last three years with the S-MP government. Two out of three entrepreneurs feel that it has become more complicated. Only 1 out of 100 responds in the survey that it has become easier. I do not think it has become more complicated in substance at all times, i.e. that the government would have some bad intention or something like that. Sometimes it can be a feeling. On the one hand, economic activity and such things work a lot, but on the other hand, it is felt that different rulings and decisions lead in the wrong direction when it comes to certain tax issues, regulatory issues, procurement rules or in other ways. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Lorentz why he and the government have received such a strong understatement from the country's entrepreneurs.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-424	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Lars Helmered for the question. I agree with the description of the problem. I also understand that at least the feeling among entrepreneurs is that it has become more complicated. I believe that a great deal of the problem really lies in the implementation of EU legislation and rules. This is something that entrepreneurs themselves state as a challenge. The government has also acted in this area. We have, among other things, commissioned Statskontoret to review how it can simplify the implementation of EU legislation in different ways. In addition, I will mention the assignments that have been given to the Swedish Agency for Growth on digital solutions and on facilitating in different ways. Above all, however, the time limits of the authorities' proceedings must be reviewed. I see them as a major problem for entrepreneurs. I agree with the wording of the problem and am pleased that the government is taking this issue seriously.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-429	Mr President, I would like to If you're going to take a question like this seriously, it shouldn't be black or white. It would not be serious for me as an opposition representative to say that everything is in grey or black colours. It is not the widespread feeling, either of citizens or of individual entrepreneurs. You enjoy and see a business cycle that really pulls away. For example, the organisation Företagarnas barometer says that the supply of skills is the hottest and toughest ability to work with right now. But beyond that, there are a number of serious challenges, precisely in terms of complexity and rules. It's a clear understatement for the government. Nor is it serious to doubt the intention of the government's representatives. But it is problematic in some areas that the feeling among entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs is that it is moving in the wrong direction. A typical example is the discussion of welfare gains. It is perfectly legitimate to have views on it, as the Left Party, for example, has. But we need more innovation and entrepreneurship, which are important welfare activities. When you have a long-term need to secure the funding of welfare, it is problematic with such a social debate that is pushed by the Left Party and the government and where they push away that kind of entrepreneurship. Rather, the conclusion should be to consider how we can regulate, preferably across the block line, for example the conditions for permit granting, monitoring and control, as the bourgeoisie has said. But our conclusion is that there is a need for more talented people who are involved in running schools, health centres, housing and other businesses. We do not need a social debate that says how dangerous or bad it is. It probably also affects the rating from the entrepreneurs to the government. I wish the Green Party, with the entrepreneurial tradition it has had in the past, would be able to resist the kind of initiative that comes not least from the Left Party.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-435	Mr President, I would like to Again, we're going to keep two things apart. One is about regulatory problems as such, and it depends on how legislation is implemented and on a number of factors if companies perceive it as a problem. In particular, there is a need for a legislative review of how to reduce the regulatory burden. The second question is about profits in welfare and, above all, in the school sector. There the government has a different view from the opposition. Our view is that money that goes to welfare should stay there. That is, of course, the objective on which we are working, but it is a different issue from the rule issue. It's about two things. But when it comes to the regulatory issue, I really agree with the description of the problem, and I am willing to work to reduce the regulatory burden.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-438	Mr President, I would like to There are several things I could mention about what you said in your speech, Lorentz Tovatt. But what I'm most interested in is what you ended up with about social enterprises. It obviously means different things to different people. Right now, I'm most curious about the Green Party's and your own definition of social enterprises.
i-45rhVhsSpaC2NofRxmvth4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for the question! I must admit that I am not entirely sure whether there are any clear, correct definitions of social enterprise. But my view is that social enterprises are created because one sees social responsibility and wants to run companies with a social purpose. If the main objective is to solve a societal challenge or similar, profitability may not always be as good as in other companies. It may therefore be necessary for the public to go in and support in certain respects. That is my view of what social enterprises are about.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-442	Mr President, I would like to I could also have asked David Lindvall of the Social Democrats the same question. He also mentioned social enterprises. I am raising this issue because there is an official definition here. There are four criteria for a company to be an integrated social enterprise. This has been discussed a number of times by the Minister for Enterprise and Industry, and I would like to point out that we are in full agreement here. Of course, I am very pleased that an investment of 50 million is being made to the Swedish Agency for Growth. I asked the question because it is as important to me as to the Minister for Enterprise and others that we move with correct definitions. Work integration social enterprises differ from what we traditionally call social entrepreneurship when part of the surplus goes to charitable purposes or the like. The big, important difference that I would like to point out and which I hope you will take part in when you are out on study visits and other things is the point of creating work for those who participate in entrepreneurship and perhaps also are involved in creating the company. Unfortunately, many people miss the part of job integration when talking about social enterprises, which means that those who are serious, ASF, miss out on their business opportunities because you don't understand the difference. I do not wish to reprimand, but I would like to inform you that you, who are representatives of the government, have an important role here in bringing out the correct definition. It creates work.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-448	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pernilla Gunther, for the line shift! Thank you for the information. Now we did not hear all four criteria, but I understand that there are two different societal objectives, and one is specifically about job creation and integration. I don't know if that makes any difference to the discussion. But that is, of course, an important point that should be included in the debate. For my speech, I do not know whether it makes any difference. Creating jobs I see as an important social responsibility in the same way that I see, for example, the creation of climate innovations or helping vulnerable people. Having said that, social enterprise is important regardless of definitions.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-451	Mr President, I would like to Colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs, Officials and the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation! In this report, the committee deals with the government's budget proposal in the sections relating to Category 24 and 19 motion requests from the general period of exercise. However, even according to the Budget Act, the Government shall present in the Budget Bill the results obtained in the operations in relation to the objectives decided by the Riksdag. I was going to touch on those targets. No one else has done so, but they are also included in the report. The committee is unanimous in pointing out that a clear and clear statement of results contributes to a better understanding of how government funds are used and what results they get. The Government's performance report is an important basis for the Riksdag's budget preparation. A starting point for the parliamentary follow-up of the budget bill's performance report is that it should be possible for the committee to follow the link between goals, efforts made, results achieved and the government's draft budget. How this achievement has been accomplished, I let others judge. In an announcement – which is also included in the report and which nobody has touched on – from 18 November 2015, the Swedish Parliament endorsed what the Committee on Economic Affairs stated in its report on the management of SJ AB. In the announcement, the committee stresses that the Government should re-evaluate its priorities in relation to SJ AB and that the Government within the framework of SJ AB's decided economic objectives should act in a more responsible manner.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-456	In a further announcement from spring 2017, the Swedish Parliament endorsed what the Committee on Economic Affairs stated about processing times. The committee stated, among other things, that the government should take appropriate measures to ensure that all authorities that companies come into contact with set clear deadlines for their processing times. Regarding the notice of processing times, the committee notes that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to analyse and evaluate, among other things, the effects of measures such as maximum time limits, time limits and service guarantees for processing processes. The committee notes that the mission will be reported to the Government on 28 February 2018. Enough about announcements. Mr President, I would like to Expenditure area 24 Enterprise covers enterprise policy and foreign trade, exports and investment promotion. Enterprise policy includes efforts to create good framework conditions for business, business development, promotion of entrepreneurship, work to strengthen innovation, work to simplify business, pro-competitive work, tourism promotion, intellectual property and corporate law. In addition, research and development grants are included. I will not give any figures or nail hazard these nearly SEK 7.4 billion that are distributed, but I can note that good investments are being made in research and development that will make Swedish industry even more competitive. What puzzles me a little, of course, is how the bourgeois parties come to the same conclusion with SD: that the government, together with the Left Party, invests too much in business. My view and that of the Left is that if we are to maintain our competitiveness in terms of technological development and achieve the global goals of sustainable development and Agenda 2030, we must invest in innovation and research and development that includes both test beds and pilot facilities. I and the Left Party are convinced that Sweden would not have been so successful in our position as world leader in several areas of basic industry-related sectors if it had pursued a policy based on tax reductions, including those that most often went to the most wealthy. It becomes completely incomprehensible to me when it was then signalled that the governing government saw the Swedish base industry as almost unimportant or passé. Then I really wonder what the bourgeois government that ruled for eight years thought. Will interest be greater or less for investors if the focus is on tax reductions? Tax cuts not least undermine the common welfare sectors but also the possibilities of providing support and co-financing for the development of those elements that will be particularly important in the transformation of the world's industries into the sustainable and fossil-free. If we play our cards right now and make the right investments, in many areas we will be able to export new technologies that will be crucial for tomorrow's generations. Sweden as a small country with long successful experience in the basic industry has, and will have, the eyes and interest of investors. But then, as the governing government representative, we cannot give the signal that we do not believe in our industry ourselves. In the field of enterprise policy, I would like to flag the allocation 1:5 Business development, which is proposed to be increased by a total of approximately SEK 622 million. What is included in this money is, as the environmental party mentioned, support for the development of biofuels for aviation, investment in matching actors, smart industry at regional level, a national export and investment platform for smart cities, automation programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, and electrification of the vehicle fleet and biogas – a selection of things that I think are forward-looking and exciting. Mr President, I would like to I do not intend to take any more time, but I fully support the Committee on Economic Affairs' proposal in 2017/ 18:NU1 Area of expenditure 24 Business.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-465	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country that is very dependent on trade, imports and exports. We usually say that about half of our economy is connected to this. It is very important for many Swedish companies to produce goods and services and sell a little everywhere. This makes trade policy a very important Swedish interest, and it is an area, Mr President, in which we often agree widely politically. It is an area in which, for example, I can acknowledge Minister Damberg and his colleagues and the many times sensible approach to the view of trade, free trade, the WTO and so on. However, we see that one of the legs, namely the Left Party, on the three-legged stool that is the government base is falling away. It's a little shaky in that part. In the past, we have discussed what is sometimes called TTIP, the trade agreement between Europe and the United States. The leader of the Left Party, Mr Sjöstedt, has said that he wants to lower that agreement, because it is bad, while we know that much of Swedish foreign trade goes in that direction. At the same time, for example, TCO's chairman has said that handling this on the Swedish side has been one of the most open processes she has experienced in negotiating such trade agreements. The Swedish Parliament has recently received a so-called CETA agreement on its table, i.e. a trade agreement between Europe and Canada. Canada is one of the world's finest countries. It is very similar to ourselves: well developed with healthy values and so on. Birger Lahti's colleagues have been quite opposed to this type of trade agreement, and then I think, Mr President, that it boils down a little bit to an issue that can be formulated something like this: if you do not think that the USA or Canada is okay, is there any country and any context where you can be in favour of a trade agreement with all that it means for the Swedish business community?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-471	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! I could almost copy the answer from last year; I remember that the question was about the same but then about TTIP. Now it's CETA. The answer is that we have never been against trade agreements as such. It is not the crux of the matter, but the crux of the matter is the protection of investment in the trade agreement which gives large companies an advantage, a sour cream on the side, which allows them to sue states if they take decisions that would in any way lead in the future to companies gaining less profits than they anticipated. There are many examples, and I find it strange that these investment safeguards and mechanisms are needed in trade agreements concerning democratic countries such as Canada, Sweden and virtually all European countries. As I said in my speech: Sweden has been successful because we have had an export-related industry that has pumped the values out of this country, and it has built up our welfare. The opinion of the Left Party has never been that we should be against trade agreements and trade with other countries. But Lars Hjälmered must admit that it feels strange that big companies get a sour cream and can sue states that make a decision using democratic means that afterwards may not be exactly as the companies had planned. Doesn't Lars Hjälmered think it's strange that an independent investment mechanism should be needed that is not democratically managed when it comes to countries that have a good democratic construction of their state?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-475	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we sometimes talk about property protection, which is regulated both in the European Convention and in the form of government. Swedish law means that if there is anything where my property may be affected or at risk of being affected, I shall have a legal opportunity to have my case examined. It is a fundamental principle of law, and I think it should also be in trade agreements. If we are to induce others to come to Sweden and invest money, or the reverse, that Swedish companies invest elsewhere, there should also be legal rules for this. It is true that there has been a discussion on what was called ISDS in the trade agreement with the United States. There has also been a discussion about finding another such so-called mechanism. Nevertheless, it has been a fundamental principle that you have legal protection for the investments you make, which I think is a very important thing in this context. Mr President, I would like to If we look outside now, I would say that trade will become even more important in the future. My conclusion and ours is that we need the world more than it needs us, that is, it is particularly important for a country like Sweden to work with trade and free trade and to follow up and follow up regulations that are set up within, for example, the WTO. Protecting trade agreements is even more important to Swedish governments, whether red or blue. I come back to the fact that if we now have an agreement with Canada on the table, an agreement with a country which is still one of the most well-functioning if we look at labour law, animal welfare and other regulations, and the Left Party does not even come to the conclusion that it can be in favour of such an agreement, then I wonder: Is there any country and any context where one feels that one can be in favour of a trade agreement and not per look against?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-479	Mr President, I would like to I may not have answered the question, but I think we should be able to sign trade agreements with all countries that have democratic governance. Lars Helmered talks about Canada. I do not hesitate at all if it is a case of trying out something that was democratically decided in Canada. But we do not need to have any investment protection that is outside government in Canada and Sweden. We have functioning courts in both Canada and Sweden, which is why we do not need any investment protection where three judges who are nobody's choice should make decisions in cases that two democratically-governed countries can handle. I do not understand why it should be so complicated that we need several thousand pages, instead of removing barriers to trade and saying that these countries are governed by democratic government and can fix it there. Big business has a huge advantage, and I find that strange towards small countries. If we were to take a democratic decision to protect labour law or the working environment, for example, I would think it would be strange if it were to be overtested by investment protection. So we do not agree there. But trade is good, and I think we should be able to sign trade agreements with all democratic countries.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-484	Mr President, I would like to It is nice to have the opportunity to discuss and debate the state budget under Category 24 Enterprise here today. I have listened to the opposition parties. In a way, it is quite hopeful, because there is much that we agree on in this House. There is much that needs to be done to continue to strengthen Swedish competitiveness, our business community and job creation throughout Sweden. But it has also been interesting to listen a little after what has not been said in the speaker's chair today. It is a bit like a leadership text in Expressen this week, which warned that the bourgeoisie is now making so many promises about both increased expenditure and major tax cuts that the bill does not go together. We see a new bourgeois spring note emerging. The picture also goes again in the field of economic policy. From liberals all the way out to the extreme right, the expenditure area is actually being slaughtered. At the same time, we have a debate here in which the parties explain how the level of ambition needs to be raised in the area by area, ranging from small business to industry. It's kind of hard to make that equation go together. Let me start with industry. Let's back the tape back for a term of office. In January five years ago, Sweden's then Prime Minister stood in Davos and made a statement about Swedish industry. He said this: In Sweden we used to have people in the industry, but they are basically gone. This means: In Sweden we used to have people who worked in industry, but they are practically gone. They don't exist. Now we stand here for a term of office later. The industry creates more jobs than when Fredrik Reinfeldt declared it dead five years ago. Today there are over 1 million employees in industry and industrial service companies around the country. Together they create approximately 75 percent of Sweden's exports. Now exports are increasing. The first half of this year it went up by 12 per cent, and industrial investment in Sweden is at record levels. For the second year in a row, the industry employs more people in Sweden than abroad. More and more companies choose to move home production to Sweden. The confidence of industrial companies in the future is the highest in 20 years. What we are seeing right now is a window that opens for the new industrialization of Sweden. Then politics can't sit with its arms crossed. Then we cannot do as the previous government did during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, when a system of short-term work was rejected. This cost Sweden about 60 000 industrial jobs unnecessarily. It was a mistake for the bourgeois government to ignore Swedish industry. Industry remains a job engine in our country, but is also an innovation engine. Who will build our new electric cars? Who will electrify Sweden? Will we be able to do this without industry, without miners, without designers, without machine operators, without electricians, without engineers and without encoders? The answer is no. Sweden needs the industry's innovation power to meet the major societal challenges we face. That's why this government has put industry in focus. Last week we presented a second action plan to strengthen the industry, which wants to return home. There are 37 new measures, and I will mention some of them. A national test centre for electric vehicles shall be set up and co-financed by industry. A robot lift is carried out to promote the introduction of automation and robot solutions in small and medium-sized companies across the country. The industrial life is introduced for Swedish industry to be supported and move towards zero greenhouse gas emissions. The knowledge boost is being expanded because the supply of skills is today the biggest challenge for companies and the main obstacle to growth. The university of applied sciences alone will receive 12 800 new seats in the next few years. The professional programmes are also being upgraded. Almost half of the students disappeared when the previous government changed upper secondary school. Now we are increasing the status of professional programmes without weakening the professions. The Government works together with industry and academia within the framework of our collaborative programmes, which will be fully expanded by 2020 and means 500 million per year for innovation projects that are exchanged with equal amounts of money from industry. Some examples: In Gothenburg, electric buses are already running in real regular traffic with indoor stations and less noise. Västerås develops solutions for tomorrow's elderly care, which increase the freedom and self-determination of elderly and sick people through digitalisation and new technologies. In a number of other places around Sweden you can show how tall houses can be built from wood, how factories, mines and cities can be connected with 5G technology and all the opportunities it offers for the future. Sweden needs these test beds in real environments. It helps us tackle future challenges, but it also creates jobs and future export products. Industry is important for Sweden, but it is also our entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. We know that the majority of new jobs are created in growing SMEs. It is therefore positive that the last few years have been strong for Sweden's entrepreneurs and small businesses. October was a record month for the number of start-ups; a total of 6,049 start-ups were set up. This is the highest number since 2004. But it is also the case that Swedish companies grow significantly. Sweden's largest company survey The conditions and reality of the companies in 2017 show that seven out of ten companies want to grow. At the same time, we see challenges for small companies to take the next step, to make that necessary investment, to hire or step up in a new market. During the year, therefore, we have changed small business policy. Firstly, a growth subsidy has been introduced for more people to dare to do their first job. All self-employed workers who do their first job can receive a discount of up to SEK 63 000 in the first year. For the first time in Sweden, a staff option programme is being introduced to facilitate the recruitment of the skills needed in the start-up phase by small fast-growing companies. Secondly, we are improving the conditions for borrowing. Entrepreneurs throughout the country have witnessed difficulties in obtaining loans from commercial banks, especially in smaller towns and in sparsely populated areas. Therefore, Almi already received increased funding in 2015 and was able to develop new forms of loans, which meant that their new lending increased by as much as 38 per cent in 2016. During the year, I have started a banking dialogue with commercial banks, which resulted in two pilot projects where early banks take over Almis's loan customers so that Almi can grant new loans to more companies. This autumn's budget adds 200 million to the Norrland Fund to increase the availability of capital in the five Norrland counties. Thirdly, for a long time, small businesses have been used as banks by large companies. Now, together with the business community, I have led the largest companies to endorse the principles of a voluntary code which means 30 days as a rule. Fourthly, we will also ensure that entrepreneurs can focus on their business and not have to spend unnecessary time in contact with authorities – on managing permits, providing data or trying to understand how they should do right. That is why we have launched a simplification offensive. Last year, the Swedish Companies Registration Office was commissioned to introduce digital management of the annual report. It will finally be possible next year. The digital platform is active.se has received additional funding to develop its activities. We speed up and invest in digitization work in particularly regulatory industries. We started the restaurant business. We are now moving forward in the tourism industry with companies for hotels and events. In addition, we are working on shortening processing times with authorities and finding smarter ways to implement new laws and regulations. Fifthly, one of the main obstacles to becoming an entrepreneur is the issue of security, not least in the early days, when income is uncertain. What happens, for example, if you fall ill or are on parental leave? In order to create greater predictability, we improve insurance cover for start-ups. The extension period for sickness benefit is extended to 36 months and extended to include limited liability companies. But in this area we will have to take more steps. I think these are important issues, not least if we want more women to dare to start a business in Sweden. Finally, allow me to return to Davos in 2013. There at the summit the bourgeois Prime Minister also said this: I am not saying I want a larger portion of low inclusive jobs, cause it does not sound very nice. He's not saying he wants to see a bigger share of low-wage jobs, because that doesn't sound so nice. In this area, we have seen major changes in this term of office. Today, the bourgeois parties are saying straight out, without being ashamed of it, that they want to see lower wages in Sweden. They are even prepared to force it through their own legislation. If I understand it correctly, the Moderates intend to do so despite the fact that the parties have now agreed on their own solution. It is a model in which employers' costs are drastically reduced but where not one person receives a reduction in wages. In countries where there are other labour market models, wages easily become an election issue where parties compete for who wants to raise minimum wages the most. Swedish bourgeoisie is now about to go to history by going to elections with promises of not raised but reduced minimum wages in Sweden. Here's an important battle in next year's election campaign. Should we respect the Swedish model and continue to allow employers and employees to negotiate wages and conditions, or should we politicians start to legislate on such things? Should we safeguard stability in the Swedish labour market, or should you go on the basis of our economic prosperity? Few things have such a fundamental importance for our business environment to grow and create jobs as a stable labour market. Let us together defend the Swedish model and strive for more cooperation in Swedish politics. It is job policy that produces long-term real results.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-502	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country. There is a lot in Sweden that works very well. For example, we are drawn by an amazing boom. It's very funny not least in my hometown, where you can see how well things are going for the important automotive industry. If we raise our eyes and see some of the major challenges we face with integration, insecurity and competitiveness, I hope that there are areas where we can find each other across the block. I believe that trade policy continues to be one of those areas where it is important to stand up for important Swedish values about trade, free trade, Sweden's role within the EU and the WTO, to give some examples. Mr President, I would like to It is the same with regard to the devastating port problems in Gothenburg. There we have clearly extended a hand to the government and have a genuine and sincere desire to resolve them immediately. There I hope that we can settle with the government so that it can end before we go to elections next time, i.e. in practice there will be a legislative proposal. In addition to the fact that things are going very well, it has been evaluated. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has asked a number of thousands of entrepreneurs how they experience the conditions in Sweden. Two out of three have said that they feel that it is more complicated under Mikael Damberg's leadership and only one out of a hundred that it has become easier. To be honest, I do not believe that it was an evil intention or that it is individual rules that have made things more complicated in fact at all times, without perhaps more landing in different decisions and decisions. There is very good talk about entrepreneurship and small businesses. But there may be a feeling sometimes when it comes to procurement rules, tax conditions with RUT and ROT or similar things. There's also profit in value, I'd tip. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mikael Damberg: What do you think is the reason why you and the government have received such a severe understatement in the Swedish Enterprise Survey?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-508	Mr President, I would like to First we give the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise a very good rating, after that creates a lot of new jobs in Sweden even in the private sector. They are very optimistic about the future. I think Lars Helmered has a point. There is an expectation that life as an entrepreneur will be easier. What's driving it? I think it's the cell phones. Our ordinary lives have become so much easier with the mobile phone, but it hasn't really kept up with how to run a business, how to report and how to handle permit matters. Why does it not work the same way as when I swish or do my usual banking? In the international rankings over digitalisation, for example, Sweden is still very high on many of the rankings. In one area we have really lost about the last ten years. It's the public sector and digitalization. Our authorities and organizations haven't followed. We do not offer companies and entrepreneurs the best support by making simpler rules. I believe very much in the need to pursue a simplification offensive. I welcome the initiative of the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have indicated that we are taking a number of initiatives to push the issues forward. These are important issues for us to follow and continue to push. I think more can be done. I would like to return to Category 24 a little bit and ask the Moderates a question. When I read the proposals, I get an impression just as far as 1:5 Business development is concerned. There it feels like you want to remove all new investments for next year. You do not want to grant any increase, but you remain on last year's initiative. What happens to the electromobility laboratory, which will probably have its headquarters in Gothenburg? What happens to Norrlandsfonden's SEK 200 million for lending to companies in the five Norrlandslänen? It is also important to have the courage to discuss the concrete effects of the draft budgets. I hope the Moderates can be clear about the impact of their savings. Somewhere you have to save if you are going to cut so much in the area of expenditure.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-515	Mr President, I would like to A consistent trend for Mikael Damberg and his colleagues has been to significantly increase taxes on both companies and work in recent years. The motto for an individual entrepreneur has been that Mikael Damberg gave about a dime and took a fifty piece back. That's where the net in large pieces has been. Mr President, I would like to It still comes back to that much in Sweden works very well. We've got a business cycle that's really pulling. It benefits companies and helps both nationally and in trade externally. But beyond that we have a number of slightly bigger challenges for Sweden. We are thinking a lot about the major challenges of integration, insecurity and competitiveness. There are a number of areas where I hope we can find each other. I mentioned, for example, the important trade policy, that we have an iron axis and are continuing to drive it. Secondly, I hope that Mikael Damberg will be able to give some kind of answer. It concerns the devastating port problems. It is a typical example of competitiveness. We can look at the port of Gothenburg in a practical way when, for example, containers are going into and out of the harbour. Only the other week, the container company ACL informed that after 50 years it will stop running the direct line between Gothenburg and the American east coast. There are several reasons. One important reason is the current port problems. Many companies have testified to this – i.e. both Volvo companies, Akzo Nobel, Löfberg Lila and many others. In the rather tough environment we see before us, we must act in different ways through parts of the policy areas of education, research, taxes and other parts vigorously if we are serious about the welfare, role and situation that Sweden has. Then such a thing as port problems will become a matter of political will. When we see that it is going on and hitting so hard on competitiveness and business, I mean that we cannot sit still. The question then is: does the government have the political will to resolve the problems immediately?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-522	Mr President, I would like to We have already set up an investigation into the serious situation in the port of Gothenburg. We see that this is a serious situation. Then we have to do the right thing legally. I very much hope that we can agree widely in this House on new, modernised rules that allow us to defend the Swedish model of conflict rules but not to abuse the rules we have on the Swedish labour market. The assignment will be presented by May next year. I hope, if they are finished earlier, that they will come earlier to the government and parties in Parliament with a proposal in that part. We'll be happy to cooperate there. We are also happy to cooperate on trade policy, competitiveness and integration issues. I hope that in future debates the Moderates will also mention the climate challenge as a major challenge in our time. I really believe that it will determine the competitiveness of Swedish industry in the longer term if we make it. There are major investments in the budget to help Swedish industry to be at the forefront in the development towards climate-restricted production. Again I get a little nervous that Lars Hjälmered does not answer the question with a word: What happens when you remove 60 percent of the grant of 1:5, the whole increase for this year? I sit with not least the Volvo companies, and they say: We want to invest in an electromobility laboratory. This is our prerequisite for switching to electric vehicles in the future. They want us from the state to be involved in this innovation effort together. It is a matter of the state investing hundreds of millions, and they have to raise the same amount. It's in the near future. I would like to come to the companies and say: I have now discussed it in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. There is a large set-up behind an electromobility laboratory that ensures the long-term sustainability of the automotive industry in Sweden. I hope that the Moderates may not in this debate, but later can make it clear that this initiative will be long-term and real.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-527	Mr President, I would like to I put a few questions to the Government in my speech. I did not really feel that I received an answer in your speech, Mikael Damberg, so I am going to develop the questions and ask them again. I believe that we have a common interest in the further development of the industry in Sweden. I myself grew up in a place of use, and it is clear that I understand the significance for the whole country of a viable industry. New industrialisation can involve modern, high-tech companies in the somewhat more modern space research, where we have a role to play within Europe and the rest of the world. Now we see that a planned strategy will only be a letter with a little unclear content. However, the Minister for Economic Affairs must be able to tell us how important this industry is to Sweden: should we be satisfied that there was only one thumbnote here, or should we actually try to establish a strategy, so that these companies know their conditions in the near future? I will return later with my questions about the mining and mineral industry.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-530	Mr President, I would like to The industrial strategy is broad. It takes advantage of the power that exists throughout the Swedish industry, which accounts for a very large part of our exports and many jobs throughout the country. We have chosen not to focus industry-specifically and specifically, even if we meet industries and discuss what we can do together. When it comes specifically to the space industry, this government has set up an investigation to look at whether, for example, small satellites are not a business area that can have a very significant impact on Sweden in the long term. We have taken the initiative to push forward the issue of the future of the space industry. The government has therefore taken initiatives in this area. I believe that most people outside this House do not see much difference between strategies, letters and proposals. What matters is what you do and whether you take it seriously or not. Then it gets a little weird. We are talking about innovation in Swedish industry. The Christian Democrats want to radically reduce the funding for Vinnova. Vinnova is the authority that works with innovation initiatives. Virtually every initiative from Vinnova is an initiative where industry and industry have financed half of it. This allows Swedish industry to stay a little ahead and be a little faster on the ball, so that we can create future export products. When I read the Christian Democrats' budget motion, I do not understand the reasons why innovation policy should suffer so much. We may also have some time left to discuss why you should remove the Vax-support – the support that is given to one-man entrepreneurs around Sweden who hire their first person. Then you can get a tax discount of 63 000 SEK. Is it not a targeted tax reduction that really has an impact on employment? I understand that there are other parties, not least the Center Party, which are very close to this, have their own proposals and even want to go a little further than the government in this area. There should be a common understanding of targeted actions for companies that want to grow.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-535	Mr President, I would like to To be able to answer the Minister's questions, I will start with this with Vinnova. It is no wonder that we believe that it is possible to allocate aid to companies and entrepreneurs in a completely different way from just through Vinnova, in which the government puts great confidence? The Minister mentions almost only large companies that benefit from Vinnova's investments. Volvo is an example. I think Volvo is so viable that you could finance the lab that was mentioned in a previous post. It is not primarily these companies that we should support with public money. In that case, it should be done in cooperation with small and medium-sized enterprises in a much clearer way. When it comes to the "Growth Support", the idea was originally that people with individual firms could hire a person. The very definition of an individual firm is that you are an individual person who chooses to run a business. Then hiring someone is incredibly administratively complicated. Believe me, I know. I have had one-man entrepreneurs in the family and can really tell you that this is not a success factor. Although the whole idea has been extended later, it is not very well thought out from the beginning. But I also wanted to have time to ask my question about our traditional mining and mineral industry, to which I am afraid I will not get an answer again this time. Will the minister's report now be published at Svemin's autumn meeting, on simplifications in exploration, so that this industry can continue to grow a few more generations in Sweden?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-539	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by answering the question. Environmental permits today take a long time to produce, and these are very uncertain processes. I have made it very clear that I do not want to reduce environmental requirements. The Minister for the Environment does not want to do that either. But we want to find a more predictable regime in dealing with environmental permits, because it costs investments not to do so well. We will come back with an investigation into this to look at what can be done. This was already part of the first action plan for smart industry, of which we will now deliver the final parts. We work long-term with these issues, which are important for the mining industry and also for other industries where environmental permits are important for investments and future jobs. I get nervous when I hear that the Christian Democrats think we should not work with the Swedish automotive industry on electrification. This is the basis for the Swedish export industry. The whole automotive sector is changing. Sweden must be at the forefront. Industry shows clear signs of willingness to cooperate with us on these issues. The government will move on with this. But test environments are a unique opportunity to allow research resources and innovation environments also to reach small businesses. Unless these test laboratories, which can also be used by small businesses, are available, they will not be able to participate in the innovation processes. Working with open test environments is one way to involve small and medium-sized enterprises in innovation processes. The crop subsidy also applies to limited companies today. We have broadened the reform so that all one-man entrepreneurs can receive tax rebates when they hire their first employee. I had hoped that the Swedish Parliament would say: Jippi, this is what we are closing up about! It can have a big job effect to target tax cuts to those companies that choose to grow to the number of employees.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-545	Mr President, I would like to More than 100 years ago, the first woman entered the Swedish parliament. Today we see that we are almost 50%, luckily enough. In the 19th century, it was also not uncommon for women to work in the private sector, in companies such as laundries or ysteries. I myself worked on a project called Ostriket in Västerbotten. It is based on the hundreds of dairies that were around the county, including one in Mångbyn, where Västerbottensosten was created. Now you know it. In the 1960s and 1970s, very many women started working, which made Sweden one of the world's most equal countries in terms of the labour market. But the irony is that what has contributed in a way to the fact that we are one of the world's most equal countries has also hampered women's entrepreneurship because many women work in health and social care, where it has not been allowed to start and run businesses on the same basis as the public sector until 2009, when LOV arrived. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is to be seen in the light of the fact that only one in four entrepreneurs is a woman. Women make up about 25%. It's a pretty bad rating for an equal country like Sweden. Then I would like to know: How does the Minister for Economic Affairs work to increase the proportion of women who are and are going to become entrepreneurs? It may well deal specifically with what is in the minister's area.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-549	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. That is an important issue. We have come a long way in the work on gender equality. Not only is it fortunate, but there has been quite a lot of hard political work behind it. It is not least about women's struggle for greater equality in terms of representation here but also about how our welfare system has been built up. I would like to say on behalf of the Minutes that I do not believe that women would have more opportunities to be either an entrepreneur or a career if childcare and care for the elderly had not existed and worked well in Sweden. I believe that we have implemented many welfare reforms that have meant a great deal to women's liberation. But we have more to do. Not least, it is about entrepreneurship. I can give examples of what I also mentioned in my speech. I believe that what we are doing now to create security for entrepreneurs plays a huge role. We are expanding to allow start-ups to calculate SGI on a corresponding job for 36 months. There's a huge difference between what it's been like in the past. It does not have to be as risky, so to speak, to start a business and give up permanent employment. Another thing is that we work a lot with Almi and lending. As far as funding is concerned, it has been shown that men are often allowed to borrow more money than women. State actors play a huge role. We are the only ones who actually follow up on women and men in the loan market. Almi has a special assignment to work with under-represented groups – unfortunately it is women and people who have come to Sweden. We are making targeted efforts in the budget about newly arrived women's entrepreneurship – I'm just saying that to mention a very close example. But I think we need to take a broader approach to security and entrepreneurship issues. I think these are issues on which we could agree in Parliament. When more and more people choose to be entrepreneurs, or in some parts of their lives are entrepreneurs, security systems must work. This is even more important for women than for men because, unfortunately, responsibility in families is so badly distributed today.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-553	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the issue of the security of entrepreneurship. I think it's pretty crucial. I can cite an example that I became aware of not so long ago. If you have an individual firm, you can base the parental allowance on the highest salary you have had two years back. If you start a limited company, however, you start over from zero, which is really crazy, to be honest. Today it is almost the case that entrepreneurs belong to a B-team in terms of security systems compared to employees. We really need to look at this. When it comes to migrant women's entrepreneurship, I think that is a good thing. I have seen in the Social Democrats' budget that you are investing in it. But I would also like to see the Almi initiative re-launched in relation to migrant women's entrepreneurship, because it was incredibly successful. On Almi they raise it themselves to the skies, and I think they have done a lot of good in that area. The same is true of the power of the Board to bring women into boards and management positions. Almi also did a very good job there. I see Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg as a pragmatic social democrat. I hope that Mikael Damberg will prevent the ceiling for profits in welfare, because the proposal now before us is about operational capital. This only benefits the larger companies. It certainly does not benefit small businesses, and it is often women who own and run these companies.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-556	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the area where I believe there is room for more cooperation between the Center Party and the Government, but also widely in the Riksdag. It is a question of women and entrepreneurship. There is a great interest from many parties in doing more. I think there is a homework to do for all parties, because this is a situation that has existed for a very long time. I'm getting a little perplexed now. I think what Helena Lindahl is talking about the 24-month rule and individual entrepreneurship is exactly what we are now adjusting. We're going to 36 months instead of 24. And we're going to a limited company. Very few people know about this change. I'm getting a little frustrated. If we do not even know fully about it in this House, I wonder: how will women who are thinking of setting up a business know that there is greater security in starting a business from next year? I think it is important to be offensive and dare to talk about the improvements that are being made to make that attitude change work. There were several exchanges of views on regional policy in the past. I also believe that this is an area where there is scope to find more cooperation. The Norrland Fund was mentioned. I think it is extremely important for the development of entrepreneurship throughout Sweden. I mentioned the "Growth Support" myself. You have a version of it. But we are very close when it comes to supporting those small entrepreneurs who take the step and start hiring. It is also about regional policy in the form of the Norrbotnia Line and other efforts that I believe are important both for the climate and for regional development in the country. I hope that the Center Party realises that there are some parties that take these issues very seriously and will continue to do so. Unfortunately, I do not read in the alternative budget motions from your alliance colleagues that those priorities are fixed in the same way as for the Center Party, Helena Lindahl. But there is room here for more cooperation in the future.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-560	Mr President, I would like to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation! We attended the same seminar a while ago at Svemin's autumn meeting. You gave a speech on faster permit processes for the mining industry. I just want to ask, what's the point? There's no doubt where I stand. What happens in my municipality when it comes to a mine is very exciting. I think that Sweden has a good view of the state of the environment. But I agree that it sometimes inhibits when it takes tens of years and someone has invested 70 million and it then goes down. What is the idea of what you presented at the seminary?
i-5HDWf41uv4exL2kctXvtix	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Birger Lahti. This was already described by the government in the first Action Plan, Smart Industry. We identified that an actual brake on increased sustainability work in Sweden is not our environmental requirements, but the fact that environmental permit processes sometimes take a very long time and are very unclear. Operators cannot then know how the processes are to be carried out. It creates uncertainty. New investments are often better than old investments – we have seen that when we have introduced new technologies and so on. This slows down. Mining is a special case. There are enormous permits processes, because there are tough environmental requirements to apply to sustainable mining operations. What we already agreed there was that we should review. How long does the process of environmental permits take in different places? We would also be linking a reference group to this in order to be able to follow the work. It's not about working with lower demands, it's about more efficient processes and more predictable processes. Both environmental legislation and the business community benefit from better conditions and from knowing which rules apply.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-564	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. That's about what I wanted to know. I am really trying to be a spokesperson for sustainable mining in the north, and I do not want to end up in the situation that it sounds like trying to loosen this up. I don't want to hear that. But this feels good. What would also be good to hear at some point is that you are weighing other interests into the start-up phase. You could say: With 90% certainty, you will not get a concession. It would, as it were, benefit the debate. I think we have good legislation. We have better mines than they have in the rest of the world. That is not to say that I would say yes to every mine. At some point I could say, yes, perhaps at some point, but not now. Perhaps it would be beneficial for both parties to be able to say at the start: No, I do not think you will be granted permission for this mine. It is today too sensitive to other industries.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-567	Mr President, I would like to I think Birger Lahti is onto something. When I talk to the business community in this sector, they say that it is almost better to get a message a little sooner than it takes so long. Even if it's a no, it's better than living so long in uncertainty. There is a problem with the extent of time and uncertainty in the process, which we should deal with. I think the mining industry is exciting – Birger Lahti is involved in the issue – because there we have the next little bigger discussion about the green transition. How are we supposed to handle it? For example, batteries are a prerequisite for the green changeover. What minerals and metals are needed for their development? Today there is a sustainability problem. Many of the minerals and metals are produced in countries far from Sweden where sustainability is very poor. It is important for Europe to demand that there are sustainability dimensions for the minerals and metals that are taken in from outside. In Europe, we ourselves must also consider whether we have the capacity. Do we have good mines that could provide us with some of the metals that are critical to innovation in the future? I think there will be an increased interest in looking at this, and this applies not only to new mines but also to recycling materials. Old mining areas have mentioned a lot of materials that could be used. It is also about the whole recycling system. Sweden has historically been good at expanding recycling systems so that we take advantage of the metals and minerals that may already exist in products since before.
i-V2emgvigXR1Hv69Npa2Rc3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the speech, Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg! I would like to refer to the part of the speech that dealt with the welfare challenges. We agree that we have major welfare challenges ahead of us in both Sweden and Europe. We need more actors who are involved in improving and developing welfare. In the article you referred to, Mikael Damberg, it was nevertheless quite clear that one of the representatives you said did not flag for a possible reduction was precisely my party chairman Jan Björklund. He said that we might not be able to make a tax cut on the total. I think it is important to mention that it was also mentioned in the article. I would like to say something about what was said about a statement by the former Prime Minister. Perhaps it could arouse a bell of concern about what current ministers are saying. For example, the Minister of Civil Affairs has said that profit is theft from the people, and the Prime Minister has – hear and astound – said that companies sell children on the stock exchange. I'm very worried when I hear things like these. It is the current Prime Minister who has said this. If you think that companies sell children on the stock exchange, I wonder what you think trafficking is. I just wanted to lift this up. Finally, I would like to say something about the report. The Minister for Industry said that we in the Alliance are investing too little in this area of expenditure. I would like to use the comparison made by my colleague, Lars Helmered. Companies are forced to pay in 50 SEK. Then you give them 1 crown back, but this crown they can't be sure they'll get back, because it's directed. I am not sure that the government knows better what is best for companies than the companies themselves.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-575	Mr President, I would like to Let me say something about the whole discussion about what various actors have said about welfare. When I was an educational political spokesperson before, I often debated with Jan Björklund. I noticed how he said that in the Swedish political system we have been naive in our view of both freedom of choice and the issue of profit in connection with some companies doing some strange things. I do not know if Jan Björklund stands by this, but then he wanted to stop venture capital companies from acting in the school market. It is therefore not only a few parties that have been critical of the scandals and problems that have existed because some companies have not actually behaved quite seriously. Too much of our common tax money has not gone to what it is for. This applies not least now that we have had a period of falling school results. Hopefully, however, we are seeing a slight turn now with large investments in the education system. It is important that the huge billion-dollar investments in the school system that are available in both our budget and the Liberals' budget benefit both teachers and students. There must be real improvements in the quality of the business. We have a joint work to do there. The government will come back with how to guarantee that more of the tax money goes to what they are supposed to. One can of course say that we have made some tax adjustments, not least as regards employers' contributions for young people. The bourgeois argued strongly against it and said it would lead to higher youth unemployment. Instead, we have record low youth unemployment. We have a very good development in the labour market. In the budget we are now discussing, we have investments in the Norrland Fund and the five Norrlandslänen in order for companies to grow. We are investing in electromobility labs for the automotive industry to switch. These are important bets. Somewhere you have to take responsibility. If you delete these budget lines, you also have to stand for it and be clear why you are doing it.
i-BHYNknAQ89ECwe5R6WFuzc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg! We agree that there are welfare challenges that need to be addressed. I believe there is a need for several actors to develop and streamline welfare. Then we can always debate and discuss how this is to be done. I believe that the description expressed by my party chairman and also most in this House is that we need more control and control of the welfare sector. I do not think, however, that introducing a profit ban is the right way forward. Our view of investments in this area of expenditure is that the people, companies and individuals who generate wealth and income themselves know better what is best for them. We political representatives should not decide which initiatives should be prioritised and which should not be prioritised. I think parents can decide for themselves which school the children should attend. I think my parents can decide for themselves which health centre and which nursing home they should choose. I also think that those who need the LSS themselves should be allowed to decide the performers. I wonder why politicians want to decide this. Why don't you let people decide for themselves and give them that freedom? That's what I want to do. I want to give people the freedom to make choices and make their own decisions.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-586	Mr President, I would like to This is an exciting ideological discussion. If you are a social liberal, you must also be able to see that there are challenges in society that the market does not solve on its own. One such challenge may be that companies and entrepreneurs in northern Sweden do not have the same conditions to obtain capital for the business to grow and to be able to hire more. We go in with support to the Norrland Fund to help with this from the government. When the Norrland Fund is involved as an actor, it is easier to get the private commercial banks involved and change up the business. When we speak of regional policy, the state may have an interest in providing similar conditions for job creation throughout the country. Another example is the electromobility lab. Here we have a social interest in speeding up the transformation of the entire automotive sector, because we want to meet the climate targets. One third of CO2 emissions come from the transport sector. If we in Sweden are to meet our own goals, we need to change the automotive sector. By cooperating in this way with the automotive industry, we are strengthening its competitiveness. Industry can then be one step ahead and sell next generation trucks, buses or passenger cars on the world market. It will also be a way of future-proofing industrial jobs, which are hugely important to our country. We have seen in Trollhättan, not least, how important the automotive sector is still in that part of the country. One should be a little careful when one says that politicians should not interfere in this. The automotive sector has come to us and said: can we do this together? This is a way for them to future-proof jobs in their industry. In conclusion, I think that you in the Liberals deserve respect. You are almost the only bourgeois party that does not cut back on the local government sector. You are very clear that we must continue to invest in the education sector. These are areas that we too are passionate about. We must do this, and in the long term this is perhaps the most important investment we can make for competitiveness and innovation in Sweden.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-591	Mr President, I would like to I want to start at a different end than I had in mind. I would like to ask a question to the next Social Democrat when the Minister for Economic Affairs leaves. There are health centres throughout the country, but in some places there are no municipal centres. In Jämtland there is a small town where the region has allowed a private performer to establish himself. You haven't had the chance to have your own. In order to have this, there must be a large airbag, i.e. the health centre must have money left in the account. If something happens, there should be a security, a buffer. With a proposal for a profit ban, the health centre will be closed down, and then the place will be without a health centre. Mr President, I would like to I was going to tell you how Sweden will be kept together by means of regional growth, which this report is about. It is essentially about EU funds to develop regions, and that cities and countries can go hand in hand and be places where people can live and operate based on their own unique conditions. The report also addresses other policy areas in the budget. Our cities depend on the countryside for their vitality. Our agriculture, food production and forestry are all important cornerstones that contribute to the success of cities as well as opportunities to live in and develop rural areas. The government is wasting our country's prosperity, the potential of the labour market and common opportunities. Our Sweden has much more to give, we believe. The policy of the Red-Green Government makes it harder to live and operate in many parts of Sweden. This year, the government has implemented tax increases of SEK 40 billion that hit jobs and growth. Increased petrol taxes, new air taxes and proposals on truck taxes are just a few taxes that affect rural areas. The signal value of changes to the 3:12 rules for entrepreneurs during the year has caused people to change course. When the recession comes, it will be felt. Around our elongated country there is still a great inherent potential. In order for it to be exploited in all parts, more opportunities need to be opened up to live and work. How government agencies meet business and projects between local, regional and civil society is important for local conditions and for achieving good long-term viability. I therefore share the government's view that further steps should be taken to adapt the regulatory framework so that requirements and implementation costs are set in relation to the size of the EU funds allocated to each country. Making simplifications at national level must go from words to action. I would like to emphasise that. Today, there are long lead times until projects can become a reality. Applications take time, and different levels within the Swedish Board of Agriculture should check each other with bureaucratic procedures. It has negative consequences, not least for those projects across the country that want to come into being. The works are out of pace with local and regional reality. It has to change. At the same time, we hear horror stories about hauliers who need a new driving licence and do not get a renewal from the Swedish Transport Agency. Reason for the answer: You have too long an address. You'll have to change your address. Authorities, works and boards must have leadership and an organisation that meets the reality in which we operate. The authorities of our country need to be thoroughly relegated. The Swedish National Audit Office has submitted an audit report with a different opinion for 2016 for the Annual Report of the Swedish Growth Agency. It's startling. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the annual report contains extensive errors that affect the entire financial statement and cause consequential errors in the financial data in the profit and loss report. The issue has since continued to be discussed into 2017. The Swedish Agency for Growth provides money for projects and work in the regions, and it must be stressed that this work should fully know what it has, be able to show what the money is spent on and how the projects succeed. Working on a transparency system with clear management of funds and a new monitoring system is taking time. Clear wordings are now required in regulatory letters so that things are in order. Without follow-up, state funds go out without seeing how they are used or whether they work. That's not how it's supposed to be. There must be a strong link between the efforts made and how the objectives are achieved. The committee has noted that more clarity is needed and that the report should reflect the results achieved rather than efforts and world changes. It concerns the government's own accounts. Within regional growth, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Public Employment Service are regarded as important actors. The Social Insurance Agency is the basis of the social security network for all citizens, and it is important that the Agency is well functioning at all stages and that citizens feel confident that payments and benefits come when they are due. The employment agency has not been able to deliver, this despite the fact that there are industries with shortage professions. The restaurant business is ready while the chefs never come from Arbetsförmedlingen. It is a waste of labour, jobs and growth in companies. Maybe some even close. There is also a potential for successful integration that has been totally missed. This also applies to the green industries, which the Moderates see as a growth engine. Professionalism from the home country provides a match in Sweden in the shortage professions. For example, I got a visit to Kinnarps in Falköping this summer to find out that they recruit seamstresses from Småland to their textile department in the furniture production. There will be benefits for everyone and successful integration. Lack of labour in the manufacturing industry in Sweden is solved with professional skills from other countries. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs good mobile and digital communications with good geographical coverage that have sufficient capacity when more and more people want to use mobile and digital technology. Sometimes long distances to basic services can be bridged by digital solutions, and connectivity opportunities are becoming increasingly important in the digital world. New technology with drones opens up opportunities for more modern and improved service in rural areas. For example, it concerns postal and parcel delivery. As early as 2015, the post office in Finland started trying to distribute packages of drones. Digitalisation creates opportunities for both urban and rural areas. Drones in agriculture and forestry affect efficiency and quality and optimise resources. The County Administrative Board, or its future counterpart, can effectively work against the industries using the technology where images can be transferred directly from the office out to those who need the answers in order to develop their operations. Today there are lead times, but there is more to do. We see a great potential when we can make good use of land with high precision with great success. In a time of globalisation and increased international competition, and when Sweden's big companies are largely either liquidated, reduced or sold to foreign interests or move their production abroad, most new jobs are created by the small businesses that account for four out of five jobs in Sweden. Sweden needs a business policy that encourages and facilitates companies and opportunities for entrepreneurship. In the public sector, women have started and operated in the professions they have been trained for or where women have seen that it is possible to do things in other ways that benefit people in need of help and support. This is a development that benefits those for whom the operations are – and therefore everyone – through new solutions and methods. That's what we call innovation. But with the help of ideological blinders, the government wants to close instead of seeing local and regional business ideas with good content. These companies are the reason why the proportion of women in entrepreneurship is currently 10% higher than in 2006. We can thank the Alliance Government for that. Mr President, I would like to A functioning infrastructure is central to rural and regional growth so that companies can deliver goods to customers and suppliers. The announced truck tax is hitting Sweden's companies hard. It is a tax from a distance, not emissions, but it is the emissions from transport that affect the environment and climate, not distances. Transport by truck is often a prerequisite for companies in general and industry in particular to be able to operate and develop throughout Sweden. It is not only passengers who are affected by a flight tax, but it also risks leading to fewer jobs. The International Air Transport Association, IATA, has estimated that the introduction of a flight tax in Sweden threatens at least 10 000 jobs in the aviation industry, airports and in the hotel and restaurant industry. Last week the investigation A country came to visit – A comprehensive policy for sustainable tourism and growing tourism. If we are serious about the need for tourism and tourism in Sweden, we do not need more taxes on travel, but instead that the development of technology for a sustainable flight continues. Sweden is a country on the outskirts of northern Europe, and getting here requires travel. Sustainable tourism therefore means developing, not dismantling. Another mode of transport is shipping on water. The port of Gothenburg is Sweden's gateway to the world and crucial for Swedish companies and the Swedish economy. The port is Scandinavia's largest and handles six out of ten containers that import and export to or from Sweden. However, since April 2016, there has been a long-standing conflict between the employer APM Terminals and the Transport Workers' Association and the Port Workers' Association. The long-term conflict paralyses the work of the port and means that several shipping companies have chosen to stop direct transport to Gothenburg from the USA and Asia. The last time the shipping company ACL, Atlantic Container Line, announced that from January 15 next year it will stop driving straight from the USA to Gothenburg. Instead, it will drive through Antwerp, which drives up the cost of later transport. This was well highlighted by my colleague, Lars Hjälmered, in the previous debate on business as a whole. Sweden's countryside is the foundation of some of the country's most important industries. These can be protected and developed. Rural businesses are strengthened by allowing farm sales. In my part of the country, Skåne, food and drinks are a large part of the tourism industry, and I want to see it grow stronger with restaurants, attractions and hotel nights. The competitiveness of rural areas is strengthened by regulatory simplification and reduced costs, not by increased taxes on labour and transport. The level of service in rural areas is strengthened by new investments, infrastructure, IT and broadband deployment. Growth is created by individuals, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. The objective of regional growth policy is and remains the same: that all of Sweden's development power, growth potential and employment opportunities should be well exploited and developed.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-619	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on regional growth. The Swedish Democrats are positive about rural opportunities, while at the same time we see the major challenges of depopulation and involuntary urbanisation. 1.4 million Swedes live and work in some way in rural areas. They enable a strong trade balance through their activities in, for example, the forest, mining and metal industry. Growing tourism would have a positive impact on both employment and migration. Good infrastructure in physical transport and the internet are important prerequisites for regional growth. The Swedish Democrats believe that the state should play an active role in terms of the conditions for regional growth. There may be a mutually positive interaction between the state and the private. Mr President, I would like to In many parts of Sweden there are good opportunities to promote a growing tourism industry. What makes the industry particularly interesting regarding the impact on the labour market is its labour force intensity. New projects and increased turnover lead to new jobs. Some examples of suitable experiences for rural areas are horse tourism, holiday rentals, activity packages with nature experiences and hunting and fishing. Employment growth in tourism amounted to nearly 20 per cent between 2010 and 2016, while overall employment growth amounted to only 8.7 per cent. According to the World Economic Forum, Sweden's attractiveness abroad places 23 out of 150 countries compared. Interest in Sweden is relatively large in the outside world. In 2014, the industry had sales of SEK 268 billion and 159,000 employed. One of Sweden's largest tourist organisations in the project National strategy for Swedish tourism has set itself the goal of having a turnover of SEK 500 billion per year by 2020. There is interest abroad, there is confidence in the future and from the Swedish Democrats we want to ensure that the political will exists. Regardless of the branch of tourism, there are various challenges that need to be addressed in order to create growth. Most important from a political point of view is to solve issues related to proper infrastructure, simplified regulatory frameworks, investment, education and attractiveness abroad. The differentiated VAT rate in the tourism industry is problematic, as it leads to unnatural competitive advantages and puts small-scale nature and ecotourism, which are mainly found in rural areas, at a disadvantage. For example, 6% of VAT is paid in a zoo, while 25% is paid in game watching in the open. A museum tour is guided by 6 percent while a city walk is 25 percent. The Ecotourism Association carried out a study of the effects of this and concluded that the current system is cumbersome and bureaucratic and disadvantages the most labour-intensive parts. It was also noted that the areas that were particularly disadvantaged were nature experiences where together with local guides paddle, bikes or ski compared to boats, buses and ski lifts in more densely populated areas. A similar problem exists in the book industry, where printed books have a VAT rate of only 6 per cent while e-books pay 25 per cent in VAT. The same is true of the so-called dance tape VAT: Music without access to dance floors is charged 6 percent in VAT while music with access to dance floors is charged 25 percent in VAT. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is high time to review these bordering problems. A review of VAT rates is certainly under way in the EU, but given that this may take a long time – as it usually does in the EU – it is justified to carry out a national review urgently. Mr President, I would like to Friluftslivet reaches many social groups and is an important resource for regional development and thus an important part of the cluster of industries that interact and create the conditions for living businesses in a vibrant countryside. Together with our Nordic neighbours, we have great opportunities for closer Nordic cooperation to promote outdoor life. A strong and developed outdoor life provides many jobs, namely about 200 000 throughout the Nordic region. Outdoor life has great economic value. From an economic perspective, outdoor life can be seen as a process where experiences are created by visitors to nature through a combination of the visitor's own time, knowledge and equipment and natural resources, facilities and services. Nordic cooperation also plays an important role in the exchange of, for example, labour, experiences and tourism between countries.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-636	Mr President, I would like to The whole country will live! What do we mean by that? Is that a good way to express yourself? In Norway they say: Take the whole country into use! The more I think about it, the more sure I am that it is an approach we in Sweden should also have. This would mean that you can't sit in Stockholm and decide that the countryside should be some kind of Skansen where you can go on weekends to experience untouched nature and see wolf. We need to change our approach here in Parliament and in our authorities. In the last 40 years there has been systematic governance towards centralisation and therefore urbanisation in a way that no one really wanted to see but which has happened anyway. The Center Party believes that in Sweden everyone should be able to live and realize their dreams no matter where they live – if it is in the countryside, in smaller towns, in villages, in the suburbs or in the inner city, you should have the same opportunities to live, work and run businesses. The basis for development throughout the country is good conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. As has been said here before, we know that four out of five jobs in Sweden are created by small and medium-sized enterprises. A well-functioning infrastructure and more housing are needed in smaller and larger cities, towns and villages. Without the possibility of work commuting and freight transport, the job engine stops in Sweden. There is a need for more jobs both in mills and suburbs. The need for a reformed housing market is great throughout the country, whether it is about enabling increased construction in rural coastal locations or reforming the rental market in big cities. We need a level playing field no matter where you live in the country. Equivalent opportunities throughout the country do not automatically imply uniformity. The same challenge can be solved in different ways in different parts of the country. The policy therefore needs to be designed with an understanding that the conditions are different in different parts of the country. Decisions should be made as close to people as possible, because then we will have a development based on established and real needs. That is what we in the Center Party call local politics. Mr President, I would like to In the midst of a strong international boom, problems in the Swedish economy are growing. There is an increase in the number of jobs in Sweden, where vulnerable groups make up an increasing proportion of the unemployed. At the same time, there is a gap between the areas that are growing and have followed the global upturn and the places that have been left out. Regional fragmentation must be broken, both with improvements for small businesses and with reinforced infrastructure. I and the Center Party believe that the government is pursuing an irresponsible economic policy that reduces structural savings and reinforces the risks of overheating. Instead, we want to be sparing when the economy is good, both to have the resources to face the crisis that we know is coming and not to increase the risks of overheating. For me, the Center Party's overall draft budget is a whole that creates entrepreneurship, which is the only thing that provides the conditions for living, living and operating throughout the country. To believe that subsidies and non-demand-driven aid jobs would make rural areas develop is a mistake. That policy has been tested for 50 years, and it has failed. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to create the world's most modern countryside and the world's greenest cities. There is a cleavage between the towns that have benefited from structural change and have followed the global upturn and those that have been left out. In a modern economy, one must be able to move between different environments and situations. In the Center Party Sweden, the whole country needs to contribute, and there is no conflict between the city and the countryside. Rural areas and cities share steam challenges with each other. In both suburbs and mills there is a need for more jobs. The same applies to the need for a well-functioning and climate-smart infrastructure. The Center Party wants to regionalise the property fee for power-producing properties in order to return a small part of the profits generated in rural and rural areas. Mr President, I would like to Not everything is dark in our country, but much is good. If there is anything I look forward to, it is the proposal that the government is working on now, which is based on the Rural Committee's report. It contains 75 proposals that are good for rural areas. The report talks about equal opportunities for rural areas and about taking advantage of rural conditions. It also points out that there is a need for investment capital. At the same time, the government is shutting down Inlandsinnovation, on the grounds that there are geographical limitations – which for me was the whole idea of Inlandsinnovation. Why should there be state venture capital in markets where there is private venture capital? Shouldn't state venture capital be where it's needed? And why does the state bank SBAB have no offices in Norrland? Is there a need for a government bank in locations that already have functioning banking activities? The Rural Committee addresses the possibilities of digitalisation for the whole country. I have some bad experiences from my municipality of Mora, where I was a municipal councillor before. The Tax Agency left the area on the grounds that people can handle their affairs online. That is precisely what is wrong. Authorities should decentralise in the context of digitalisation, but instead centralise despite the fact that we have the opportunity to spread jobs across the country. Rural Minister Bucht has announced an investment of SEK 150 million in broadband in sparsely populated areas, which is great. In Dalarna, 3 per cent of Sweden's population live. We would need this 150 million only in Dalarna to achieve a coverage equivalent to 98 percent of the population. It's a good bet, but it's far too little money. Indeed, much of the support for broadband goes to areas where it would be commercially possible to expand anyway. The problem when you say that 98 percent of the country's population should have access to broadband is that it will then be in southern Sweden. One should have added a parameter that takes into account population density. Perhaps the money should have been distributed to the regions rather than to a state authority. The Rural Committee also points out that skills and training must be available throughout the country, which I think is a good thing. At the same time, an authority is closing down tourism training in my neighboring municipality of Orsa – an education where everyone gets a job and has fully subscribed courses. The business is moved south to Mälardalen, despite the fact that Dalarna has the largest tourism business outside the major cities. The Committee also suggests that the opportunity to practice and experience culture should exist wherever you live. What does the government do? Yes, it is decided to enter state museums free of charge. Where are the state museums? Are they in Birger Lahti's village? No, they don't; almost everyone is in Stockholm. I'm on the board of a rural museum, and we're fighting hard to make ends meet. It also mentions the presence of the police. How long do you think it should take the police to come to a woman who is abused at home? What time is reasonable? In Mora police area, where I live, it takes 3 hours and 20 minutes to travel from the north to the southern part of the county. There are 80 employees in the police department, 60 police officers and 20 civilian employees. We have a car in this area on day-to-day evenings. And that situation is still better than that prevailing in Helena Lindahl's area, Västerbotten's inland – they are even worse off. Mr President, I would like to Last week the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture discussed this in Parliament, and Minister Bucht spoke a lot about the need for broad agreements, which I agree with. However, when my centre party colleague Kristina Yngwe took his word and asked when the other parties in the Parliament were invited to discuss the bill, based on the Rural Committee's report, he did not reply, which I feel is a pity. I hope that some of the representatives of the government parties here will be able to answer if there is a broad invitation to discuss the bill, so that we can get to these 75 points. It may not be all, but we hope to get a good operation in rural areas. It would be good if we could get a broad consensus on the sub-report so that rural areas can be given the opportunity to contribute further to Sweden's growth. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude with the call: Take the whole country into use!
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-661	Mr President, I would like to A few months ago, in one of our major newspapers, a journalist, whose name I shall not mention, wrote a rather readable article about some of my constituency, Dalsland. He described the risk of Dalsland becoming the new rust belt, which is referred to in the United States: a region or area that is at risk of falling behind, where it mourns the closure of industries or that companies have not been given the necessary conditions in the world of new urbanisation and digitalisation. A number of years ago I also fought with a person who worked with regional development in Östra Götaland. I will not mention what he called Dalsland either, but he described it like it was just as good to make Dalsland an outdoor area because there were no conditions for the Dalslanders to grow and develop. Ever since I heard that man pronounce those words, I have felt that regional growth and development are incredibly important and that there are many people who actually want to live and work in smaller municipalities and rural areas and actually have great potential to grow and develop, if we only politically provide the conditions. But the discussion about the difference between city and country that has become the focus in recent years has, in the opinion of the Christian Democrats, been too much about suburbs and so-called exclusion areas in large and medium-sized cities. Almost no one has reflected on the similarity in structure between those areas and the smaller towns outside the cities that are struggling with an ageing population and reduced tax bases and thus have quite similar conditions. The perspective of rural areas must be included in all decision-making in order to understand the conditions under which people live. It is not possible, I think, to accept that just because you live in a small town should not be able to be educated to work on the basis of the conditions that exist, take the bus to the health centre or Arbetsförmedlingen or run your business and avoid being afraid that the police because of lack of resources do not grab hold of thefts and burglaries. For whatever reason, one should not be afraid that the police will not come, as my colleague from the Center Party also mentioned. These are too large areas. For rural entrepreneurship to survive in the long term, the whole of the countryside needs to be protected. I think we need to look at this from a particular perspective. Opportunities for housing, communications, security, service, leisure and anything else that creates a living area must be able to develop. The development of the basic industry is of great importance for regional growth and job creation in Sweden. These industries are where they are. The mines are where they are. The steelworks can be moved and closed down. But often they have been there for a very long time, and we hope that they will continue to do so, as well as the paper industry. The disposal of our natural resources forms the basis for our Swedish prosperity. But business challenges to compete with quality and added value locally to get qualified employees to move to a place and want to stay there for a number of years are of course extra great. It may be particularly important for international companies and their employees that there is access to English-speaking classes or even an international school for children in the municipality where they live as well as access to recreation and culture. Infrastructure with good accessibility to flights and trains so that you can travel within and outside Sweden in an easy way is also an important part of stimulating accommodation as well as visitors. Several of my colleagues here have previously mentioned the importance of the tourism industry. It is also part of an industry that is where it is. You go to a sight because it's exactly where it is. In this context, the airline tax becomes so inexplicable. We were on it in another debate last week. I still don't understand the idea of that treasure. It would have been interesting to have this developed once again – what the compensation should be and what geographical area it considers Norrland to be. Gotland is a relatively geographically limited area, but Norrland is the larger. Mr President, I would like to One way to strengthen competitiveness in Sweden, in my opinion, is to resume and drive regionalisation. It is not just a question of how welfare is organised, but also of regional growth logic, which is of particular importance to industry. For example, regionalisation would mean that several county councils would merge into larger regions and thus have a more favourable interaction with regions in other countries, for example in terms of exports and imports of goods and services. In this context, I should like to commend the government on the development of regional export centres. I think that is a good and important part of this. An important part of regionalisation is to create opportunities for equal care. If we are talking about a shortage of police officers, we should also talk about another part of the welfare that is about access to care in an equal way. You should be able to feel confident that no matter where you live, you should have the same access to treatment and medicines. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, however, I would like to highlight a particular effort that the Christian Democrats want to make. We allocate a few million to a targeted research effort on the segregation that we see has taken place more and more both in Europe and in other parts of the world between different regions and between different parts of countries and how it affects Sweden. The fact that digital segregation has been going on for a long time is a problem. Access to a functioning IT infrastructure for both younger and older people is now a necessity, not least for people living outside urban areas. Now I'll give you further commendation. Many years ago, an initiative was taken by the then Social Democratic Government which gave people the opportunity to get a computer via their employer at a low monthly fee. It was an initiative that allowed not least single parents to get not only a computer for their own use but also to give children an opportunity to play games and do homework on the computer. We may feel that access to computers is provided not least by the fact that we all have a smartphone. But it doesn't help everyone, and it definitely doesn't help language development to the full by just having apps. To give researchers the task of seeing how today's division into small municipalities versus large municipalities and small regions versus larger regions affects Swedes' ability to develop on a personal, educational and working level is, in our view, Christian Democrats a very important task. Integration means so much more than that foreign-born people should feel at home in Sweden. This means that everyone, regardless of origin, should feel that Sweden is their home and security wherever they live in the country.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-680	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to the debate, and it is fun to take over the baton in the debate on regional growth. We are creating a policy that gives confidence in the future for the whole country. During this term of office, there has been an end to further tax cuts with major consequences. You can see the faith of the future when you travel around the country. It is felt that it is being invested today, unlike in the past when cuts were made. We have a youth unemployment rate that is record low with EU standards measured. We have employment at the highest level that Europe has ever measured. And over the period, we have turned a deficit of 61 billion into a surplus, so that we can now create a budget that is the strongest since the 1960s. I think we should be proud of that. I am very proud of the policy that we are now pursuing. In this way we can build the country strong, and in this way everyone can have opportunities in all parts of the country. For this area of expenditure, we have a budget of just over 3.9 billion for 2018. As in the previous year, a number of regional policy objectives are set, and a number of targets are set for 2018. There are three main objectives that I would like to highlight. It is about reaching the overall goal of continuing to push back unemployment, so that it is the lowest in the EU by 2020. We shall achieve the national environmental objectives, and we shall achieve equality between men and women. These objectives shall contribute to the Government's objectives for equal regional growth. Cohesion policy, i.e. the EU's regional growth and employment policy, and its efforts should also contribute to the objective of regional growth policy. The same applies to the national strategy for sustainable regional growth and attractiveness for the period 2015–2020 and its efforts. The 2018 budget proposal has also included formulations for regional growth policies to contribute to social, economic and environmental development, which means that efforts in this area will strengthen the implementation of Agenda 2030 and the global sustainable development goals. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned at the outset, the budget in this area covers some 3.9 billion. It is worth noting that it looks different for some other parties. The Moderates propose to remove the investment of SEK 35 million for commercial service. It was an investigation set up by the bourgeois government that resulted in us adding money to the very support of commercial service. The effect has been a reduction in the number of small shops closing down. You feel that there is a chance to continue. When we have been around the country, people have not said that they want this support removed, but rather that it should be permanent. It has to be long-term. This is exactly what we are about now, and that is what the Moderates are taking away. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates also remove 7 million to improve labour market matching. It is also a little interesting, because that is precisely what people are asking for: to be able to employ the right skills. Today there are about 100 000 vacancies in the Swedish labour market, and what is needed is education – that people should be able to train themselves to take the jobs that exist. To remove funds for the match is, of course, in my view, totally wrong policy. The Center Party proposes a 507 million reduction in funding. There is a reduction of 7 million to the match no one there too, and there is 500 million less in aid to socio-economically and structurally disadvantaged municipalities and areas. That was not mentioned by the previous speaker. Liberals in turn propose a reduction of 613 million. It is also a reduction in funding for municipalities by 500 million, and it is a reduction of 113 million for a return to previous levels. The Christian Democrats are decreasing by a total of 496 million. The draft budget of the opposition would have a significant impact. These are big cuts. If that were to happen, I am concerned about the consequences it would have for the whole of Sweden to have the opportunity to live. Moreover, one can see that the bourgeois are divided. They do not make the same proposal. In addition, for each year of 2019 and 202 0, we have included 750 million linked to the rural bill we plan to present this spring, and I do not see this at all in the bourgeois draft budget. Mr President, I would like to The regional consideration and management of resources in virtually all expenditure and policy areas is of particular importance for achieving the objectives. This is a consequence of the fact that regional growth policies cover considerably more measures than those reported just linked to Category 19 Regional growth. It spans several areas and several committees – it's education, finance, environment and agriculture and so on – and it's important to be involved. Cohesion policy also promotes Europe's competitiveness and helps to keep Europe and Sweden together. The government is closely following the programming period of cohesion policy for 2014-2020. What happens next is an issue that is under intense discussion right now, not least in the light of Brexit. It is reduced money that goes into the EU system from the UK, and there is the Swedish position that we at European level need to have order in the economy. We should not be too expansive, but rather be more restrictive. At the same time, it is important that we have better opportunities for simplification, greater clarity and more transparency. Mr President, I would like to On 25 June 2015, the government decided to set up a parliamentary rural committee, which Peter Helander was discussing earlier. The mission was to make proposals for a coherent policy for rural areas in order to achieve a long-term perspective and sustainable development in Sweden's rural areas. On 4 January this year, the Committee submitted a final report: For Sweden's rural areas – a coherent policy for work, sustainable growth and well-being. As Mr Peter said earlier, the report contains 75 proposals covering issues relating to business and entrepreneurship, digital communication, transport infrastructure, skills provision, community planning and housing, commercial services, welfare services, culture and state presence in rural areas. It also contains a proposal for the governance and organisation of rural policy, which is also a very important issue, as well as proposals for horizontal objectives and milestones for it. The report has been referred to, and more than 400 referrals have been received. They are, of course, a very valuable basis in the work on the forthcoming bill. In the spring of 2018, the Government will submit a proposal to the Swedish Parliament with proposals for a coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas. As I mentioned, in order to finance it all, there are already identified 750 million for 2019 and 2020. I think it is important for the bourgeois too to think about how they want it, because they were in fact united – apart from the Liberals, who had a reservation in the Rural Committee. I am really looking forward to the spring, when these 75 proposals will be passed on to Parliament. At last we have economic conditions and a strong economic policy with stability in the country and in the government, and we can look forward with confidence to the bill being put on the table. I would therefore like to ask for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the remainder to be rejected.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-701	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for you, Mattias Jonsson. It's about your comparison, that there's so much money and that you've done so well. We have – and I am also addressing you sitting in the gallery – gone through the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. It was deep, and whoever rides the roller coaster knows what it means: You're far down, and then you're going to get up from there. In addition, Sweden has received praise from the outside world for having done very well and is a leading country. This compares Mattias Jonsson and the Social Democrats all the time with their situation and says that we do not have such a strong boom since the 60s. There is a certain span in between, and one cannot really do as the Social Democrats, i.e. flatten it out and say: We compare over time– it doesn't matter what position we have, but we have a policy that looks the same. That's not how it works. When it comes to stability, consider the following: If you are so good at burning all your money now in a boom, what about the next recession? Is it then that we are going to clean up after the prosperity of the Social Democrats, when they took the chance to spend everything instead of keeping it? So to my question to Mattias Jonsson. There are concerns about money that stays in the authorities. We are talking about European funds and lead times that are long. Plans in municipalities and regions stop and risk not being feasible because money may even come so late that it cannot be used that year. What does Mattias Jonsson want to do with the government's bill if the authorities now have such obstacles in their operations? It is said in Leader projects, and it is said that the Board of Agriculture is delayed. The Swedish Agency for Growth does not deliver, and there are also problems with Vinnova. That is what Penilla was on in the last debate.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-706	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, AnnAnn-Charlotte! Yeah, that's a lot of money. I would first like to say that the government is pursuing a responsible economic policy. I mentioned in my speech that we have turned a deficit of 61 billion, which we inherited from you, into what is today a huge surplus. We can make investments of 40 billion in our welfare and security systems, which we urgently need. It is of an order of magnitude v i have not seen since the 60's. At the same time, we continue to pursue a responsible economic policy by also paying off the public debt by EUR 40 billion. It's important to have said. What we can also see is that the government's policies have increased employment by 200 000. Of these 200 000, 100 000 jobs can be directly linked to active labour market and enterprise policies. The question about the authorities, Ann-Charlotte, you're welcome to develop a little more. I note, however, that, as is also stated in the final report of the Rural Committee, we need better governance of rural policy. We need cooperation between the authorities that works better. For example, we need better handover between county councils and municipalities. There are a number of areas where development potential is also identified.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-710	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I got an answer to my question about the Board of Agriculture and long lead times. Nor have the county administrative boards succeeded in their task in the past. This is about Leader projects. It is about opportunities for the money we have, as the government itself has said, to ensure that better use is made. It is in our documentation, so Mattias Jonsson may be able to answer this question. The claim that we spend less money on commercial service is not true. We are spending just as much money as we have done in the past, so it is also an error. That is the case – we spend as much money as we have done in the past. We're not going to spend any more money on the match the way we do today. If we spend more money on something that does not work, that does not get people to work, it becomes more expensive and wrong. We are going to do new things and take a look at how people are going to get jobs. It's really important. We can talk about the unemployment that exists, because it exists in some places. This applies, among other things, to the restaurant industry, which is part of the tourism industry. There are shortage jobs, and the threshold for jobs for young people is low. Despite the boom, the number of bankruptcies is increasing – 6 per cent more than in 2016. The biggest problems are in the restaurant business, where cooks are needed among other things. It is 19 percent who, in a booming boom, are going bankrupt. Here, the Moderates want to reduce employers' contributions for young people under the age of 20, because these people have low thresholds to get to work. As I understand it, he seems to think that this is a completely unnecessary measure that is not at all necessary. I think that's a strange reasoning. We know that there are groups in society that can get a good job in a good way. Mattias Jonsson is also welcome to respond to this. I would also like him to answer the questions instead of talking about new tax cuts, because it might be good to know what the government itself is doing.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-716	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of questions, but I'll try to take them one by one. As for the Swedish Board of Agriculture's long lead times, this is obviously something that should work in a good, reasonable and sensible way – lead times should not be long. Exactly what measures have been taken I should almost have the opportunity to return to you with, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, but of course that will work. I think that in your speech you also talked about driving licences and long names. We as Members of Parliament do not control our work and how it works, but of course these things should work. As for the 35 million for commercial service, the Moderates did not include them in the budgets they had during their reign, so there is the same figure. But in the current period's budgets we have added about 35 million each year to support commercial service. That is what is not included in the Moderates' budget. We debated growth support in the previous debate, in terms of support for employers. As far as employers' contributions are concerned, there is today a reduction, which I believe is called Area A. There is also a focus on moving this forward in one of the 75 proposals of the Rural Committee. Let's get back to spring when we have a bill. Then we can look at what proposals are there to take another step.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-721	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Jonsson, for your speech. It contained some good things, some bad things and some inaccuracies. I wanted to ask a few questions that I also asked in my speech, because I know that Mattias Jonsson has been part of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, which has made a good proposal. I asked if the other parties in the Riksdag would be invited to discuss the bill, which is so important to the Swedish countryside, or whether this would be a work only from the Green Party and the Social Democrats, which would just be presented to us to watch and say okay or no. This is my first question, and I hope there will be an invitation. I also had a question about the relocation of government services, which I think is a good thing. In the committee, you have proposed the relocation of 10 000 public services from Stockholm. Then we should remember that it has moved in 10 000 government services over the last 15 to 20 years, so this really only means restoring it to what it looked like earlier. I think this is a good thing. Now you have announced 400 services to be moved out of Stockholm. You move jobs from Stockholm to Luleå, Gothenburg, Växjö, Gävle, Visby, Östersund and Katrineholm. Visby I can understand – they need government jobs. But why Katrineholm, where the largest relocation of government services takes place? How far is it from central Stockholm to Katrineholm? It takes an hour by train, I saw when I Googled. One might wonder whether this really is a relocation of government services into the country. The same question can also be asked for the other cities. I think we should move these services to small or small towns, but we do not.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-726	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin with the question of the proposal and participation in that work. It is, of course, the government that is working on this and that owns the question of how such invitations are conducted. My picture is that there is work going on, and I assume that Parliament will be involved. However, in what way and when this should happen, the government itself must be able to respond. The question of the 10,000 government jobs is very important. In the Stockholm area alone, the number of state employment in the last ten years, I think, has increased by 10 000. If I remember correctly, there are 152 government agencies located in Stockholm, while in Gothenburg there are three government agencies. I think it is extremely important for us to have a relocation and also for new authorities to be located around our country – not only in larger cities but also elsewhere. This is an initial journey, which is crucial if we are serious about the whole country living and that rural areas also have the opportunity for skills and development. If we are serious about this, this is part of it, so I look forward to further steps being taken.
i-FKQg9gjLuzozYGRx6QDbUa	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Jonsson, for the answers! I'm going to develop it a little bit. Now some jobs have been moved from Stockholm to Gothenburg – if I am not mistaken, it is about ten of them. Perhaps that is not what we want to do when we talk about moving jobs to rural areas. I see that government jobs go to places that already have strong growth, usually university cities, when they should instead be located in medium-sized towns. I say this not only because I happen to come from such a place but because that is where these jobs would be very useful. It is clear that the government owns the question of inviting to deliberate on a bill. I believe that the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs are in close contact with the government, so perhaps you can influence the government to some extent. I would like to ask a question about access to capital in rural areas. Inland innovation, which had a special geographical focus on the hinterland of Norrland and parts of Dalarna and Värmland, was moved away on the grounds that there were geographical locks. As I said in my speech, I mean that that is exactly what was the idea – the state should operate where there is no market economy that works and where it is difficult to get hold of venture capital instead of getting into and working in big cities and in growth centres. I also have a question about SBAB. Why do we have a government bank with this name that leaves Norrland? What is the role of the bank if it does not operate in low capital markets? I have an example from Vansbro. Lyko, a wholesaler dealing with hair care products, creams and the like, cannot expand its business in Vansbro because the property becomes less worth when it is completed than it costs to build it. Therefore, they are recommended to move to Stockholm, which would result in the loss of 100 jobs in a weak market. What does Mattias Jonsson think about that?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-734	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the question of the authorities and relocation. In order for it to be right, I want to say that I think there are two more authorities in Gothenburg: the Equality Agency and an institute with ten or twelve employees, who have moved from Borås. This is a journey that is very important. I am very pleased that the government, with Ardalan Shekarabi at its head, is taking hold of making these changes and that they are not only talking about them but also working for us to get them place. We see the first steps taken. I have no other opinion than that we need to see additional investments elsewhere in Sweden, in areas other than only larger cities. As far as Inland innovation is concerned, only the Center Party on the bourgeois edge is arguing in this way. It is a question in which I imagine it would be an advantage to be seen on the bourgeois edge. In a debate after a debate, this issue comes up. Saminvest, who takes over, pays tribute to the investments that Inland innovation has made in the past and continues to take steps in that direction. I do not see the problem and share the view of the other bourgeois parties, government parties and Left parties on this issue. I don't see the danger that the Center Party sees.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-739	Mr President, I would like to I am almost a little moved when Mattias Jonsson expresses concern about the Alliance's various draft budgets and what he calls cuts and a split between us. The concern of the Alliance throughout the parliamentary term is not about the division between the Social Democrats and the Green Party, but about the disagreement that has become something of the so-called signum of the so-called cooperation government. If you are concerned about cuts, we are all the more concerned about all the tax write-up that is going on. This is about EUR 65.9 billion that has been implemented or announced by the government during its term of office, to date. If you consider that you want to benefit the business community and ensure that companies live and develop and that the labour market thrives all over Sweden, I am curious about how you think that increased petrol tax and reduced ROT and RUT deductions will promote it. Furthermore, I wonder why the issue of regionalisation could not be pursued much more, so that there would be greater equality between the different parts of Sweden.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-744	Mr President, I would like to If you read the draft budget of the bourgeois parties, you can see that there are major cuts. It varies between 30 billion and 50 billion when we enter 2018. There are significant cuts in the labour market, in support of the sick and so on. You're making a series of cuts. In this area too, when compared with the government budget. So, yes, I was worried about the bourgeois proposals. Let's take the youth worker's tax, which was under your government's control. There was an accumulated cost of 130 billion, and Sweden had a higher youth unemployment rate than now. Thanks to our changes, we can note the lowest youth unemployment in the EU. Industry goes like a train, and we start more training courses to provide companies with the skills they need. We need these tax revenues to train and match the labour market and to invest in school, health care and care for the elderly. Then we cannot continue with a tax-merger policy that has not been favourable to the country. It has been tried a few times, and every time unemployment has increased and deficits have shone. In the debate, this is often linked to economic cycles, but it is a policy that has demonstrably not worked. Save us from allowing it to happen again.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-747	Mr President, I would like to There is no surreptitious socialization of Sweden, but it is very clear. As I said, social democracy is not primarily a sign of cooperation. Rather, it is a question of finding areas of conflict with the rest of us. During this term of office, a number of authorities are crashing. Although the number of civil servants has increased enormously, which is obviously part of the process of socialisation, we have authorities that do not work. And what about subsidies to create jobs? One can really question whether repairs to refrigerators create lots of jobs. I also question whether the subsidy on electric bicycles creates more jobs than the bicycle dealers. At the same time, parts of the government are opposed to the possibility of expanding mining and other activities in Sweden. It would rather import from other countries in order to realise the digitalisation and electrification of the industry. How does this add up, Mattias Jonsson? You have a completely contradictory policy. In addition, as my colleague, Lars Helmered, said, you have a third leg on the left-wing side of the government because you need help to push through your tax promotion policy.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-752	Mr President, I would like to The tax changes we have made are not tax shocks. The 3:12 rules are not included in our budget, but in the debate they are used as bats. The debate must distinguish between what is actually presented and what is feared. It is difficult to find out when listening to the debate. I believe that the subsidy for electric bicycles, which is also of environmental benefit, is quite appreciated by the Swedish people. Even if we give the highest priority to jobs, the environment is also high on our agenda. Take the examples you highlight, Penilla Gunther. But other successful examples can also be highlighted. For example, the new industrialisation strategy and export strategy have enabled companies to enter new markets and hire more. Unemployment goes down, industry goes too high – for example, the car industry goes like a train – and we have very good figures in the Swedish economy. I do not see any parameter indicating that these are wrong decisions that would put Sweden in a difficult economic situation, increase unemployment or reduce our welfare. We stand for the Swedish model. We're going to develop it, not phase it out.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-757	Mr President, I would like to If Sweden is to stay together, there needs to be good conditions for living and operating in all parts of the country where people want to live. As the government emphasizes, the conditions vary across the country to create development power. People's ability to live and to establish and develop businesses and businesses depends on a number of basic conditions. These are: communications, services, labour markets, natural and cultural environments, cultural values, housing and proximity to education, research and innovation environments. Politics must have this as a background, namely that there are different conditions but at the same time some basic requirements for society. Against this background, I am pleased and proud that the government is making a great effort on the municipalities that are most difficult. There are areas in Sweden that face major challenges, such as high unemployment, low levels of education, low voting turnout and low employment rates. This situation is, of course, unacceptable. Regardless of where you live in Sweden, you should have good opportunities to develop and participate in society. Therefore, the government proposes a long-term investment in 15 socio-economically disadvantaged municipalities and areas in different parts of Sweden. As early as next year, half a billion will be added, and after that, the budget will be increased by 1 billion a year. This is money that is needed and that is well invested for a society that should stick together. In order to create a coherent policy, we need to be able to see that many aspects are involved. For viable environments throughout the country, we need a functioning establishment of new arrivals, active and innovative climate work and, not least, conditions for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, which we have already debated a lot today. It is therefore clear that many other policies are involved in the work of regional growth. Communications and infrastructure are central, and here the government will soon present an infrastructure plan with an historic increase in the economic framework, for rapid and sustainable transport throughout the country. The government has also already spent extra money on railway maintenance during its term of office and has made a special effort on transport in rural areas. In environmental policy, we invest in protecting valuable nature and forests, which contributes to a competitive tourism industry. We invest billions in thousands of climate projects around the country within what is called the Climate Q & A. This provides expansion of charging poles, energy conversion for companies and more biogas plants. We increase and extend methane gas reduction aid so that farmers get currency because they use their waste and at the same time contribute to a fossil-free vehicle fleet. We are permanentising the urban environment agreements, which allow municipalities to receive co-financing when they want to invest in public transport or to renovate their urban environment. All these initiatives contribute to the growth and prosperity of the whole country. I would like to touch briefly on the issue of airline tax and road wear tax, which has been mentioned by several others in this debate. We know today that the aviation sector and the heavy goods transport sector are two of the areas where we see that we have the most difficult to reduce emissions. In the aviation sector, things are moving in the opposite direction, and we see a clear increase in emissions. International voyages in particular are on the increase and with them emissions are also increasing. In heavy traffic, for many decades we have seen a shift from rail to heavy road transport, which, of course, is tearing down the road and increasing our greenhouse gas emissions, but also particulate matter and nitrogen oxides. This is the reality today, but this speaker's chair repeatedly pretends that it does not know about this and focuses instead on other aspects, while knowing that the government has made exceptions and has put forward proposals that are about compensating parts of the country and that at the moment there is a preparation of the road-wear tax, to be presented in the spring, that is to differentiate it according to geography. With all of this as a background, I think that we are receiving the climate issue in this way. Then you turn yourself into an unserious politician on climate issues, and I would like to say this in this debate. There are many things that are going to be done for Sweden to stick together. I believe that the government's policy is taking several powerful steps in the right direction in this area. I therefore support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-774	Mr President, I would like to Much of the debate that has taken place here this afternoon on regional growth has been about the tourism industry – a tourism industry in a country that is very far north, with a small population but with good destinations to visit and experience things that are unique to the country. We have all spoken warmly about this in this House, as I have heard. At the same time, Lorentz Tovatt points out that it is a major concern that we travel internationally and that we are not serious who have a different opinion on how to solve the possibilities of aviation than what the Green Party has. For me, the flight is an opportunity. I believe in technology development and the conversion of fuels. I do not believe in a stop ban and in putting an end to what we need to be an attractive country for the tourism industry. Lorentz will be happy to respond to this in his reply. It'll be a burden on the countryside, and you said you'd make up for it. Okay. On the one hand, you should charge a tax for people not to go, and on the other hand, you should compensate at the other end. It won't hold. It doesn't make sense to think that way. We must have a sustainable system, and then it must be better to be able to quickly get to where you are going. If we can develop aviation, we will have non-rail traffic in the future so that we can travel in an elongated country with large distances. I would also like an answer to that.
i-LeHbjrx3t5c3wknz38M6UK	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! It's gonna be kind of weird. We have discussed this many times. Other parties in this House have at least endeavoured to come up with alternative proposals. For example, the Center Party has a proposal for a change of fuel in the tank, which the government welcomes and is now setting up an investigation to introduce. Tax is therefore not in contrast to technology development, rather the opposite – they complement each other well. It is interesting that we are opposed to the tax while at the same time opposed to high-speed roads. It's gonna be a pretty bizarre situation. On the most common route in Sweden, between Stockholm and Gothenburg, for example, they should not be allowed to have high-speed routes according to the Moderates, nor should they have to take responsibility for their climate emissions when flying. Unfortunately, the Moderates seem to have decided to stand on the side of CO2 emissions in almost every context. That will be the conclusion here. Those of us who are passionate about the climate should not be able to make any proposals, because whatever we put forward is wrong. At the same time, the Moderates have no alternative to what we are presenting. The question goes back to Ann-Ann-Charlotte: What is she and her party doing to make aviation more sustainable now that we see an incredibly strong increase in flight and emissions from aviation? What are the Moderates doing about this?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-782	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question what the Moderates are doing around the flight is simple. It says in our budget that we have green development. We spend money on fuel technology development. That's how we work. We're in development, not decommissioning. As far as high-speed roads are concerned, I think: 9 million people live in Sweden. There is a cost for building high-speed trains. Everyone along the route thinks that the train should stay with them, but the word high-speed means getting from one point to the next and not staying in between. It is a large cost and an important alternative cost for what can be done in a country that is in the position you are doing, if you compare. We have many tracks that need to be renovated daily, for example, and we also need to expand the motorway. On the E6 in Skåne it is completely still. You can hardly get from Malmö to Helsingborg if you travel or commute every day. At the same time, there are no trains that can be reached on the side of the road. Lorentz laughs, but I actually think it's pretty serious. At the same time, accidents happen. I have a question back. When Karin Svensson Smith was asked directly that seven airports are at risk of being shut down because of the airline tax, her answer was in Dagens Nyheter: It is good in that case. As I've been inside, there are many people who are going to move in our country. It's about income and growth. You should be able to commute by plane to other parts of the country, you should be able to train, you should be able to do business, you should be able to work in a trade union and you should be able to travel and visit your loved ones and friends. I think like this: Is this an issue in which all of you in the Green Party share your views? Is that the solution? Is the solution Karin Svensson Smiths's announcement that airports should be closed? Is her statement something that you support? I can take the example of Gotland, which I mentioned earlier. I see Lorentz shaking his head here. SEK 29 800,000 says Swedavia loses on what you propose. This means that they will not remove flights for business travellers. They will remove flights for ordinary people to travel, and then there will be flight departures that will disappear in order to solve this task. It's also work that goes away.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-789	Mr President, I would like to It does not surprise me at all that the Moderates have listened to the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce in its reports. It is usually tradition that the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce presents something that is badly investigated and that the Moderates then immediately take after. We can see that in most cases. This also applies to motorways built in Stockholm; it has happened in this way. In this particular case, it is particularly remarkable because the report has been criticised from most quarters. Even individual managers of airports say: that is not true. It will not be the case that a lot of airports are being shut down. So it is a bad report to rely on. The important thing is, of course, that all modes of transport should bear their climate costs. It is a view that the Moderates obviously do not share despite the fact that emissions are increasing almost exponentially from this sector. It is naive to think that you could solve the situation just by spending some money on biofuels. It is important to remember that even if we were to have a 100% biofuel-based fleet in air traffic by 2030, we would have the same amount of emissions as today if the increase in aviation continued even more. The bio-fuel is not capable of dealing with the high-height effects of aviation fuel. Emissions will therefore be the same – at very unsustainable levels. It is therefore particularly remarkable that the Moderates are opposed to the basic principle that the releaser should pay for himself. It is particularly remarkable when they oppose faster trains at the same time. There is much research that shows that just when you pass two and a half hours of train travel, people choose to take a flight to a greater extent. Now we want to build the high-speed track so that you come down during this time between Stockholm and Gothenburg, which is the most common route you travel in Sweden. Then the Moderates oppose this. Whatever you do as a climate friend, it just goes wrong. You cannot do anything right; it becomes the essence of Moderate logic.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-793	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 2 Area of expenditure 19 Regional growth and the areas of expenditure there. I touch a little on what I was talking about in my previous speech on the presentation of results and how it should be handled. It is included in the report. The idea is that it will increase understanding of government funds, how they are used and what results they get. The Government's performance report is an important basis for the Riksdag's budget preparation. A starting point for the parliamentary follow-up of the budget bill's performance report is that it should be possible for the committee to follow the link between goals, efforts made and results achieved. The idea is that we should be able to budget more accurately the year after a result report. However, I am not going to go into this all the more, but I am simply saying that the accounts are getting better year by year. In 2016, the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement to the Government in response to motion requests for localisation and organisation of government agencies, which have been addressed in previous speeches. The Parliament endorsed the Committee on Economic Affairs' statement that the Government should examine the possibility of relocating authorities from major cities to rural areas and that the Government should report back to the Riksdag in the appropriate context what measures have been taken. The committee notes that the Government does not report the announcement as finalised. The committee therefore assumes that the matter will be further prepared and that the government will return to Parliament on the matter. I will come back to measures announced by the government.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-796	The objective of regional growth policy is development power in all parts of the country with enhanced local and regional competitiveness. Regional growth policy will contribute to the government's three priority areas, which also Mattias: reaching the overall target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020, achieving national environmental objectives and achieving equality between men and women. Regional growth policies will also contribute to social, economic and environmental development, thus strengthening the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the global sustainable development goals in the policy area. In July 2015, the government decided on a national strategy for sustainable regional growth and attractiveness for 2015 – 2020. The priority areas for regional growth policy are innovation and entrepreneurship, attractive environments and accessibility, skills provision and international cooperation. It is also important for the state to improve coordination between policies that are of particular importance for regional growth policy and to strengthen the coordination of efforts by state authorities. Where appropriate, the authorities shall take into account, as far as possible, regional conditions in their activities. The Government intends to review how consideration of regional conditions should be taken into account in government governance. On the other hand, the specialisation and sectoralisation of the state administration must not lead to fragmentation and a lack of holistic approach. The state must take responsibility and have a strong presence throughout the country to contribute to jobs and sustainable regional growth and development. Individual access to public services should not depend on where in the country you live. We in the Left Party are pleased that the government intends to work to increase the spread of government agencies across the country and continue its efforts to relocate agencies. By decision of the Riksdag in connection with the budget proposal for 2016, the grant was allocated 1:1 Regional growth measures SEK 35 million during the period 2016– 2019. The funds will be used to provide additional long-term support for commercial services in particularly vulnerable sparsely populated areas. For 2018, an additional SEK 35 million is proposed for this purpose, which is also expected to continue for 2019. Someone here was in on who wants to cut back on this. It is these kinds of efforts that become necessary when urbanization has gone so far that the vital service is not coped with the so talked about fantastic market power that is often painted by the bourgeoisie as the savior of most problems. The government also states, and rightly so, that there are areas in Sweden that have major challenges, such as high unemployment, low educational attainment, low voting turnout and low employment rates. This situation cannot be accepted. Regardless of where you live in Sweden, you should have good opportunities to develop and participate in society. The Government, together with the Left Party, therefore proposes a long-term investment in socio-economically disadvantaged municipalities and areas throughout Sweden. So the Green Party and the Social Democrats are also in favour of this. This initiative aims to strengthen the municipalities' own work in order to improve the conditions in the areas most in need. The grant 1:1 Regional growth measures are proposed to increase by SEK 500 million in 2018 and by 1 500 million in 2019 in order to implement the previously mentioned investments. I could stand here for hours and tell you about injustices that have arisen or will arise because of urbanisation – or call it rural death or whatever you want. I've seen the urbanization, and it's been the same regardless of the color of government. I know this for 40 years. Now I'll be honest with you and tell you something I wasn't going to tell you. I remember when there was a change of government in 2006– I know a lot of what Peter Helander talks about, because we come from smaller towns– and I thought: We'll see now, this will be exciting. A mentor I had in the party earlier told me that center parties used to be called radical petty bourgeois. But what happened, Peter Helander? Nothing. It continued as usual, and there was no regional policy to talk about. You even got a center party at the business office, and what was the result? Two hugely bad deals. So don't come and tell me about business sense! Don't come up with that problem! Those of us who live in these most vulnerable places pay the highest tax but have the lowest public service. The fact that we then contribute to Sweden's prosperity with natural resources and educated young people who move to the cities where their knowledge is sought is not mentioned when little regional policy benefits at least a little equalization. But the hope is, of course, that perhaps we have been seen now and realise that we in rural areas are also needed in future Sweden. Late, the sinner will wake up. It is gratifying for us in the Left Party and me as a true hillbilly that the Government's ambition is to strengthen Sweden's capacity for innovation in order to contribute to sustainable development and create the conditions for new jobs to grow throughout the country. We also welcome the intention to return to Parliament with a proposal for a coherent rural policy. It is important to create a coherent policy in which the rural perspective becomes a natural way of working for all departments and authorities. Parliament will have reason to come back to these issues when the government leaves the bill based on the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, which some have mentioned. Mr President, I would like to I naturally support the committee's proposal in report NU2 in all its parts.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-812	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. We will start by debating the area of gender equality. From our side it is I who do, and Christian Holm Barenfeld will debate the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. The Moderates, together with the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats, have a special opinion on the matter. Since the majority in the Swedish Parliament has decided in a first stage of the budget process on the framework in a completely different direction from the one we stand for, we will not be taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations in the area of expenditure. Mr President, I would like to For the Moderates, equality is a question of freedom over a power struggle between the sexes. It is the individual who is important, and you as a human being should not be hindered or given benefits depending on the sex you have. Sweden is a good country to live in. We are proud of that, but of course much can be done better. Sweden is often described as one of the world's most equal countries, but at the same time inequality is still a social problem that has negative consequences for both women and men. We Moderates are strongly critical of setting up a new equality authority. In our draft budget, we propose that the existing activities, such as the work against honorary oppression by the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, the activities of the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala and the coordination of work against prostitution and human trafficking in Stockholm, be maintained. Is it not very typical of the Social Democrats and the Left to believe that a new authority will solve the issue of a more equal society and at the same time break up existing functioning activities? There is a risk that competence will disappear when the new authority moves to Gothenburg. If you think an authority can solve all the problems, you think wrong. Gender equality is more important than that, Mr President. In terms of economic equality, I think the government should visit the moderate-led municipality of Solna, which tops the list of municipalities that pay the most equal wages to their employees. Solna is also on an equal footing with regard to the distribution of average wealth among local residents. In moderate municipalities such as Täby, Danderyd and Österåker, the female employees employed by the municipality earn much more than men. Of course, it is not equal that men earn less in these municipalities but still a good example of the fact that the Moderates work with gender equality for real and not just talking about the importance of gender equality. One wonders, Mr President, where is the Socialist example of equality? In both Gothenburg and Malmö, men earn much more. Mr President, I would like to It is important now that we do not back down from equality at a time when it is being tested. Today, gender equality is challenged above all by extensive exclusion. There are women in our country who cannot work because there is a risk that they will meet men in the workplace. There are women who cannot move freely in society, dress as they please or be as they please. If someone has a problem with that, it should be that person who stays at home. Healthy individuals who are fully able to work must not participate in society because they are women and because it is the man who is afraid and has problems. That is totally unacceptable. It is an outdated structure that forces women to go for financial aid. Of course, this does not apply to everyone, but it is enough that it is a person who is prevented in his or her rights and freedoms in order for it to be sufficiently serious. Unfortunately, nearly 1 million people live on subsidies in Sweden today instead of working. This can be seen not least in the way foreign born women are left out. One in ten women born abroad receives financial aid, what was previously called social assistance, compared with one in a hundred women born in the country. The Moderates want to combat poverty traps by designing taxes and subsidies so that families do not lose out on women going to work. In many of the areas where these women live, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left have a significant majority of the votes, but little is being done to improve the situation. If contributions are to be paid, they should be made on an equal footing and the possibility of individualising the income limits of income from work in support of livelihoods should be reviewed. We also want to promote equal access to healthcare and care. Alliance-led county councils generally have shorter care queues than those governed by the Social Democrats. Access to care on time is also an important gender equality issue. Mr President, I would like to Men's violence against women is another important issue that needs more attention. On average, 17 women per year in Sweden are murdered by their current or former partner. Approximately 17,000 assault offences are reported where the perpetrator is in close relation to the victim. The senseless violence must stop. Limiting the freedom of women or men does not belong in our society, and therefore our answer must be crystal clear: we must not do that in Sweden. We're going to have laws that work and a police and social services that can intervene when necessary. Earlier today there was a debate on the metoo roll-call in this House. It is positive and very good that the question is highlighted, and my hope is that the attitude and how to behave towards each other will change for the better. I don't want all these important testimony to be forgotten. The Moderates spend more money than the Red-Greens on the judiciary – on the police and the courts. This is where we make a real difference so that more notifications can go ahead and not be put on high or written off. Sweden's prosperity is very much based on everyone working whether you are a man or a woman. In the middle of the past century, when public schooling was introduced, the Swedes became much freer. Other important aspects for greater equality in society are education and economic freedom. It gives free individuals who are not dependent on, for example, another person, still usually a man, for economic reasons. There are many women in Sweden who felt free only when they retired, after they had been dependent throughout their lives on their husband's income and economy. The Moderates' proposal on education requirements for newly arrived adults is extremely important for a more equal society that improves its employability. Anyone who is healthy and able to work should of course work. The government sometimes threatens with a compulsory law on quotas on company boards if the distribution does not improve. The issue of equality between women and men often ends up in a discussion on quotas in political contexts. I understand that the government has good reasons in its faith to force such legislation. But I don't think any woman in this country wants to sit on a board just because of her gender, but you want to sit there because you have the best skills. It is interesting that the Social Democrats and the Left often propose legal requirements for quotas in the field of business. Let's take a look at what it looks like in the union. That is not a pretty sight, Mr President. I have raised this issue in the debate on gender equality for several years, but there has been no improvement in the union. The Federation Board of Buildings includes Johan, Lars, Patrik and Jim – 100 per cent men. That is how it has looked every year. Previously, a woman was adjunct to the Building Board, as a youth representative. Now she's replaced with a Fredrik. And indeed, Mr President, it is a man. It doesn't look good for the movement. It would be better to clean your own house before threatening a quota law. In this context, I can mention that the moderate parliamentary group consists of almost half women and half men, without mandatory quotas. Finally, I would like to point out that Sweden, which is the world's most equal country, has a bit to go to total gender equality in terms of economic equality and values. Swedish women work full-time to a greater extent than before. At the same time, however, they spend more time on unpaid work at home, and they provide a majority of the care days for sick children or relatives. We also know that women suffer more from stress and are sicker. There, policies must be much better, so that both men and women can combine family, work and leisure time. The Moderates want to invest extra in improving the psychosocial working environment. Unfortunately, women are often sickened because of it. The Alliance's work line has increased the conditions for economic equality. The drive to work has been strengthened, especially for women, who are over-represented among low and middle-income earners. That policy now wants to lure the government back. Instead, the Moderates want to continue to strengthen the drive for jobs by reducing taxes on labour with a focus on those with the lowest incomes. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, all individuals should be able to design their lives, regardless of gender. Gender should not be an obstacle to becoming what you want. It is therefore important that we stand up for equality and put it before religion or cultural rules that run counter to an equal society. In Sweden, you should be able to become exactly what you want, regardless of the gender or thickness of your wallet. The Moderates make a difference, because we work with gender equality for real.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-840	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the AU1 report. We have our own practice; if possible and if we believe that the government's priorities are not only wrong, but also directly harmful, we are constantly running our course in terms of allocation of funds. And here it is possible. Here we lie under the established framework. We also believe that the government's efforts in some respects are directly detrimental to the country. The idea is that we should first debate gender equality. So I will start there. However, since I am the sole representative of these issues and spokesperson on both issues, I will probably also have to deal with integration and measures for the establishment of new arrivals. Gender equality has often been taken for granted in Sweden, not least in everyday conversation. When I wrote our committee motion on the subject of gender equality for this parliamentary year, I just started with the fact that it is something that is often taken for granted. In recent months, the issue has been highlighted in a way that many did not believe would happen so quickly. We know that gender equality problems persist, in addition to the fact that gender equality problems are added, changed and take different forms all the time. Fundamentally, gender equality means different things to different people in many ways. For my party and for me it has always been obvious that the foundation we strive for is that my gender should not play any role whatsoever. I never want to be counted as a group just because I'm a woman. I never just want to be defined as a woman. I want to be defined by who I am and what I do. There's something I bring with me all the time. I have written about it and debated it very much. I took over the role of spokesperson for gender equality and that I define myself as a special feminist. There has been a lot of discussion about what it means. For me, unlike many others in this House, it may not always be self-evident that we will be distributed exactly equally around society just because we see each other as individuals and not along gender. Some differences in priorities may be due to a lot of different things. The important thing when we build gender equality policies is to ensure that we fight everything that depends on social structures, standards and mandatory situations. But then we have to focus on the problems, precisely on sources, and not get stuck in counting gender. The Swedish democrats are therefore primarily in favour of formal equality. No men or women, or those who define themselves somewhere in between or as neither – what one now sees as – should be treated differently because of gender, neither positive nor negative. It is the only way to ensure that we have the same value, that we are equal before the law and that we are safe and respected. Many figures have been reinforced in recent months. It is essential to take them into account and to worry about them. It has been said for years that more and more women feel insecure in our society and are changing their life patterns because of it. In the election campaign, I talked about the fact that every fifth woman... I think it was... allowed herself to be influenced and worried when she moved out alone in the evenings. Now there is more talk of one in four women. It was once said that one in ten didn't even go out if she didn't get company. That number has also risen. Sexual crimes are on the increase, and reports are on the increase. It has been highlighted for a long time that this would be due to an increased propensity to register. However, studies show that the propensity to notify has not increased. It's more like sunk. The penalty is far too low. And many women testify that they have met with distrust. We also know that an enormous proportion of cases notified are closed before the investigation has even begun. For the Swedish Democrats, this is a clear area where we put our efforts on gender equality. We want to increase resources for the judiciary, invest in reviewing legislation and provide the police not only with resources but also with tools to act. And the scales of punishment should be reviewed. We are also talking about reviewing the direct sex crime legislation, as a ban on contact. It is an aggravating circumstance if you are subjected to sexual harassment in the workplace, which many unfortunately suffer. This applies not least to service professions. Mr President, I would like to It is also a fact that the economic conditions are different for women and men, not least high up in the ages. Society is constantly evolving, and slowly but surely we are moving towards a more even distribution, both in terms of hours worked and wages. But there are definitely long backlogs. Women don't get to the ultimate positions of power. This may be because they do not yet feel that they have accumulated experience or that others do not think they have. There may be other reasons why they don't go to work. In fact, this may be due to discrimination. It goes without saying that efforts are needed here. For many years, the Swedish Democrats have invested in providing resources to increase the number of hours worked in the public sector, so that more can go up from involuntary part-time to full-time. It's such a step. We are also prepared to look at and review the distribution of income within families in order to make it easier, for example, to transfer pension points between the parties and thus even out. We are also the party that was the first to completely remove the so-called pensioner's tax, i.e. the difference between pay and pension. We are also making strong efforts to strengthen the guarantee pension. We know that it is mainly women who suffer from the lowest pensions in our country. It is in this way that we work, spread out across all areas of Parliament's expenditure and policy as a whole, not just with targeted efforts. When it comes to gender equality in this area of expenditure, there are things that we think are positive and things that we think are a little less good. We are among those parties that believe that the move of important initiatives and programmes to an equality agency is in danger of overturning rather than helping. That is why we propose to withdraw the support and stop the project of building the new gender equality authority and re-establishing funds where they are today, whether it be women's centres, women's shelters or whatever it may be. Efforts made and programmes under way should be allowed to continue to grow and do their important work. In addition, we want to reinforce the special measures for equality between women and men by 50 million in order to further invest in women's peace. We want to expand on-call activities, but not just focus on women's shelters. There are, in fact, problems that affect in different ways and have different characteristics. When it comes to honour-related violence and oppression, the mistake is often made to believe that it is just another form of men's violence against women. We see a form of patriarchal structures there too, but that is another kind of problem. In these cases, special skills must also be available. In the debate this morning, we pointed out that men can also be subjected to violence in close relations. This is an issue which, unfortunately, is far too rarely taken seriously. There too, we want special support to be developed, to be extended and reviewed. Unfortunately, gender equality problems do not only affect women, but also affect men. I am sorry to say because, of course, no one should be affected. You have to look at the question widely. I believe that we are the party that does so, consistently throughout our policy. We look after problems, we don't look at gender. But if we see problems based on gender, it is obviously a factor in how to deal with them. This does not mean that problems that strike the other way should be ignored. This does not mean that the solutions should only be directed at one sex. Mr President, I would like to A few brief words even about efforts to combat segregation and efforts for the establishment of new arrivals. Year after year I have stood here and both of these areas have been covered. That's the way it is today. Whether it's basically about equality or anti-discrimination or against segregation, we should be seen as individuals and have equal opportunities whatever we are. Unfortunately, major efforts are still being made on targeted measures. The Alliance parties have a joint special opinion proposing a new type of establishment, new special jobs. There's no guarantee it would work this time. The government proposes that resources be allocated to a delegation for segregation, without clear directives. We do not really know what this money will be used for. The whole opposition believes that this is not reasonable. Some objections are justified, yet resources should be invested in this delegation without knowing what the money is going to do. For me, it is obvious – just as it has always been – that we want to reach a society where we see each other for who we are and where we are treated equally and respectfully, then politics cannot do the opposite. Then politics cannot treat people differently based on their background, their gender or whatever one might think would be an appropriate basis. Politics cannot be treated differently, then society will also be treated differently. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I call for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-871	Mr President, I would like to This autumn something has happened. Women stopped being silent and ashamed of what we were exposed to. A tidal wave has blown up the floodgates. A tidal wave of stories pours forth during the hashtag # metoo, one more disgusting than the other. Women step forward and talk about abuse and violations they have suffered. This applies to women from all parts of society of all ages. It's both old and new stories. Silence has been broken and the stories have become known. A lot of women finally dare to tell me. Because when we joined together and got power from each other, it became possible. The oppressive structures have been made visible. The voices heard this summer that it only applies to men of other ethnic or cultural backgrounds have been silenced. All the calls have shown that there is no part of society that is protected. The culture of silence is broken and the changes must continue. Our society should be better than this. Everyone has a responsibility and must act to stop violations, abuse, attitudes, oppressive structures and power games. Policy has a particular responsibility, through legislation, prevention and resources, to respond to what is now no longer hidden. And we have a responsibility to lead the way because autumn's tidal wave does not ebb out but leads to change for real. The National Centre for Women's Peace is a hugely important knowledge bank and a resource in this work. The women's rights line where women who have been abused can be helped is also very important. The Kvinnofridslinjen receives about 90 calls per day – before metoo. For many years NCK has worked with research, support, education and information on violence against women. One in five women has ever been subjected to sexual violence. Unfortunately, NCK has spent the last few years defending its existence. The government wants to dismantle the operation and transfer the mission to the new gender equality agency. With such a move, what has already been built is demolished, so you have to start over. On the contrary, the Center Party wants to develop its activities and build on what it already has. The work against honorary culture at Östergötland County Administrative Board and the work against trafficking and prostitution in Stockholm County Council should remain and continue to develop where they already exist today. All brave stories and testimony must now be translated into a workshop. It is everything from preventive work to women's and girls' shelters that must have stable funding, to the judiciary that must not give priority to investigations and to a new sex crime law where consent and negligence must be imposed. On 11 November 2004, the government signed its signature under the previous sex crime legislation. The Center Party was already trying to obtain the consent requirement, but there was no response to it among the other parties. Now the other parties have caught up, and we welcome that. The new requirements of the legislation will not solve everything, but it is an important mark. Together with a more qualified sex and cohabitation education where pornography is also discussed, a new consent culture can be built. Democratic rights, economic freedom and physical integrity are all three important dimensions in order to achieve an equal society. Mr President, I would like to The area of expenditure that we are debating today covers not only gender equality but also integration. I am debating both parts on behalf of the Center Party. The Swedish economy is doing well and our prosperity is growing, but not everyone gets the same chance. Sweden is a two-tiered country. Almost 1 million people are in exclusion today. The division of labour markets is one of Sweden's biggest challenges. On the one hand, there is a large group, mainly composed of well-educated people in the middle of life, where unemployment is largely non-existent. On the other hand, there are people who have never had the opportunity to establish themselves, especially new arrivals – especially foreign-born women and young people in exclusion – but there are also people with disabilities. The difference in employment between domestic and foreign born in Sweden is among the western world's highest. With the extensive immigration that has taken place in Sweden in recent years, this is a key challenge. Getting the growing group of people who sometimes lack both education and experience into work requires a series of necessary and thorough reforms. Thresholds to the labour market need to be reduced through lower costs for jobs and entrepreneurship in general, both through new forms of contract and a lower tax burden. Matching needs to be improved by letting in a variety of employment intermediaries, and for those who are most difficult to enter, it must be possible to start their first job with an initial lower salary and then work up the wage ladder. It must be possible for more people to start their careers at a lower salary, which then increases in line with experience. The Center Party, together with the Alliance, has presented a joint job reform: entry jobs. This means a simplified form of employment that applies to new arrivals during the first five years in Sweden and to young people up to 23 years without complete upper secondary education. We have been blamed for many things during the journey. Now that the social partners have finally presented initiatives in this direction, we can see that, after all, there is a recognition that wage costs can be an obstacle. Many details remain before the proposal is in place, and it is remarkable that some sectors and companies are excluded. Job-creating companies have been shut out instead of being involved in this work. At the same time, the Center Party is pushing for lower employers' contributions to further lower the threshold for the first job. We want to abolish the employer's contribution during the first two years of work to give more people the opportunity to enter the labour market and get a job. This would benefit groups such as newly arrived refugees, people with limited educational background, young people and people with disabilities who are currently unemployed. Furthermore, it is important to have rules and benefit systems that encourage people's driving forces to work. A prerequisite for breaking the division is that people in exclusion actively try to seek their way from there. Insurance and benefit systems must therefore have clear deadlines, and those who start working should also benefit from it. The fact that rules prevent access to work is particularly clear for asylum seekers. Today, the basic rule is that a person without a residence permit is not allowed to work. Exemptions can be granted, but both the regulated and the practical obstacles are high. The Center Party wants to reverse this and let the basic rule be that all asylum seekers are allowed to work. In addition, practical obstacles to working and facilitating the transition from asylum to labour migration must also be removed by reviewing, among other things, the difficulties of opening bank accounts and obtaining a bank ID. We're in the middle of a boom. Companies need labour. It is ready to reorganise in the workplace in order to bring in people with lower qualifications. But then the match has to work. The Public Employment Service has then chosen – when a workshop is really needed – to make an organisational change where all the force has turned inwards and to end the collaboration with a number of complementary actors. I have to say that it is a very strange priority, and it is the new arrivals who are at risk of paying the price. Since, at the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that of the Center Party, we wish to refrain from taking part in the decision today and to present a formal counter-proposal regarding the distribution of appropriations in Category 13. The Center Party's budgetary options should be seen as a coherent package where some or all of the elements cannot be broken out and treated in isolation. Mr President, I would like to Inequality and oppression are like stubborn weeds: As soon as we stop clearing it grows again. Even if we're experiencing a paradigm shift with metoo, we can't let go. It is everyone's responsibility never to stop twitching weeds. And don't forget that the roots will be included, even if they are hidden underground.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-896	Mr President, I would like to I shall not be so tedious, for several reasons – my vote and the debate as a whole. I'm still a little curious. I often have a great deal of respect for Annika Qarlsson and the Center Party when talking about women's issues. Many important initiatives are usually highlighted. That is why I am somewhat confused about the distribution of appropriations in the motion, even if you do not reserve your time. On the one hand, everything that has been added to the Equality Agency is withdrawn. There we have a similar line of reasoning from Swedish democrats. On the other hand, 76 1⁄2 million are also drawn from the special gender equality measures that include the National Centre for Women's Peace and many of the other initiatives that Annika Qarlsson usually highlights. I am a little confused about how one has reasoned when, on the one hand, one highlights the important work being done, on the other hand, pulls in so much support.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-901	Mr President, I would like to The aid granted to NCK, the County Administrative Board Stockholm and the County Administrative Board Östergötland is unchanged. Now I do not know purely budgetaryly where it has ended up, but we still have the same money as before for those activities.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-903	Mr President, I would like to It is below the envelope Special measures for equality between women and men, which are among other things where they are supported. I see that there is a small increase of 7 million, and then there are major cuts to that particular appropriation as a result of, as you write in your motion, a previous increase in appropriations. You don't define it more clearly. Is it referring to what many have been fighting for for a long time, to permanent and to expanding the measures? If so, does it not consider that there is a need for further support, for example, to extend both on-call activities, lines to which one can turn and all the important work that is being done around our country? However, it is a significant sum that we want to reduce, and if we take away what we are increasing, we are talking about a reduction of 89 million without any clear justification than a previous increase in funding.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-906	Mr President, I would like to The change that we are making in the budget is that we do not approve of the transfer of money that has taken place to the gender equality authority in Gothenburg. There has been a lot of searching to see where it was, what we have left in the budget. If I remember correctly, it was still under the Ministry of Education's spending area. The initiatives we are talking about regarding NCK, Länsstyrelsen Stockholm and Länsstyrelsen Östergötland are unchanged. It is unchanged to these units and thus no increase in this budget. However, we are talking about it for next year. Even from us, it is announced in the budget.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-909	Mr President, I would like to We're going to kill the Jews, they were chanted in Arabic in Malmö this weekend. This is filmed. You can look at it yourself. A great mob with several hundred people is chanting: We will kill the Jews! The next day there is a fire at the synagogue in Gothenburg. They attacked with burning objects when young people were having a party. Two hours ago there was news on Swedish Radio that something similar seems to have happened in Malmö. I believe that this also concerns the establishment and the labour market-oriented part of integration. We have to admit that we have very large, almost brutal, integration problems in Sweden, in any case with regard to some aspects of it. Issues relating to values and the importance of not only establishing oneself in Sweden by going to work but also on a valuation level must be emphasised even more in our country. We must show that we can not only talk about but also maintain a zero tolerance to hatred, extremism and violence, otherwise we will never be able to cope with the huge wave of refugee immigration and other immigration that we have had in recent years. The Jews are really a vulnerable minority all over the world, and what has happened in Sweden is just a mirror of what is happening in other countries. When violence kicks up in the Middle East, there are protests around the world, then things get out of hand and people commit attacks. That is totally unacceptable! From the Liberals' side, we also believe that if a person is convicted of hate crimes in Sweden and is not a Swedish citizen, one should try expulsion. Otherwise, the practice is to do so if a person is sentenced to a crime that gives a year's imprisonment. There are attacks on other groups too. I recently visited asylum seekers living in Arboga. They are all LGBT people, but they have not been able to stay in other accommodations. One person had had to change accommodation five times because he had been attacked and harassed, another person had been pushed up against the wall while showing clips on when IS people are HIVing people from the third or fourth floor of residential buildings in Iraq and so on. So it wasn't Jews in that case, it was LGBT people. In Eastern Småland, an article recently described how Christian asylum seekers are terrified of Islamists at their accommodations and so on. Mr President, I would like to We debate the way into the labour market very often. We have a slightly different view of this with regard to entry wages and other things. However, I think we are becoming far too narrow if we look only at the economic aspect and the entry into the labour market. We must combine this with much clearer and much more determinedly upholding fundamental democratic values of tolerance, democracy and so on. We also see a growing ultra-right that is gap-necked and roaring and makes it difficult to meet the challenges we face. It is partly nourished by integration problems, and it also makes it difficult to solve them, because it completely polarises the whole climate of discussion in society, which makes it scarcely possible to have a serious, solution-oriented discussion on these issues. We have a task, I think. I would like to emphasise this very much, Mr President. I think that all of us politicians who are in the middle of politics, based on a stable democratic foundation and have a pragmatic attitude towards resolving issues have a very great responsibility to keep all extreme ideologies short and really stand up to make our integration work. The Jewish group is very small. But here we have a responsibility to protect all people in Sweden. The judiciary, too, and so on, have a responsibility. This is to be expected from our legal society, and this applies in particular to vulnerable minorities. But this question is basically also about our country having to show that it is the Swedish legal society that applies. It is our laws and regulations that must apply throughout Sweden. We cannot allow small popes, criminal gangs or juvenile thugs to advance the positions in the public space and start to dominate our urban environment, café environments or other environments out in certain areas, that library staff do not dare to be there and so on. How, then, is that to be dealt with, Mr President? It is about the role of school and much more, but it is also about the labour market. If people do not have a job to go to and are driven into long-term dependency on benefits, it leads to poverty, stigmatisation and a feeling of exclusion. Children can grow up in areas where they may not know a single person who has a regular job. It wears down confidence in Sweden in these areas, but it also creates idleness, and it opens the way for many other things – social problems, crime and so on – that follow in the tracks. Then, I think, we need to think in the Swedish parliament and especially in our committee, the Labour Market Committee, about how we should deal with the first time people have in Sweden, what we call the start-up period. I want to be very humble there. We wanted to create a strong job focus from the Alliance, and we moved the establishment to Arbetsförmedlingen. It didn't work out perfectly. I'm the first one to admit it. I find it difficult to see that it would be better for the municipalities to take that responsibility back. The employment agency must be reformed or closed down and started up in some new form, but one must also look at how strong the Swedish establishment process is. It is highly authority-oriented, and it is very heavy in the sense that it focuses strongly on the individual becoming almost some kind of passive client toward the public. That's not good. We need a greater role for civil society, I believe, and also a greater role for business in order to make the integration process work better. Mr President, I would like to We refrain from taking part in the decision by the Liberals. This is due to budgetary issues relating to budgetary motions, framework decisions and other matters.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-926	Mr President, I would like to It is in many ways liberating to hear the Liberals and Fredrik Malm today say a lot of what I have said over the years – there has been far too much focus on work in the discussion about when to count as integrated. It's been too one-sided. But I still hear a little the same thing. It is said that it has been difficult enough to get people into work. At the same time, it is strongly emphasised that it is precisely when you get fully engaged that the integration process starts. I really just want to ask you one question. How do you view the fact that having just one job is often not enough? The labour market as such has, in itself, been very segregated as a result of the special solutions and subsidies initiated, particularly by the Alliance. There are evidences of this from various parts of the country. I hear it almost every time I meet people. Even if you have mixed professions and people with mixed backgrounds, you work in different teams on different occasions and still do not meet each other on a daily basis. It is good to realise that integration is much broader than having a job, but I still hear very little about how it is thought that the basis for these everyday meetings could be built, in addition to referring to any civil organisations and saying that we have to do something about it.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-930	Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals have stressed for many years how important it is that we strengthen the values on which our democracy and secular and relatively equal society should rest – in any case, our society is often more equal than the countries from which people flee. As far as we are concerned, this is self-evident. But from that perspective, you have to see how these issues are connected. If we do not succeed in breaking the high unemployment rate among people born abroad, it will also be very difficult, on a valuation level, to make integration work better. The latest figures from Arbetsförmedlingen show that 3.9 per cent of the native population in Sweden is unemployed. The corresponding figure for the foreign-born population is 22%, if I remember correctly. There's a terrible difference, you have to admit. There are, of course, a lot of reasons for this, but only the fact that it is, I mean, will make it more difficult to cope with the other parts of integration.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-932	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting that gender equality was now highlighted. I missed it a little bit in the speech. But that's another question. I do not really think that I received an answer from Fredrik Malm to my question. Yes, of course it is problematic that there are so many differences in how many people have a job to go to and not. But my question specifically related to the fact that there is no guarantee that an integration process will be started just because you have a job if the labour market as such is segregated – if those who have a Swedish background or have entered society and speak fluently Swedish work in a workplace while others work in subsidised employment or precarious employment and if you divide the labour law depending on which countries people come from because groups still take conflicts into our society. I still have an overconfidence in the fact that integration results from people getting a job, whereas this is rarely the case. Of course, it's even harder if they don't even have a job. Then there are even more factors affecting, but I still hear the overbelief. I wonder what you want to do about it and how you want to address that problem. It is not obvious that just because you have a job you meet the rest of society. Perhaps it was one thing when our society consisted mainly of industrial work. People could come in and work side by side at the assembly line with those who have lived in Sweden for a long time, just as my father came into Swedish society. Today, our labour market looks quite different. It is not enough to enter the labour market, because it is so extremely segregated there. What do you want to do to get to the everyday meetings needed to start an integration process?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-937	Mr President, I would like to It is not just the labour market that is segregated. So is the housing market. It follows that we also get a school segregation in many places in Sweden. I think you can do a lot. From a political point of view, care must be taken to break the segregation that exists at school. In some places, children go to other schools in other areas. This has been done in Örebro, for example. I am no stranger to discussing that it can be done on a larger scale in Sweden, for example. When it comes to the labour market, it is more complicated by the fact that many newcomers have lower levels of education. If they get a job, they get a lot of jobs with a lower qualification level. These jobs are perhaps more dominated by people who, for example, are born abroad. I can imagine that the way into the labour market does not necessarily mean that people are fully integrated. A lot of this is a bit of what I talked about in my speech. This does not contradict the fact that it is always better to have a job and an income than to be forced to live on benefits. Then this is also a matter of time. I found old papers at my mother's house the other day, I can tell you. My grandfather graduated from Stockholm School of Economics in 1941. I counted on the list of those who received the diploma then that there were 88 people, of which 2 were women – 2 out of 88. Somewhere looks better now. It also has to do with greater social mobility and the fact that educational efforts and much more have enabled people to pry out of the contexts in which they find themselves, to tear down class barriers and other things. I think that in the long term is what is most necessary to make it work.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-943	Mr President, I would like to I am alone from the Christian Democrats and will debate both gender equality and integration in one speech. Please excuse the fact that it is a little longer than if we had two people. I will start with the question of integration. It is a challenge that I think everyone across party boundaries agrees on is a very important issue. Despite a prolonged boom, exclusion and permanence for a growing group in society is increasing. In 2018, Arbetsförmedlingen estimates that the proportion of registered unemployed with a vulnerable position on the labour market will be 78 per cent of all registered unemployed. It is therefore about 80% of those who count the unemployed who are a particularly vulnerable group. Some are people with disabilities, others are young people without upper secondary education. But the group of people with foreign background in particular has become the majority of those registered as unemployed. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, the labour market is at risk of being divided between domestic and foreign born. The unemployment rate among natives is now down to 4.6%, as I understand it, and is decreasing all the time. The unemployment rate of foreign born children is up to 21.6 per cent and continues to increase quite strongly according to the Employment Service. Extraordinary efforts are now needed to get newcomers to work. The relatively high wage level is an obstacle for many who come and do not know the language. They may not always understand how Swedish working life works, and the level of education may be low for those who are trying to get into the Swedish labour market. We in the Alliance have come to the conclusion that you should invest in something called entry jobs, a simplified employment for new arrivals. We propose to reduce the cost of hiring a person with a lack of experience or short education, both for new arrivals and for young people up to 23 without a upper secondary school degree. This will mean that they will receive a salary amounting to 70 per cent of the current starting salary in the industry up to a ceiling of SEK 21,000 in gross salary per month. This means that 30% of working time is thought to be spent on learning work or training. The protection of labour rights is equivalent to a probationary period of two years which after it is transferred to an open-ended employment. The employment may be held for a maximum of three years. The employer's contribution is abolished for three years within the framework of the form of employment, and the form of employment can be combined with a new start job. Mr President, I would like to The proposals that have now landed at the government table from trade unions and employers on start-up jobs, as they call it, will cost the state a great deal of money. Being able to make a living on your own is probably the goal for all of us. For example, with the Alliance's proposal, the person who earns 13 300 after tax receives $11,000. It is more than a supply subsidy that provides about $1,000 a month. People have it during a period of education and may eventually enter a permanent job for which they qualify. We can look at the model with start-up jobs. There we are talking about an initial salary of SEK 19 000. It is said that the employer will pay 8 000 SEK and that the government will then contribute what is left if the tax had been deducted. Thus 4 000 kroner will disappear into the air, what would have been tax, and so the state will account for 7 000 kroner. Then you get 15,000 kroner. It is 4 000 crowns that have disappeared in a magic trick, quite simply. What we are proposing is that people receive a salary and pay taxes. The state is not involved; employers and employees should be allowed to regulate this themselves. It is a rather simple model that reduces bureaucracy and hassle. At the same time, we see that the start-up jobs would have a rather complicated management. It will also depend on whether or not the State has the means to contribute. Mr President, I would like to The bottom line of this is that the Alliance's entry job is clearly preferable. A basic condition for more new arrivals to get to work is that it pays to move from exclusion to work. If we do nothing now, we risk having a great alienation for people who cannot enter the Swedish community. So how do we start with integration? If we go earlier, before people have become so-called new arrivals out in the municipality, we have the asylum application period. We Christian Democrats have for some time proposed something we call an asylum programme with various integration efforts from day one. We think it should be a compulsory programme for six months that people should submit to when they go into Sfi with social orientation right from day one. We also think that people should have organised employment from day one. It can be about being in the housing and doing something, working in an organization, in a municipality or in the regular labour market. Together, this will form about 40 hours a week that people should be in some form of employment. Previously, the Migration Agency had a pretty good programme for internships for asylum seekers. Then people began to get into work. Unfortunately, the government closed the operation. By then 13 300 people had received internships only in 2016. The companies appreciated the opportunity to see if the people could fit for the jobs they had to offer. It was relatively simple and freed from the bureaucracy of the Public Employment Service. We feel it is a pity that the Migration Agency's opportunity to organise internships was removed. A further issue that we Christian Democrats have raised in our budget motion concerns EBO, the legislation on own living. We see that overcrowding is increasing. People sleep in shifts. People are exploited by people who want to make money by having many residents in one apartment. We believe that the government must introduce housing standards to allow asylum seekers to choose their own accommodation. Mr President, I would like to Discrimination is also included in this report. In November 2016, the Government presented a national plan against racism and similar forms of hostility and hate crime online. The national plan's overall objective includes a concerted, effective and strategic work against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime in Sweden, as it says. The plan identifies activities that should work specifically against aphrophobia, anti-Semitism, antiziganism, Islamophobia, racism against Sami, homophobia and transphobia as recipients of funds to be allocated. That's good. However, according to the Crime Prevention Council, the most significant increase has been reported with cristophobia, i.e. 140 per cent, which corresponds to approximately 390 cases. We believe that the government in its national plan should also work to counter this type of hate crime. The violence in asylum homes against Christians and those who have converted has not been taken seriously. They are a particularly vulnerable group. The government is working today for special support for LGBTQ people in asylum homes but not for Christian converts. We find that unfortunate. At the same time, we can see the spread of anti-Semitism in society. Various groups have started to act increasingly actively in Sweden, which makes many Jews today feel very worried. The attacks we have seen in recent days on various Jewish buildings, as well as calls for threats to and murder of Jews, are extremely serious. This is something that the government and we must all take very seriously. Now I come to the issue of equality. This morning, in this House, we had a debate on the so-called Metoo call against sexual violence. The government says it wants to protect all women's rights. They say you're a feminist government. At the same time, however, we Christian Democrats can say that in the budget that we are now debating and adopting, the government is saying that it wants to close down important activities and instead spend the money on a new equality authority. The victims are the National Women's Centre at Uppsala University Hospital, where rape victims are received. They also have an important hotline. They also take money from the County Administrative Board in Stockholm, where there is important work against human trafficking and prostitution. It was also high time that the special competence team against honour violence, in Östergötland, would be closed down. Now we have managed to stop this temporarily, but the risk is that the team will be shut down when the government makes decisions on future budgets after the special evaluation later on. We Christian Democrats propose that coordination on gender equality should be organised in a different way than through a gender equality authority. We propose a special delegation for gender equality and allocate 13 million to start one. This is something that came out in the referrals from, among other things, Statskontoret. This means that these well-functioning activities do not have to be destroyed. Instead, one gets a unit that can stick together and ensure that the work is well coordinated. We see that we need to coordinate gender equality work, but we believe that we do not need to create an equality authority for 80 million SEK for this purpose. Instead, we need a delegation that can coordinate and work with evaluation. Finally, I would like to mention the honour-related violence, of which we are all aware. Too little is made concrete. We have a concrete proposal. We believe that we should introduce a forced maritime unit of the same kind as we have in the UK. We have set aside alternative funds in our budget for this and put it under the police's national operational department. We believe that we must not leave all these girls and women at risk of forced marriage. They are often carried away to other countries. We need clearer tools than we have today. With this, I would like to refer to our specific opinion.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-968	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me thank you for your happy conclusion. We also have many initiatives relating to honour-related violence and oppression, which unfortunately is much bigger than just forced marriages. There's a lot to do. But that is not why I asked to speak. My question comes in a little in the area of migration. Mrs Pethrus referred to a number of measures and initiatives which they wanted to be available from day one to those who are asylum seekers in the country. I'm thinking a little about how to prioritize when you want to make a lot of bets for people you haven't even investigated if they have reasons to stay in the country or not. At the same time, it is a party that wants to reintroduce, among other things, extremely distressing circumstances as a basis for staying. In several ways, it aims to increase the possibilities for people to stay permanently in the country. Do you see the risks of creating incentives and opening up the pressure on people seeking asylum in our country, first on paper, but then through these various efforts and measures being allowed to stay in the country because they have started rooting, as is usually said? Is it not more reasonable to allocate the resources to enable the Migration Agency to deal quickly, legally and properly with the cases? Basic information should be provided – the asylum seekers should know which country they have come to and what applies in Sweden – but otherwise any efforts should only be started when a case has been completed.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-970	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the question! We do not think that this needs to stand against every other. The alternative is that people who come here can sit passively at the asylum reception or accommodation without doing anything. You don't have any demands on them, they just sit and wait. When we have been out in asylum homes, we have been able to see that this is completely wrong. I mentioned here that we Christian Democrats are proposing a six-month programme for integration into asylum accommodation. I hear that people who work at asylum homes actually think it should go on longer. They talk about twelve months, because it takes a long time to understand how Swedish society works. Then one might say: Some of these will be expelled. Then, of course, we must work towards faster handling of asylum cases. We cannot have the large number of asylum seekers we had in the past. There the Christian Democrats were out early. Already in the autumn of 2014, our former party leader Göran Hägglund had an article in which he said that we cannot continue with permanent residence permits, because we cannot separate ourselves from the rest of Europe. So he was early in saying that we can't have it this way, because then we get volumes that get way too big. If the Migration Agency has a reasonable time to handle the applications, so that they can be processed quickly, we believe that the asylum programme is important. Många has asylum reasons and is allowed to stay in Sweden. We have come to the conclusion that this is important. Inaction during the asylum period is not good.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-974	Mr President, I would like to We should probably not talk about who was early out to see risks with the politics that have been implemented in Sweden and what it leads to. I really thank you for your answer, but I'm still a little perplexed. If so, has it been envisaged that this might be temporary, until we reduce the length of proceedings? I know that the Christian Democrats to and from have talked about testing transit zones. Or does it consider it reasonable to devote quite a lot of resources to initiating programmes aimed at people staying more permanently in the country for people who do not even know whether or not to stay? Yeah, a lot of people stay. We have different opinions on the grounds. But I assume that many even with the policies of the Christian Democrats, given the signals that have been sent from our society, have no reason to stay. They may get it, given these programs and given the fact that the Christian Democrats are one of the parties that push for one to stay because of distressing circumstances, which is often linked to the fact that one has started rooting in the country. As I was into earlier: It is obvious that you should have to learn certain things. I know that the Christian Democrats in various forms have also made efforts to avoid being idle. It is, of course, bad and passivating. In addition, however, the purpose of the reception of asylum is, above all, to ensure protection during that time. When it comes to establishing oneself in society, it should be reserved for those who actually come to stay in the country for a long time, permanently, knowing that it is a fact that it is people who intend to become part of our society. I still don't really see how to justify this kind of bigger investment before a case is even tried.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-979	Mr President, I would like to That is a very reasonable question put by Paula Bieler. Is it reasonable to have this so early, before the person has been granted a residence permit? We think there is a good idea in that. Of course, we want the Migration Agency to be quicker at dealing with this – let's say three months! But it's still three months. We sometimes talk about the sick leave process. It's very fast to be knocked out by sitting idle. We believe that it is extremely destructive for people who have come to Sweden to sit in passivity this month after month. We've had the parliamentary investigation service investigate what it costs. It's not very expensive. It can also be seen as an advance of SFI, for example. It's something they'll read later. But if they have done a great deal already during the asylum period, they have won a lot. Then during the start-up phase there will be a focus on work. How do you have time for SFI? Why don't you start with that? Today there is a lot of volunteer work. It is voluntary to pursue social orientation. Participation in SFIs and language cafés is voluntary. We mean it should be mandatory. Everyone's going through this. One must from day one understand what the values in society are. We believe that it is worthwhile starting with social orientation already during the asylum application period.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-981	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with Category 13, which deals with gender equality and integration. My party colleague Annelie Karlsson will talk about integration. I'll take the equality. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that we in Sweden have a feminist government that is governed by the Social Democrats, because then proposals are put forward that promote equality and equality. In our draft budget, we give more to women than to men, more to those who need it most and a little less to those who have it best. But when Sweden is doing well, it should benefit everyone, and so it is in our draft budget for 2018. I will mention some of our proposals that are particularly good for women and gender equality. There's more spending on welfare. It is an effort on equal care and maternity care. There is increased maintenance support for single parents. That's an increase in child benefit. These are improvements in women's working environment and working conditions. It is an effort on equal health and on women's shelters. Men's violence against women is to cease. These are efforts to speed up the establishment of women born abroad. It is reduced tax on pensioners and increased housing allowance. It is continued efforts towards long-term work against honour-related violence and oppression. As you can hear, there are many proposals that we are making – even the voice is failing. Add to this previous changes and initiatives that I do not have time to tell you about today. All policy areas need to be analysed in order to benefit both women and men and both girls and boys. That is how we change our society and can conduct a gender equality policy that makes a difference and is good for everyone. Mr President, I would like to Gender equality has been a policy area of its own since 1972. It was carried out under the leadership of our Social Democratic Prime Minister Olof Palme. Many important decisions have been taken historically. These include, for example, special taxation, parental leave, childcare, security insurance in the event of unemployment and illness, etc. These are political decisions that have been and are still important for women's ability to influence their own lives, to earn their own income, to reconcile work and family life and to choose whether they want to live with their partners. The fight for equality must continue. Right now it's the power of #metoo that's changing our society. That it is happening right now and is so big in Sweden I think is because we have come a bit in our gender equality work and that we are currently ready for a change. Many horrendous testimony from women and girls has been highlighted. There is evidence of the gravest abuse where justice systems can and should go in and perhaps should already have taken a stand. But often it is silenced. It is not notified, or despite reports, there will be no action, whether it is a criminal offence or a sexual harassment. There is also much talk about, for example, touching hands or sexist language, which is not punishable to any great extent even if it is probably so offensive. Some events have taken place in modern times. Some events took place when women were little girls. Several have testified that the perpetrator was a relative, a friend, or even one's own father. There are many brave people who have now dared to share their stories. Women and girls today know that it was not and is not right and that it is not and was not their fault. It is important that we say that too. This arouses strong feelings in most people. For many, it is difficult when the wounds are torn up again. Many feel a disappointment at how this was handled in the past. It was not uncommon for it to be silenced and for a woman or a girl to hear: You have to count on it. You'll have to accept that. Instead of putting the blame where it actually belongs, the victim was shamed: by the male perpetrator. Many professional groups have made calls – actors, journalists, police, politicians and more. I'm sure more people will. I am absolutely convinced that this occurs more or less in all occupational groups, but mostly in those occupational groups that are insecure. Since many of the violations and abuse occur in workplaces, it is important that the employer acquire knowledge, take action and take these violations and sexual abuse very seriously. It's not okay for girls to answer: It wasn't that bad. It's not okay for women to hear: You have to count on that if you want a career in this business. It is important not to reduce this, as it can both be criminal and is a major work environment problem that should not be talked away. You should report this and do something about the event. Secure employment, secure welfare systems and a salary that you can live on create better conditions and opportunities in adult life so that you dare to say and dare make demands to end sexual harassment and abuse. Girls and boys must e get good role models already as small and learn what is okay and not and be able to say stop. Knowledge and action are needed so that everyone takes responsibility for the vulnerability of girls and women. For the sake of our children, it is especially important that it is done by us parents, preschool, school, police and others. Mr President, I would like to Nothing could come as appropriate as a new gender equality agency next year. The agency's Director General Lena Ag is in place, and in January the agency will be inaugurated. The government has commissioned the agency to collect all testimony and petitions to look for more demands and suggestions that should be made from the Metoo. In this House, not all parties feel that an equality authority is needed, but I hope that more parties now realise how important it is. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Alliance Government's efforts on gender equality received criticism that it was not possible to follow the results or what benefit they received. There was no follow-up or evaluation. Most of it was in project form. It is important that you can follow and evaluate if the investment is good. In fact, we have decided in this House that equality policy should have six sub-objectives, which are:
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1000	. that men's violence against women should cease. Two of the targets have been new since last year. Gender equality policy is needed, and it is important to be able to measure and see whether the policies' efforts and decisions are made regardless of who controls the country. Mr President, I would like to I am proud that we Social Democrats are pushing gender equality policy in the right direction, despite opposition from many other parties in this House. We are not satisfied, however, because it cannot be as long as women have lower wages, have lower working conditions, have low pensions, become victims of violence in close relationships, have a worse working environment and get sick from their job. Women still take more responsibility for their homes and families, even so much as to reduce working hours or leave work prematurely. Nor is it good for boys to lag behind in school and perform worse and worse than peers, often girls. We must be able to put an end to sexual abuse and harassment. # Metoo testifies that we need more equality, because it's good for all of us. Then it is good that we have a feminist, Social Democratic-led government, which actually makes a difference.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1005	Mr President, I would like to There are certainly many things that I could have commented on to go into polemics, but I will try to have a slightly more constructive tone in this debate. I would like to ask two questions about legislation in the field of gender equality. One concerns child marriage. The new investigation was presented recently, and it has been said that the government is satisfied with the investigation and thinks that the proposals are good. I wonder whether Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg shares the view that several of the children's marriages that have been concluded abroad should continue to be excluded. The second issue concerns something I, Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg and several others have raised during the day, namely sexual harassment in the workplace. It is great that you want to invest in the responsibility of employers and the working environment as a whole. We, too, have a proposal that it should be considered an aggravating circumstance if it happens in the workplace, because it is particularly vulnerable. As a waitress and in other service professions you are extra exposed, because many take you for granted. We believe that at least it needs to be investigated whether it can be an aggravating circumstance when you are exposed to a role in the workplace and that this is counted as an additional factor. Is this something that the Social Democrats would like to review?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1009	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. Let me start with the issue of child marriage. No child should be forced to marry, whether in Sweden or any other country. That is my strong conviction. Children are children and should be allowed to be. We have government legislation here in Sweden. It is important that you decide for yourself when and with whom you want to marry. As far as sexual harassment at work is concerned, it is important that we have secure forms of employment. Then you dare lift this up. We know that there is a huge number of darkness, and this is nothing new. But at the moment, many women and girls dare to bring this up, and it is extremely important that those of us who are politically active also listen, take in and see what changes can be made. I know that two of the ministers met with the social partners last week. It was Åsa Regnér and Ylva Johansson. They looked at the demands of other LOs. It was about investing in health and safety at work, eliminating risky cooperation, providing support to victims, ensuring that the employer takes responsibility for preventing and abolishing fixed-term contracts. All of this is something that we Social Democrats are very much committed to. These are different ways of trying to prevent sexual abuse from taking place in the workplace.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1013	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg, for listing many other important measures that are good to take. However, I did not understand that I was fully answered any of my questions. Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg refers to the practice of authority and that it should be illegal to marry in Sweden with someone who is underage. That goes without saying. But I specifically asked about the marriages that take place abroad, which should nevertheless be considered approved when the people come to Sweden. It could be because they've turned 18. Perhaps it would be more reasonable to ensure in such cases that the persons still want to be married by remarrying them, not simply to accept that someone has previously been put in a vulnerable situation and had to accompany their husband here. It can be against your own will. According to the proposal, there will continue to be an exception for persons from countries who agree to marry from the age of 16. It's not as bad with 16 as with 6, 7 or 8, but it's still an age when, according to us, it should be illegal to marry because you're not yet of age. I find it strange that the proposal of the inquiry is to maintain this exception, and I still wonder how the Social Democrats justify that they think the proposals that have come forward are good. Nor did I get a concrete answer as to whether you are prepared to review the fact that it should be an aggravating circumstance when sexual harassment occurs in the workplace. You objectify the person further when you think: This is a waitress who is here for my pleasure. There are therefore additional factors involved in this case. Is this something that you might consider reviewing, in addition to all the other measures that I broadly welcome, albeit not always or in all forms? You can talk back and forth. Safe employment may also be something that makes some managers sit extra safe and dare to behave in a certain way. However, this is a completely different debate. There is much to do, and most of the measures we agree on. Now I ask specifically about aggravating circumstances.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1018	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to go into all the details of child marriage and the investigation into it. After all, the investigation is not handled by our committee, but by others. I do not know exactly where it is, how far ahead they have come or what the last discussion is about. To be quite correct, I refer to the committee concerned. Then there were special circumstances. Sexual abuse is just as terrible no matter where it happens. We need to get rid of them wherever they go. If there are to be serious grounds for abuse in a particular place, nothing we have discussed today is going on. However, if it is a small child, it is much more serious in that a child does not understand what it is about. The child needs confidence in the adult world about what is right and right. That is what I meant in my speech. Children need good role models. We must teach children what is right and what is right and what is wrong and what is right to say stop to. There we all have a responsibility, no matter where we are in society. Sexual abuse is something that we must, with all our efforts, prevent, whether through legislation or in the workplace. Everyone must shoulder their responsibilities wherever the abuse takes place. It's a crime that sets a deep mark on the victim. I dare say that most women have been subjected to sexual harassment or a grosser sexual crime.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1022	Mr President, I would like to It's the gender equality round now, and I'll take those questions with Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg, and Minister Ylva Johansson will not have those questions from me. The Metoo rebellion has meant a lot to all of us. We have all been awakened and see the need for action. You are proposing the creation of a gender equality authority. It's going to cost 80 million. To finance the 80 million, you do not take the money from anything else, but you choose to go to activities that work against sexual violence. You go to NCK in Uppsala, which works against rape. You go to the prostitution and human trafficking centre at the County Administrative Board Stockholm. You were in the government's proposal to close down the activities that work against honour violence. I find it difficult to understand the logic of you wanting to create an authority by taking from well-functioning activities to finance the new authority rather than taking the funds from elsewhere. I've been surprised. We are adding 13 million to the Gender Equality Delegation. We put back all the money that has existed before and that already exists today for NCK and the work against prostitution and human trafficking at Länsstyrelsen Stockholm. How can Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg think that the best way is to take money from concrete activities that work on the floor to support women who have been exposed to sexual violence in order to create a more administrative equality authority?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1028	Mr President, I would like to The operations of the County Administrative Board Östergötland must remain in place for several years. Then it will be evaluated. Those are facts. Earlier today it has been claimed that the Kvinnofridslinjen in Uppsala, which works well, will also disappear. But that's not the case. NCK in Uppsala has many important tasks. All this should not go away, but the overall responsibility will be transferred to the gender equality agency, which will be located in Gothenburg. The important thing about the Equality Agency is a little bit back in history. Then there was something called Jämo. That authority was a blowtorch in the field of gender equality in various activities run by policy instruments. The Authority checked whether or not political decisions were being made. Among other things, they looked at how municipalities handled employment conditions, full-time work and gender equality plans. When the agency was to be merged with the Equality Ombudsman, they were afraid that gender issues would be removed. We see today that gender equality work was lost in DO. For us Social Democrats, the work for an equal society is so vitally important that we want to invest in a gender equality authority that can review and keep track of the political decisions that have been made. It won't solve everything, but some.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1033	Mr President, I would like to This is almost an affront to all the women who have been helped and supported by these activities in Uppsala and Stockholm. The business in Östergötland was a compromise with the Liberals – if we are to be honest. You didn't intend to keep that business for yourselves. Some things will remain for all those who have needed, and continue to need, the support of these units, after the investigator has been around looking at what the business looks like in reality. It is good that we have understood what the activities look like. However, the fact remains that funds go from these activities to the new gender equality agency. We agree that there should be better coordination, but I find it difficult to understand the logic of taking from functioning activities and putting on a gender equality authority. I would like to try to ask a question about our proposal on the Forced Marriage Unit in the United Kingdom. I do not know how much Ann ‐ Christin Ahlberg has followed the work there, which is to help girls and women who are at risk of forced marriage abroad. There is a special unit working on these issues. I have previously had an interpellation debate with Morgan Johansson – it was well over a year ago – and he said he was interested in looking at that model. Does Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg know if there is anything going on in this area to set up such a business, so that we can specifically help those girls who are today afraid of being subjected to forced marriages so that there are resources and the kind of court order used in Britain? It is a very good model to have as a role model.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1038	Mr President, I would like to On the last concrete issue, I must refer to Morgan Johansson and the committee responsible for those issues. Our proposal is to set up an authority that systematically and coherently, in an effective way, will ensure that the gender equality policy that we have decided in Parliament is followed. This includes violence against women. I am absolutely convinced, and know, that both NCK and the County Administrative Board Östergötland have done a fantastic good job. It is not something that we want to break, but the overall responsibility will lie with the new equality authority. It is ultimately a question of the policy area being a small area. But the whole budget bill that we Social Democrats, together with the Left Party and the Green Party, have put forward benefits women and gender equality policy forward. The former alliance government did quite different things. It reduced taxes in a way that favored already rich men more than provided more opportunities for women and girls to succeed in our society. Now we see in black and white how we have shared our distribution policy. Women get more of our budget option, and men get a little less. But everyone's going to get some. Men, women and gender equality, with our budget option, will receive more than with the Alliance's proposals on what will benefit gender equality work. The Equality Agency will not solve everything, but it is a good start.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1043	Mr President, I would like to As early as this morning, we had reason to talk a lot about gender equality in this House thanks to the initiative of the Left Party for a topical debate on the metoo roll-calls. In this area of expenditure, I am also going to focus on gender issues. The debate this morning was a good debate that showed the determination that exists in this House – that we should do everything we can to change laws, structures and economic conditions to make Sweden an equal country. The debate showed that we are quite united behind what the Riksdag has previously stated: that the goal of gender equality policy is for women and men to have the same power to shape society and their own lives. Now we are going to debate the state budget, especially in the area of gender equality. The government states in the budget bill what it means that Sweden has a feminist government: that differences in living conditions and distribution of power and resources based on gender – often to the detriment of girls and women – are perceived as a social problem that can and should be countered, including through political decisions. In the area of expenditure, there are three specific points to be made. It is the creation of a gender equality authority, it is a reformed gender equality policy with new milestones and it is the establishment of a ten-year national strategy with broad and concrete efforts to prevent and combat men's violence against women. This is also the basis for a comprehensive, effective and long-term work for an equal society. After this morning's debate, I would really like to emphasise that it feels like we almost all have ambitions in the area of gender equality and want to see things happen – preferably now. The alliance government also made several efforts, but evaluations show that although it provided new knowledge and brought the work forward, there were no conditions for sustainable results. It is a clear structure that is lacking. The current organisation of gender equality policy is not appropriate because the mandate is scattered across a number of authorities, which makes coordination, follow-up and long-term planning difficult. A gender equality authority establishes a permanent structure at national level to enable the government to ensure that political priorities have an impact on the governance of authorities and activities. It is an important pool of forces, and I am pleased that it is now coming into being. Gender equality policy must be broad and include all aspects of society. Objectives and measurement of new areas therefore need to be complemented and developed. In addition to the objectives of equal distribution of power and influence, economic equality, equal distribution of unpaid home and care work and the cessation of violence against women by men, targets on equal education and health are now also added. It is important to make efforts in and evaluate in particular to ensure that the whole issue of gender equality is moving forward and in the right direction. The Government's national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women took effect in January 2017. It has four objectives: Enhanced and effective prevention of violence 中 improved detection of violence and stronger protection and support for women and children who are victims of violence
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1055	中 improved knowledge and methodology development. Unfortunately, the Metoo call has shown the overwhelming need for a concerted strategic work on these very issues, in which all the stories we have heard illustrate what is so far all of our shortcomings. However, with increased ambitions and more coordinated work focusing on a number of particularly important authorities, there is now reason to be hopeful that developments may move in the right direction. The county administrative boards receive a regional assignment, as well as the higher education institutions and the National Board of Health and Welfare. Mr President, I would like to Although it is precisely this report that we are debating, we must not forget that the state budget is about far more measures for equality than just those that are included here. I was going to mention some of them briefly. Gender mainstreaming is an important tool for increasing gender equality. This means that the gender perspective should be included in the broad policy design so that policies in all areas contribute to combating repressive gender norms and structures. The Government is working on this as well as gender budgeting, which has contributed to an even clearer gender perspective in the budget process. The government has implemented a number of reforms aimed at reducing disparities in income between different groups. However, differences in income between women and men continue to exist. Despite many years of work to achieve economic equality, there are still different conditions for women and men to come out, stay and develop in the workplace. One aspect of improving this picture is the development of an action plan for equal pay. I would also like to mention the assent legislation which is now on its way to Parliament's table. It has the opportunity to contribute to more convictions when abuse is committed but will also help with the important norm breaking work we have ahead of us in terms of how we all view abuse and what it will lead to consequences for the perpetrator. Mr President, I would like to Progress towards gender equality is in all parts too slow, despite positive developments in several respects. An important lesson must be learned from this autumn's call for men's violence against women. That is unacceptable, what we have now heard stories about, and it must be fought with all the means at its disposal. The goal is that Sweden should be an equal country, and that is where we only reach all together. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1062	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party's budget cooperation with the government is about getting a fairer Sweden. We saw the increase in inequality during the time of the bourgeois government. Now that you read the financial plan, you can see that it is those who have the least get the most. It reduces inequality in our society. At the same time, we know that it is not enough. We in the Left Party have achieved many important and good reforms in the budget. It is reforms that will make a difference for a great many people, reforms for equality and equality that primarily benefit women, strengthen welfare and improve opportunities for establishment. We have achieved the greatest investment in welfare in decades. Strengthening primary care with a focus on women, investing in maternity care, free mammography, more employees in elderly care, more employees in women's shelters, better rules for part-time stamping, a study on the impact of women's part-time work, raising skills in the judicial system in relation to men's violence against women, strengthening efforts for more qualified SFI teachers, strengthening validation of foreign education, money for skills mapping in asylum homes, language teaching in folk high schools, investing in the Kungälvs model in work against right-wing extremism, work against hate crimes and district police should be prioritised – and much more is available in this budget. Few of these reforms fall within the area of expenditure we are debating today. But it is, Mr President, in the great building of society – housing, welfare, the view of insurance and basic security – that important conditions for women's freedom and the establishment of newcomers are created. This is not done with bourgeois parties. This is not done with parties that want sick, unemployed and newcomers to pay for tax cuts for those who already have jobs. This is not done with those who want to make savings on the sick and the unemployed and reduce taxes on the richest, those who cut down on labour market training and want to reintroduce the lower time limit in health insurance, those who want to reduce entry wages and save on school, health care and care, and those who want to increase the gaps between the poor and the rich in society. That policy has been tested, Mr President, and there were no more jobs. On the contrary, unemployment increased under the bourgeois government. The left-wing party is therefore clearly behind the budget and therefore also the allocation we are discussing today. I would therefore like to start by calling for the proposal to be approved. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is a feminist party. This means that we want women and men and girls and boys to have equal rights and opportunities. Our feminist policy permeates all our political proposals and aims to achieve equality, because equality is not something that comes of itself. For us to have an equal society, political will and concrete proposals are needed. Feminist change is absolutely necessary and fully possible. Joint women's struggle has given us the right to vote, the right to abortion and sexual rights. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, but we still have a lot to do. Pay differentials, men's violence against women, discrimination and unpaid work at home remain major challenges for Swedish society. The Metoo roar, which was discussed in this House earlier today, shows with painful clarity how living conditions differ for men and women in Sweden. The Metoo movement is a revolution. We can't just move on as usual. In Sweden, over 70 000 women have given their testimony, and the stories continue to flow. They come from women in health care, school, defence, the media and commerce and in many other areas. No one can turn a blind eye to the extent of the problems. They cut through our entire society, and it's about men of all ages, backgrounds and positions, in every room. Basically, it's about putting an end to men's over-order. The Left Party is a feminist party whose whole policy is permeated by the work against this very thing. Power must be shifted, which is closely linked to economic equality between women and men. For the woman who is exposed at home, it is vital not to be financially dependent on her partner but to be able to leave the relationship. We must have decent pensions and workable health insurance. The construction of parental insurance is a key to achieving an equal working life and reducing the income gap between women and men. In order to break the mastery of men, one must be prepared to act and ensure that parental insurance is individualised. Moving power and breaking stereotyped gender roles is a social change and long-term work, but the size of the challenge must not prevent us from seeing everything that is relatively easy to do here and now, directly, against the problems that the Metoo testifies to. I would particularly like to highlight seven concrete proposals we have. First of all, remove the general fixed term as a form of employment! Insecureness is a prerequisite for men to have the grip on women they have. Strengthen the Sex Crimes Act, educate the judiciary, improve sex and cohabitation education, strengthen safety representatives, target the Discrimination Act and set up a crisis commission with professional support for all who have finally dared to enforce abuse and trauma! Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, establishment and inclusion means a society that gives everyone, regardless of background, religion, skin colour, gender or sexuality, the right to good education, work and housing. The Left Party is taking the fight against discrimination at all levels of society. The engine of this work is a general welfare policy. Housing shortages and unemployment also affect those who are newly arrived in Sweden, and therefore requires both a strong policy for general welfare and individual solutions to utilise experience and resources. The Left Party wants to take advantage of the will and ability of all people to work. Unemployment is a huge waste of human resources, and one of the most important goals of the Left Party is full employment. In order to achieve full employment, a policy for more jobs is needed, on the one hand, through increased investment in railway rehabilitation, housing construction, climate change, further investment in more employees and higher quality in health, education and long-term care and, on the other hand, an active labour market policy that equips the unemployed for today's and tomorrow's labour markets. A functioning employment service plays a crucial role here. What is needed is a policy that creates jobs to do the work that needs to be done in Sweden in order for the welfare, infrastructure and society as a whole to work – for everyone living in it. Creating simple jobs with low wages is not, and has never been, the right way to go. This path leads to greater divisions in society and increased power for employers. That is what the policy of the Right looks like, and that is how it strives. Now, when you hear the right's criticism of the parties' agreement on the so-called start-up jobs, it is very clear that this is still the case. The bourgeois government believed that tax cuts would lead to lower unemployment; they did not. On the contrary, unemployment increased during their time in power, leaving behind a large deficit in public finances. Under the red-green government and thanks to the budgetary cooperation we have had with us in the Left Party, employment is now increasing sharply, while unemployment is falling. Youth unemployment in particular has decreased significantly and is now the lowest in ten years. At the same time, it is quite clear which young people are outside: those who have not been able to cope with high school. That's where our focus must be. In today's debate, those who come to Sweden are often reduced to refugees or immigrants. Their skills and knowledge are made invisible. At the same time, increased internationalisation places higher demands on cross-cultural skills in working life. Those who speak additional languages in addition to the majority language benefit greatly from this in their work, and it is becoming increasingly important for businesses and authorities to have more multilingual employees. Therefore, proven cross-cultural skills as well as multilingualism should be considered a merit in all public employments. In Left Party Sweden there must be zero tolerance against discrimination. We know that racism sorts, discriminates and ranks. It affects people physically, in the form of hate crimes, and also structurally, in the form of what jobs you can get or what housing you get access to. In today's Sweden, class has both gender, color and geography. One way of reducing the risks of arbitrarily excluding job seekers from foreign backgrounds is to clearly formulate in job descriptions and advertisements the requirements required, the qualifications necessary and sufficient, and the selection principles that will be used. Public authorities and businesses have a particular responsibility to combat discrimination and set an example. The Left Party wants requirements profiles to be made mandatory for employment in public authorities and companies. In short, we need a government that is both feminist and anti-racist.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1086	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party usually engages in a lot of talk but few concrete measures. I wonder: in what way did women lose to an alliance government? What the Alliance did was a historic effort to promote gender equality. I believe, if I am not mistaken, that 2.6 billion was invested in greater equality. No previous government has invested so much in increased gender equality as the alliance government, and so says Christina Höj Larsen that women have lost on an alliance government. Just take this with the job tax deduction. In fact, it gave low and middle wage earners more in their wallets. They got more power themselves, and the state got less power; that's exactly how it should be. You got an extra month's salary. The policy of the left has meant that nurses and policemen have to pay government taxes. It's crazy that these broad income groups should pay government taxes! This is the wrong way to go. Then there will be no more hands in healthcare or more hours worked in the economy. So there is a lot of talk but little action. Then you have approved every job tax deduction that the Alliance Government established in the budgets that you have been involved in working with the Government on. You have approved them – not demanded that they be removed. When it comes to companies in the welfare sector, very many women are the leaders of those businesses. But you are also against them. In principle, therefore, I would like to say that the Left Party talks a lot but is against anything that improves for women in this country.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1091	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, if we're going to call it that! It is interesting to call important reforms that actually make a difference for people in everyday life to talk. I started my speech by listing a number of very concrete things that are actually noticeable and really make a difference for people in everyday life. These include, for example, investments in maternity care. We have had a huge discussion about the major shortcomings that exist in Swedish maternity care. It seems to have completely bypassed the Moderates. I don't know why. We have initiatives that are very specific about women. This applies to mammography and better rules for part-time stamping. We know that women work more part-time than men. We have efforts to improve the skills of the judiciary in terms of men's violence against women. These are the biggest investments in welfare in decades. It's not a talk. It's a workshop. When the Moderates here ask how their policies have affected women, they almost think it is rhetorical. The simple answer is that the priority tax cuts for high-income earners. Who are Swedish high income recipients? It's men. Priority for high-income earners will also be given to men. When you look at the budget for this year, and also for the previous year, you see that the distribution is different. We see that it is those with the lowest incomes who get more. We see for the first time that the gini coefficient actually turns around. It's a policy of equality. It's a policy of justice. That there also needs to be more done, I fully agree.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1098	Mr President, I would like to What I want to conclude is that the Moderates really make a difference. We work with gender equality for real. In many organisations in Sweden, it is politics that is the supervisor. For example, we have our municipalities and county councils. That's where we can make a difference. I took up Täby, Solna and Österåker in my main speech. Solna is the most equal municipality, since it has the most equal salaries for municipal employees. Net wealth among the inhabitants of Solna is the most equal in Sweden. Women in Täby and Österåker earn considerably more than men. I'm not saying it's equal that they earn more. What I mean is that right there, gender doesn't matter. It is the skills that are important, and you see people as individuals. This is a question of freedom. Where is the Left Party's example of a good municipality, where it really works with economic equality? I hope we don't look at Venezuela. The question of the general time limit is interesting. I have noticed that when the Left Party itself seeks people as ombudsmen, it says that it is a matter of a general fixed term. You want to be able to use general time, but others should not be able to do so. In fact, the general fixed-term is something that is quite good for people to get into work, and eventually they become permanent employees. I therefore believe that you are using general time, but others are not allowed to do so. I find that very strange, Mr President.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1104	Mr President, I would like to I note that every time the bourgeoisie uses these ugly tricks of trying to connect us with communist dictatorships in different ways, I tend to think that it is game over somehow in the argumentation itself. That's what I'm thinking now. On the question of whether we have approved all the job tax deductions, it is well known – it is good that I have the opportunity to talk about it – that we have a conflict with the government that is about just how we view the distribution policy. We will continue to have that. We believe that the tax system is rigged for the richest, and that is primarily the responsibility of the Alliance. We in the Left Party think that we should turn the ship around and actually create a society that is for the many and not for the few. It's not a secret. It is a conflict on the issue of capital taxation that we have and that we will continue to have. But I understand that in the perspective that Erik Andersson has here, it is the continued tax relief for the richest, that is, men, who are prioritised. This will not be the case for either me or the Left Party.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1108	Mr President, I would like to As I have said, this budget debate on the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on Category 13 is divided into two areas. The first was about gender equality, which my colleague Erik Andersson spoke about in his speech and in his replies. I will focus on the second important area, namely the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. Both of these areas are important. They have become more topical, and there is a lot to do there. We have a lot to do to strengthen integration, to lower the thresholds into the labour market for new arrivals and to ensure that income from work should be the natural income also for those who come to Sweden later as asylum seekers. Sweden has taken a great responsibility, and takes a great responsibility, for people who flee their home countries from oppression and misery. For several years, Sweden has been one of the EU countries that has had the greatest reception of refugees in the EU in relation to the population. It has posed major challenges and we now need a policy in which the integration of those who have arrived and who are allowed to stay is at the centre. Migration is a very important and, at the same time, a difficult issue. A faster and shorter road to work is a prerequisite for successful integration, which in turn is crucial for how we can manage migration. We Moderates are proposing a wide range of reforms on integration and migration, with a clear focus on jobs and self-sufficiency. On the migration side, we want, among other things, the EU's asylum system to be reformed in the long term. We want to see a European quota refugee asylum control system at the EU's external border, where refugees are distributed among EU countries on the basis of quotas. The route to the country in which you are granted a residence permit could then be carried out by safe means, unlike what it is today when, in many situations, criminal traffickers expose people to extremely dangerous journeys to reach the EU. The asylum trial, as it is today, would be based on an individual examination. And no one would be sent to unsafe areas. Pending the entry into force of a new system, Sweden may need to have a somewhat tighter migration policy, in which reception of refugees is more clearly linked to the possibilities of achieving integration. Therefore, we believe that temporary residence permits should remain the general rule. But they should be able to be transformed into permanent if you have work and self-sufficiency. In the same way, we also want to see more stringent supply requirements in the event of family immigration, and we say no to general amnesties for persons who do not have protection reasons. The recent settlement of unaccompanied refugee children by the two government parties, after apparently great discord and tough negotiations, is unfortunate and indeed bad. It risks the legal certainty of asylum seekers and our asylum system, and it jeopardises the right of asylum. Those who are suspected of having lied about their age can have their case tried and have a good chance of staying in Sweden, while those who were telling the truth and were allowed to leave the country will not be given any opportunity to enter. In addition, it remains very unclear what exactly applies. This is evident when one hears the government's various ministers speak. It is also unclear who should bear the cost. Is it the state or the municipalities? While acting in this way, people who are here and working because of petitess are regularly expelled. The employer may have inadvertently made a minor error. I have also heard stories at home in Värmland about people who have been considered to have too little vacation or who have worked too much overtime, even though salary levels and other things are approved according to agreements by the union and so on. So there's going to be a weird difference. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we Moderates are proposing a series of reforms to strengthen integration. We want to lower the thresholds into the labour market for those who come to our country. That is why we propose the admission jobs, where work is combined with education. The proposal is that 75% of the time is for work and 25% for education. It is, of course, working time that pays. Then it is a good thing that the social partners are trying to come to an agreement. There has been discussion of the creation of jobs, which included my colleague, Mrs Pethrus, from the Christian Democrats. However, it remains unclear what their outcome will be, and it is unclear what the cost to taxpayers will be. That is why we think that entry jobs seem to be substantially better, but we also have a positive attitude to start-ups – although it is unclear and although it seems that a great burden will be placed on taxpayers. We are also clear that we want a duty of integration and education. These include social orientation and learning about Sweden and Swedish values. In addition, there are increased demands for efforts to learn the language and increased activity requirements during the start-up period and also, in cases where this happens, when you end up in a situation where you receive support from the municipalities afterwards. The obligation of integration and education covers both men and women who come to our country. It is important for integration, but it is also important for gender equality. We are also proposing a ceiling. Working should always be more profitable than not working. It makes perfect sense and makes perfect sense, and most people think so. Unfortunately, this is not always the case today, and today it takes nearly nine years for half of asylum seekers to have a full-time job or self-support through work. It won't hold. The establishment period, i.e. the time when the state bears the costs and the responsibility for the new arrivals, is now two years. It's obviously far too short. After that, a great financial burden falls on our municipalities. We therefore want, in combination with reforms to lower labour market thresholds, some austerity in benefit systems and integration and education obligations, to extend the start-up period from today's two to three years. We believe that this is good for both integration and the newcomers and the economies of our municipalities. In addition, we need to increase access to so-called simple jobs, i.e. jobs that require lower pre-knowledge and that can be a good step into the labour market. The successful RUT reform of the Alliance was such an important reform – a reform that made a black industry white. Through the reform, the industry grew rapidly, and many new companies started and grew. Many of these companies were started by women, often by women born in other countries. Many of those who got jobs in these, both start-ups and already existing companies, got their very first job with this. Many of the people who got the jobs were people who had higher thresholds into the labour market: young people without professional experience, people who recently came to Sweden and to a large extent women. In many cases it was a combination of these. Here the government has tightened and reduced the amount of deductions for domestic services. Its cooperation party from the far left wants to abolish it completely and is pleased that the government, with their help, has halved the ceiling. We propose a triple of the current levels to increase the availability of simple jobs. What worries is that the government is too passive. By means of agreements, certain positive elements have emerged, and it is politics that the government is also pursuing. But in general, it is very poor on proposals for reforms that contribute to more jobs, and in many cases it makes it less profitable to work compared to not working in relation to how it was before. Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, Sweden is doing well. We are in a fiery boom, and companies are generally developing very positively. New jobs are emerging. Unfortunately, Sweden is doing well despite rather than because of the government we have.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1128	Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of the speech, I almost thought that we had ended up in the migration debate and not in the integration debate, which in itself is also my subject. I noticed a word I thought was interesting, namely that our ability to integrate should govern migration and that it affects that way. I wonder a little about the reverse, that is to say that migration in itself actually affects the possibility of integration. Reforms here alone are not enough because, in the end, it is still about human relations and human meetings. Or does it appear to the Moderates that we will no longer have a segregated society as long as we succeed in getting enough ways to enter the labour market, enough wages and enough different forms of self-sufficiency? That is where I see the major problems, and I have seen them for a long time. I previously had a change of line with Fredrik Malm on this very subject, namely that I welcome the fact that the Liberals are saying that much more than a job is needed to get into society and integrate. From the Moderates' side, however, it sounds very much like the focus is only that people should get some kind of self-sufficiency. In what way is it integrated if you are banished to low-wage jobs and worse conditions – or if you have managed to get into the rest of the labour market, continue to be part of separate teams depending on whether you have a Swedish background or a different background and do not work on the same terms? That is where the big problem lies, and that is where I unfortunately still see the Moderates making their bets. Special solutions and subsidised employment create further segregation in the labour market.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1132	Mr President, I would like to Of course, jobs are a fundamental part of integrating and becoming part of Swedish society, and that is basically whether you are born in Sweden by Swedish-born parents or if you come here from another country in adulthood. To become a part of Swedish society, jobs are extremely important. Then, of course, other parts are required as well. We attach great importance to learning the language, how it works in Swedish society and that Swedish laws and regulations apply. However, there is – and it is good to see – a big difference between Moderates and Swedish Democrats. We have different views of people who come to our country and help build our country. However, it is very difficult to come here and be involved in building up our country if you are not given access to the labour market and are not given the opportunity to contribute. We want to solve this by lowering the thresholds, but we also want to increase the requirements. I think the Moderates have a very clear policy there. In Sweden, Swedish laws and rules apply, and they should be followed. There are things that are acceptable and things that are not acceptable. But the foundation should still be that when you are in Sweden – when you have been granted permission to stay and your residence permit – it is income from work that should be the natural thing. If, on the other hand, you do not have grounds for protection and you are refused your application, you must also return. A yes is a yes, and a no is a no, so it is on this issue as well.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1136	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Christian Holm Barenfeld, although I have to say that I am somewhat perplexed about what is meant by the fact that we would have a different view of people coming here and doing the right thing. We in the Swedish Democrats are clear that anyone who comes here and does the right thing should of course have the opportunity to have an extended residence permit and eventually apply for citizenship if that's what you want – if you want to be a part of the country permanently. We have talked very clearly and for a long time about the conflict line in our society between people born in Sweden and people born in another country. Rather, it goes between those who are actually part of and contribute to society and those who do not, that is, those who break down. On the other hand, there is a factor in the difficulty of starting an integration process when a great many people come to our country from distant cultures at the same time. It is not just a question of forcing people to go through projects and learn the language and have it as a prerequisite. We have also talked about compulsory teaching and compulsory social studies tests. But just the fact that you do not get access to the personal, everyday meetings – that you do not meet the rest of society when you come here, but refer to one subsidised employment after another and one project after another – means that you end up in segregated forms of our labour market. That is where there is a great problem, and it has been contributed by the Moderates – and continues to contribute to. They want to divide the labour market. Special solutions and specific low-wage sectors are being created, because it is felt that this is the only way immigrants can enter society. But that's not the case. In fact, research generally shows that a good factor to look at to see if someone is integrated or not self-evident is whether the person has work, but that the process often begins outside. It's all about so much more for someone to be employable. It is a good way to measure how well we have succeeded, but focusing on people getting a job and believing that they are thus part of society as a whole – that they have succeeded – is not enough. Therefore, the policy of the Moderates, which focuses on special solutions, will never be enough if we want to create a society for all.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1141	Mr President, I would like to Sweden was not, and is not, equipped to receive over time as many people as we did in 2015 and 2016. That is why the Moderates are very clear: as I said in my speech, we want European legislation. We want asylum reception at EU level that is allocated with a quota system. It would also mean that we could have more safe ways into Europe. I think that Paula Bieler is quite right that it is important to have daily natural meetings with different parts of Swedish society. That's the job base. It's at work you meet people, and it's at work you have the opportunity to discuss. The job also provides economic opportunities to exploit and assimilate Swedish society. It is not entirely a question of subsidised employment. The entry job we are talking about is paid in full – it is 75% work and also education. It's not a subsidy, it's an opportunity to learn the job at work. If you start a job without having all the knowledge, is it reasonable that you don't get paid as well as the one who has all the knowledge? But it is a temporary job, and it also applies to young people who are far removed from the labour market. I find it difficult to see what would be problematic about this. Paula Bieler said at the outset that it sounded like this was a migration debate. I think it is reasonable to talk about migration when talking about integration, because the two areas are somewhat connected. If no people come here, we have no challenges with integration, while if there are huge numbers of people here we have bigger problems with integration. My focus, however, is that we should have concrete proposals on how to solve this. It should not be the case that the only proposal is that the border should now be closed, but rather that it should be about how we ensure that people get to work.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1147	Mr President, I would like to The establishment of newcomers in working and social life must be made more effective. In order to increase the efficiency of the establishment mandate, a new regulatory framework will enter into force on 1 January. New arrivals' knowledge needs to be better exploited in the Swedish labour market – there is no doubt about this. The strong demand for labour makes job focus something self-evident. It is about clear tracks to work, with a focus on shortage jobs, and about mapping what the individual has in his luggage when it comes to us and filling in what is missing to make the person walkable on the Swedish labour market. The Employment Service today has a wide toolbox with efforts to equip and match new arrivals to work. Increasing the employment rate of women is important – in particular for foreign-born women, whose employment rate is far too low today. Efforts to increase the participation of women born abroad in the labour market are welcome and necessary. Welcoming and necessary is also the setting of funds for the Delegation for Youth and Newcomers to work. The same applies to funding for actions during parental leave and for resources for the study associations for outreach and motivating activities. These elements are all important for increasing the participation of women born abroad in the labour market. Strengthening labour market matching requires more unemployed people to take part in education and training, both to equip themselves for existing jobs and to equip themselves for emerging jobs. In connection with the entry into force of the new legal framework for the establishment of new arrivals, the Government is required to provide training for new arrivals. Those in need of training in order to obtain and take up a job must participate. For a very large number of people, subsidised employment is necessary to enable them to enter the labour market. Simplifying the system of subsidised employment through uniform support – introductory jobs – is something that has been requested by many and welcomed. The introduction jobs replace five forms of support and will be both simpler and more powerful. Trade unions and employers have now agreed on the so-called start-up jobs. They shall be full-time and shall normally lead to a permanent contract of employment. Jobs must include training on paid working hours, and pay must comply with collective agreements. It is good that the parties have agreed on this. For the Swedish labour market, it is important to have collective wage and permanent employment as a goal. I look forward to finding models to make this happen, and I believe that the Minister for Employment met with the parties last week to continue discussions on this. Whatever form of support or measure is involved, it is important that the objective is to move on to employment. Too many people testify to how to spin around the system and move from action to action. There are also too many examples where measures and subsidies become a way for companies to man, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. Let me be clear that I see that measures and subsidised employment may be necessary for many to enter the labour market. But the goal must always be that people move on to employment with a salary to live on – a salary that allows them to start their lives. This is the goal both for the individual and – of course – for the whole of society. Anyone who listens to the debate in this House can sometimes feel that we have enormous challenges and very difficult problems. But when you're out visiting businesses, talking to employment agencies or talking to participants in different programs, there are many good examples, commitment and a much greater belief in the future. I will not burden the congregation here with so many examples, but I still want to give something. For example, the collaboration with Skogsstyrelsen, which receives and equips people with forest knowledge within the framework of modern preparedness work, is described. It is a commendable initiative. As we can also see in the statistics, it describes how the extra services are emerging and taking off around the country. There is talk of fast-tracks that work perfectly well, where people go to work and not only solve a labour shortage but also start their lives with the training they receive, which leads to jobs. But, of course, there are also difficulties. One of the greatest difficulties I see – and perhaps the greatest challenge we have – is to translate the knowledge and experience that people carry with them. We have far too many well-educated people who are currently working on things that require significantly lower qualifications. Making the best use of people's knowledge and experience is the goal for all of us. Mr President, I would like to We have challenges, but we also have endless opportunities. I visited a few weeks ago a few classes at one of the high school schools at home in Kristianstad. I asked a class of young people who had been in Sweden for one or two years about the goal of education and where I would meet them sometime in the future. There, it turned out, sat from prospective construction workers to doctors and dentists. The dreams were clear and the goal was clear. The teachers witnessed dedicated youths with a high awareness of what they wanted and where they were going. When we see that the lack of a professional list is long – even very long – we can therefore see that we have a good chance of solving this. We have people who can take the jobs, and we have a policy to equip them with the right skills. I support the proposal in the report.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1165	Mr President, I would like to I still can't help asking for lines! Annelie Karlsson speaks hotly for subsidised employment. I would like to ask a brief and concise question: how does having subsidised employment for some people but not for others reduce the conflict between groups in society?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1167	Mr President, I would like to That question is easy to answer. We have subsidised jobs for a great many more than newcomers in our country. We have subsidised employment for those who have a barrier to employment and for those who are far removed from the rest of the labour market. I think that Paula Bieler can make a visit to any employment agency and get a good overview of what subsidised jobs you see there. So it is absolutely not that this is just about new arrivals. It is interesting to listen to the Swedish Democrats, because it is always a problem to subsidise. I think most of the rhetoric from the Swedish Democrats is that there is an alienation. If we know that the subsidy can be the step into the labour market, and if Paula Bieler and I could agree that we want the subsidy to lead to an open-ended employment and a job where the person concerned can make a living and start her life, is it not wrong to subsidise initially? There should be a clear objective that the person should not harrow around in action after action, but the action should lead to work. Then we have made a good investment and made sure to staff the labour market with nurses, sheet metal workers, car mechanics, doctors and nurses. The best investment we can make is to equip people with knowledge and allow them to test the labour market. Subsidised employment is often the start of self-support, and that is the best thing for both the individual and society, both the Swedish Democrats and the rest of us in this House should be able to agree on.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1172	Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of statistics showing that subsidised employment does not lead to regular jobs. Rather, you get stuck in the subsidised and then end up in exclusion again when you no longer have access to the subsidies. Annelie Karlsson should know that the Swedish Democrats are against subsidies that not everyone can get access to, whether they are age limits, that they have recently come to the country or something like that. Targeted pay support for those who have different functional variations, which affect work capacity in a completely different way, we support. It is something that anyone can suffer at any time in life. In terms of having different initiatives with the opportunity to learn and enter the labour market that way, the Swedish democrats have for all years talked about apprenticeships and different forms of linking and combining forms of employment where you learn the job and where the employer is compensated for the additional resources needed on the spot to train new people who do not know the profession and because the new ones do not produce as much from the start. We have pushed for this, but we have been against limiting it because of age or descent. We believe that both the red and the blue sides all too often land in having rough group divisions and actually put groups against groups and build segregation and contradictions in society instead of solving the problem by creating a form of employment where you learn the profession and who is open to whoever goes there. That is how we should work rather than with rough group divisions on which I firmly claim to build and create further segregation.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1176	Mr President, I would like to That's interesting rhetoric Paula Bieler has. It's okay with subsidies if it's not about subsidizing a job for someone who's weak in language. That's how I interpret Paula Bieler. It is difficult to say that such a measure should apply to everyone, because the vast majority of those born in this country do not need to enter the labour market to practice their language. There are those who think that we need it, but most people think that we can do well in the labour market without being out and doing language training. Many of those who have a different language go into subsidised employment to train their Swedish. Paula Bieler thinks that's wrong. I do not understand how we will achieve integration if we do not allow people to come out and try the labour market. But let us ignore that. I share Paula Bieler's view that action should not be rotated. You're not supposed to go in and out of action. That it will lead to work is my goal. The Social Democrats have always said that we should not have people who live with subsidised employment, but they should go on living. You should be able to live on your salary and have collective agreements. Then we can probably agree that the new start-up job is a good model. The aim is that it should lead to an open-ended employment contract with collective wage, i.e. not in and out of measures, and that you should get the skills you need to stand firm in the labour market. This model will be presented here, and it has Paula Bieler the opportunity to say yes to quite soon. It is an opportunity for the Swedish Democrats to do what they say and let people avoid spinning around in measures and let the parties decide what it should look like on the Swedish labour market.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1182	Mr President, I would like to I have listened with great interest to the debate, and there are many things I want to take with me. I share Annika Qarlsson's strong commitment to women's rights and women's right to shape their lives and take a stand regardless of origin. In your new country, you should have the opportunity to freely shape your life. I share Fredrik Malm's emphasis on the importance of values. We need zero tolerance of hatred, extremism and violence. It is not only jobs that are needed to establish themselves in society, but also democracy and participation, of course. I share Mrs Pethrus' emphasis on the fact that social orientation and language teaching must come from the time of asylum. I'm no stranger to making it mandatory, too. I share the commitment and the suggestion that we must have different requirements for EBO to ensure that we do not build completely unsustainable social situations for many new arrivals. I share Christina Höja Larsen's great commitment to the importance of general welfare for integration into society and for an active housing policy. I share Christian Barenfeld's emphasis on always putting jobs at the centre and also agree with the need for us to have an EU-wide migration policy. We have also addressed the Moderates' proposal on education. I see that many of the opposition parties have a lot to contribute in order to create a policy that allows us to best receive the many new arrivals, which is our greatest challenge at the moment. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has for a long time received many new residents from other countries. Most of the time, they've been refugees. When we compare Sweden's results with those of other countries, there is a lot to be proud of. We differ, because our share of refugees is greater. Other countries may have a higher proportion of migrant workers. This, of course, affects the conditions. Compared to other countries, we are very good at getting people into the workforce. We have a high employment rate among foreign born. For foreign born children who have been in Sweden five years or more, we have a higher employment rate than the average for domestic born in the OECD. We have a higher employment rate for foreign born than they have for domestic born in the United States, France, Poland and Luxembourg. The OECD has made a major analysis of the results of various countries in integration policy, and Sweden is one of the best countries. We have a high level of knowledge of the new language, in our case Swedish, compared with knowledge of the new language in other countries. In Sweden there is also a clear progression in terms of the possibility of getting into work. So not everything is night black. There are things we do well. But, Mr President, we must do it much more quickly. It's going way too slow. It takes far too long for people to get their first job in Sweden and become part of Swedish society. That is why we must do things in new ways, and we must dare to make greater reforms and efforts to bring about this change. When I received this assignment three and a half years ago, I began to look at why, in an international comparison, we have managed relatively well in terms of new arrivals – but not all areas. But what has worked well? As a representative of Sweden, I am used to hearing myself say at various international meetings: In Sweden we have a system – we often do. But when it comes to getting new arrivals into the labour market, one is struck by the absence of systems and how much is ad hoc, projects, coincidences and enthusiasts and how little is systematic and how many have to invent the wheel over and over again. We are faced with perhaps the greatest challenge we have ever faced in the labour market. I do not think that one can overestimate the major challenges we are now facing – bringing new arrivals into the labour market. Greater structural reforms are needed to cope with this, and the government does. We have implemented a series of major structural reforms. Perhaps one of the most important is the settlement law. Nowadays, all municipalities will be involved in taking responsibility for new arrivals. It is an extremely important reform, and it is absolutely surprising to others that we have not had it before. One thing in which we are ahead of other countries is that we take into account the labour market when we benefit. It is not surprising that it is easier to find a job in a region where there are job vacancies than in a region where there is no job. Another major change we have made concerns parental leave. We have abolished the custody allowance, which was a female trap for women born abroad and newly arrived women. We have made other changes in parental insurance that mean that you don't get as many days for the children that already exist and who have reached a certain age when you come to Sweden. The third structural reform, which has already been mentioned here, concerns the new regulatory framework that will apply on 1 January. The previous government did a lot of good things with the establishment reform. New arrivals were granted rights. Now we are adding obligations, and that is what is needed. It'll be a better balance. Rights and obligations will become fully effective on 1 January, in the same way as for other unemployed. This will allow us to introduce a training obligation for all those who need training in order to enter the labour market. We have made structural changes with regard to compensation systems. We have gone from detailed compensation schemes for, for example, unaccompanied minors to flat-rate payments, which have provided a completely different predictability but actually also reduced costs for the state, which means that we can make better use of resources. We are creating more opportunities for roads in vocational education and training. There are proposals for professional packages, and we also need to make other reforms in the area of adult education in order for more adults, such as new arrivals, to be able to train themselves to the many shortages that we have today. But, Mr President, more structural reforms are needed. One of the important things now is that we are working on what is called start-ups, and we have started that work together with the parties. I believe and hope that there will be an important structural reform of the Swedish labour market. We will work with and propose an EBO reform, which allows us to deal with the off-sets that exist with EBO, d are you settle in ways that are not socially sustainable or where there is trade and cheating with addresses for people in vulnerable situations. Mr President, I would like to There are also proposals for a new reception system. I do not rule out the need for other structural reforms, because, as I said, we are in the middle of a major challenge. We have to be brave. Major challenges require cooperation in order to succeed. We have achieved several important collaborations in this House, not least within the framework of the migration agreement. We have a good partnership with the municipalities, and we are now strengthening this with new resources to build what we call local job tracks: to look at the vacancies that exist in the municipality or region and to build local job tracks so that local companies, or for that matter the municipality, can find and train people for the job vacancies. Local traces of welders, cleaners or carers – internships, language skills and professional skills can lead to the job vacancies. We need cooperation with civil society. Annelie Karlsson spoke earlier here about many of the investments in the budget. There are, for example, new resources for outreach activities in the field of adult education, not least in the case of women born abroad. This is extremely important. Civil society and education come up and reach people in a different way than we do through, for example, the municipalities and the state. Last but not least, we need cooperation with the social partners. No one is perhaps surprised that I am extremely pleased that the parties responded so quickly when we proposed fast track for those who come to Sweden with the professional skills needed in the Swedish labour market. Now they have also responded with their proposal on how to help the many who do not at all have the knowledge normally required on the Swedish labour market and how we can build tracks that make us build on the knowledge to permanently manage the supply of skills. Last Friday we started talks with the parties. It will certainly be intensive work. There will certainly be many things that need to be discussed and perhaps changed before we get there, but I think we will achieve and have a major reform that can have a very significant impact on the Swedish labour market.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1211	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the opportunity for this debate! The Minister mentioned certain elements where there is a consensus between the Government and the Alliance on the purchase of education obligations. I think that's good. It is good if there is a broad consensus about things that are good. It is good that we from both sides think that jobs are important at the centre and that jobs are the best way to integration. It was good that we were able to tighten up parental insurance so that it could not be applied retroactively to the same extent. The Minister said something about refugees and labour immigration. That's two completely different things. We opened up a lot to labour migration. There we now see a number of degeneratives. I am somewhat confused and disappointed that it takes a lot of time for the government to deal with the fact that we are expelling people who are here and working on work visas – people whom we also have a great need of – because their employers have possibly made some minor mistake. Then it's about priorities and doing the right things. Last week we debated labour market training and preparatory orienteering training. There's a little bit of a difference of view. There may be something that is good, but it is not very effective spent money in many situations. The obligation to integrate is good – that is what we want, and you are welcome to buy it. The education requirement is good. We are also proposing a ceiling. But then we have the entry jobs. You are proposing start-ups, which we are not opposed to, but what will these concretely mean? What will they cost, and who will bear the costs – is it the taxpayer who will bear the costs of setting up employment?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1217	Mr President, I would like to As far as labour market training is concerned, I would like to say to Christian Barenfeld: I intend to ensure that it is sufficiently effective so that we get the currency for tax money in the same way as before when we have had labour market training. They can be an important tool. They had a big dip, but we're getting out of it. In the case of establishment contracts, the parties have entered into an agreement in principle. I think it is courageous of the parties who have dared to take the lead – I have to say that. When we're done, I think there'll be more people who want to join the model. Exactly what the model will look like, we do not yet know, because we are in talks where we look at several different choices that have to be made here. I cannot anticipate that process. It is launched, the parties are in it and it involves several ministries within the government. I think I can reassure Christian Barenfeld on one point: I do not think this will be very expensive for taxpayers. It is not free to have people unemployed, and we already have other subsidised jobs with a higher subsidy rate than is proposed for the start-up jobs. I see that these could perhaps be used more effectively. I think it's important to meet not least employers' desire for simpler forms – forms that they themselves feel good to work with. Then I am prepared to listen to it and try to meet it as far as possible. But we will have to come back to the details, and I will of course be happy to come back to Parliament with them.
i-PowgTBB43CpPHfsoV4Qdu6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson! On the moderate side, we are not negative, but rather in favour of the social partners talking to each other and trying to agree on start-ups. But we maintain our entry jobs. In the same way as with education, the government is happy to run copy paste and take the entry jobs, because it is actually employment that is not subsidised at all. These are real jobs that embarrass money into the treasury. You have part of it as an education and ensure that you get to learn the job at work. I'm sure they could work side by side, too. This makes it all the more effective with the Alliance's proposal on entry jobs, where you get both work and training under a limited ID, unlike the start-up contracts, which it is so far difficult to know what they will contain. I also understand that a number of LO associations have said that they may not find it so interesting to be involved, and that is a bit unfortunate, because it is associations that are relatively large and organize quite a lot of those who have simple jobs. But given the close relationship between LO and the Social Democrats, the Minister may have some possibilities to influence this. It would be good if the whole movement were involved, so to speak, so that it will not be large industries that stand out, because then some of the point of the start-up jobs disappears.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1224	Mr President, I would like to I believe that a lesson we can draw from many years' attempts in both labour market policy and education policy is that it is very difficult to get the Swedish labour market to combine education and work in the way we can see with jealousy that some other countries are better able to do. It works in a few industries but quite few. This is where you have proper apprenticeships or apprenticeships. Otherwise, it has been shown, even with the career introduction jobs, which I think is a very good idea, that the volumes are small. It seems difficult to get this combination of education and work. I think we will learn something from this and perhaps be more flexible in terms of forms. It rarely gets as good as you have imagined when you think of combinations of education and work. Otherwise, I also think that this is a good thing and that we would need more of it. But it has proved to be very difficult. Last, however, I would like to say that if we want to legislate on cuts in wages, we can vote for parties other than mine and our coalition partner.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1227	Mr President, I would like to I miss the Minister for Gender Equality here but would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Labour and Establishment for being present in today's debate. But the government is collective, so I'm sure she can answer these questions as well. I have two questions. First of all, I would like to inform the Minister that for us Moderates equality is a question of freedom. We believe that you should be able to be exactly what you want, regardless of gender, what you are called or the thickness of your wallet. Security is an important issue for gender equality. From the Moderates we invest SEK 12 billion in the judiciary over a ten-year period and 10 billion in the police over a three-year period. It is the largest investment in law and order in Sweden in over 20 years. But for the years 2018 – 2020 Moderates invest 3.4 billion more than the government in security. This is happening in a world where reported rapes have increased by 41% over a ten-year period, and many women in our country feel insecure, not least in our exclusion areas, where women cannot be as they want, look like they want or become what they want. I therefore wonder why the government does not want to invest at least as much as the Moderates in this with security. My second question concerns the residence law. It should be re-screwed in order for us to have a good integration. The municipalities do not have time to arrange housing while the Migration Agency closes adequate accommodation to get people out as soon as possible. It takes time. The state should give municipalities time to arrange good housing. At the same time, this happens in a situation where many municipalities act as banks for the state. I really feel sorry for the municipalities in this case.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1233	Mr President, I would like to It is welcome that the Moderates now want to invest more resources in the police. The difference is that we do it in a government position, which you didn't. I think there are many who have noticed that when we got a new government, we also got a new focus on security issues. We have given priority to police, judicial, sex law and defence issues. It was necessary. These were disadvantaged areas where more needed to be done. Now we're training a record number of police officers. We're opening new police trainings. It is good that we agree that this is important, Erik Andersson. I think that Erik Andersson himself also thinks that this is an important issue. We intend to deliver on security issues to the extent necessary. Unfortunately, it is necessary, for we see that people's physical security is threatened in many ways. This also applies to people's financial security. That is why we are also making efforts to reduce the gaps in society. This is perhaps the most important issue. Reducing gaps and increasing security – where many people today want to see more initiatives, and this government will deliver. It is a difficult location in the municipalities when it comes to receiving new arrivals. It's very difficult, I would say. It is a great effort for all municipalities. The municipalities that previously received very many still receive very many, although they do not receive any new instructions from the Migration Agency. The municipalities that previously did not receive any are now receiving many more than before. They are still lower than the national average, but they receive many more than before. This is a difficult situation for everyone, as the housing shortage was already high. So this is a difficult situation. However, the solution is not to put people in a position to wait even longer, because then we will have an increased black trade in contracts. Then we get more people living in different ways in a grey area of society. Today we already have an average period of up to six months from the time you receive your residence permit until you are received in a municipality. That period cannot be extended.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1241	Mr President, I would like to Both answers somehow deny reality. I do not think that the inhabitants of the Järva area, for example, feel that this government has done more, unfortunately. After all, it is those who live in these vulnerable areas who do not dare to go out in the evenings. There are traders who close their stores just because there is so much crime. In this way, the services of those living there are also deteriorating. It really takes effort to increase the security of the inhabitants. Nevertheless, the goal must be that all citizens of Sweden should be able to be as they want, do what they want and become what they want. That must be the ultimate goal. As far as the residence law is concerned, I would like to say that yes, it is a very strained situation, especially for the municipalities. But they can't do magic with their knees. What are they gonna do if there's no housing? It will be very difficult for the municipalities to organise a dwelling that the state designates. I asked if this could be screwed up in such a way that the municipalities have the opportunity to arrange adequate housing precisely so that integration can be as good as possible. There, however, the Minister shows the cold hand. I actually feel sorry for Sweden's municipalities, especially when they act as banks for the state.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1245	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, unacceptable for the municipalities to act as banks for the state. It needs to be addressed, and it is also something you work hard with at the Migration Agency. Many applications are quite complex, and these are very large volumes at the moment. Of course, it is not an acceptable and sustainable solution for municipalities to act as banks for the state. It is important to remember that the person who lives in Sweden also lives in a municipality. The entire area of Sweden is covered by municipalities. If some municipalities do not accept, people will settle in another municipality. This means that the distribution, which was supposed to be fair between the municipalities, is not fair. That is already the case today. It would be even more unjust if one were to say that one should wait. How long will it take? Some municipalities organise housing faster than others. This means that responsibility for these municipalities can be passed on. This is a very difficult question. I'm really not going to reduce the complexity or difficulty of the municipalities, because it's tough. I would like to say thank you to Sweden's municipalities, which are doing a great job in this. They accept and manage a very difficult mission in a very good way – a way that is better than it usually is when the state does. I do not think, however, that the solution is to change this, because then we will have an even more uneven distribution between the municipalities. Last, Mr President, I would like to say that I fully share the view that there is a need for strong action in the most vulnerable neighbourhoods – unemployment, social vulnerability, poverty and crime. Unfortunately, this often coincides. Therefore, the government is making a historically large and long-term effort to equip these residential areas. It's necessary.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1250	Mr President, I would like to It's a long day in this Chamber. It is fortunate that we are not covered by the Work Environment Act and the Working Time Act. Then we would have gone home a while ago. My question to the Government concerns fast track. When the initiative was presented, there was great hope that it could deliver more results than it has. During the journey, hopes have been turned down. It has been said: No, but really as much hope as we had from the beginning we can probably not have. You can look at what happened in 2016 and until August 2017. I've found information that 4 800 have started a fast track. There's 600 in ID jobs. And there's about 300 every month. Although we do not believe that we can achieve a great deal with this, there is one issue. If only half of these people have got a job and only one third of the ID professions, I wonder: What is in this reform that you can screw up and do better? I feel that what a lot of people are asking for when they come here is precisely the fast track in. There is also a labour market that screams for labour. It should be possible to get a better result than half or only a third. Last week I was down in Gothenburg and visited three projects that in different ways help people with a faster establishment. It was among other things the Job jump, where you work together with Volvo. Those who have just been granted a residence permit can apply for a place in Jobpånget. They don't have to have all Swedish in place when they start. Since it is a large company, they have the opportunity to use English. That's seven out of ten jobs. The others are being prepared for the future. There are a variety of projects aimed at these people. But what else can we do with the fast track?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1256	Mr President, I would like to The job jump is great. It is Iva who runs it for newly arrived academics. They also receive resources from the government for this. We'd like to continue with that. It is about realizing that people who come to Sweden also have skills with them. It's about how we can take care of them and use them. I am sure that Annika Qarlsson shares my wish in this. There's a lot more we can do there. Now I don't have the exact numbers in front of me. But I think there are considerably more, 5 000 - 6 000, who have gone through the fast track so far. Some of the fast-tracks are aimed at people who are expected to go directly to work. Others are earlier in the process – after the fast track you move on. It is therefore a kind of preparatory choice, so that one can proceed more quickly in the process to a teacher's ID or a teacher's profession, for example. The rapid tracks are in a bit of different phases – directly towards work or before other educations, one might say. It is therefore not possible to measure the number of people who get jobs directly. I'm happy with the fast track, but I definitely think we can get on with them and develop them. We now see that the time it takes for a newly arrived doctor to get a Swedish doctor's ID has decreased significantly. I dare not say, of course, that it is certainly because of the fast track, but I hope that it has contributed to the fact that we have been able to shorten that time. It is always the case with the licence professions that in the end the individual must meet the requirements for the licence. It is clear that different individuals are moving at different speeds. But I hope and believe that the fast track helps us to shorten that time so that more doctors can come out and work in Swedish health care. But more needs to be done. In answer to Annika Qarlsson's question, I say: This applies above all to matching and validation, i.e. the work of finding people, validating their skills and putting the right person on the right effort. That's where we have flaws. This can also be seen in other areas of labour market policy and the work of the Employment Service. There are shortcomings that need to be addressed.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1260	Mr President, I would like to I guess the last part was the system which is missing, which we would like to tell you about when we go out into the world. However, when it comes to fast track, it is described that in the case of licence professions, a smaller proportion has come to work. It should reasonably be a larger proportion if it is to be involved in influencing those figures. The second question I intended to devote more to the Employment Service. What has happened during the autumn is that they have chosen to reorganize their entire work. You're about to split it up. Part of the work must be directed at the enterprises, and another part must be directed at the job seekers. In such a reorganisation, it is very likely that a great deal of force will be used inwards. I can feel that we are currently in a very delicate position. Many of the new arrivals have come to the stage where they need help into the labour market. At the same time as this is going on, we are seeing a decrease in the number of complementary players. The procurements have not been successful. You don't pull in or put out work for procurement. The number of complementary actors will therefore be drastically reduced in the first half of the year and even more strongly in the next half-year. These are the signals that also come from Arbetsförmedlingen. Although there is a great need to redo Arbetsförmedlingen, I wonder: Is this an appropriate time for a reorganisation? Is it a good idea to reduce the number of complementary actors and not to make use of the networks and contacts that exist in society in different ways?
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1265	Mr President, I would like to It is true that Arbetsförmedlingen discusses whether to make a major reorganisation of the business. However, such a decision is not made. I think that one should think carefully for precisely the reasons that Annika Qarlsson here describes. With such an effort as is currently in place in the Authority, there is reason to consider whether to make such a large reorganisation that has been discussed or whether to settle for a slightly smaller one. There are certain elements that I think it is absolutely necessary to do something about. It is important that more people want to have contact with Arbetsförmedlingen via phone or online. Other parts may need to be considered. This is, of course, a matter for the management of Arbetsförmedlingen to consider. I know you do, too. The same applies to complementary operators. We need complementary actors. They do a good job, just as well as those who work in Arbetsförmedlingen. The results are fairly consistent. I do not see any intrinsic value in reducing the proportion of work carried out by complementary actors. However, the exact balance between procurement and priorities must, of course, be struck by the management of the Employment Service. They must also respond to this.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1268	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by saying that I actually have the nerve to take on some initial praise. Although my party and myself were not pointed out, there are some proposals that we too have been pushing for a long time. I hope that the Social Democrats, including Ylva Johansson, will soon realise that we too can present perspectives, problem formulations and proposals that are worth taking an extra look at. It has now been about a year and a half since Ylva Johansson received the addition of Minister of Establishment – in addition to Minister of Labour. One of the first steps taken by the newly appointed government was to abolish the Ministry of Integration. I have said in the past that it is at least honest when you change this area of expenditure from gender equality and integration to the establishment of new arrivals. But I wonder how the government and Ylva Johansson view exclusion and segregation in our society. Is it something relatively new? Is it something that became an acute problem to deal with after 2015? Or is it something that has been built up for a long time? What do you want to do about the broad segregation? Is it enough to have a focus on the establishment of new arrivals, and then the establishment of new arrivals in the labour market? How do you want to tackle the major segregation problems, alienation problems, that people are not part of society at large and that they do not feel at home in our country? I have heard the Liberals talk about this earlier today. I've heard Christina Höj Larsen talk about those perspectives. But otherwise it's pretty empty. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of focus just on getting into the labour market. Of course, it is an important part of many. But that's not the big picture. I wonder how Ylva Johansson views this and which of her colleagues I shall turn to for reasonable answers on this issue if it is not on her as Minister of Labour and Establishment.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1273	Mr President, I would like to Clusters between people and in society are one of the most dangerous things there is. For many years, Sweden has seen increased gaps between different groups, between men and women, between those who have it crept and those who are rich. There are gaps between the one who has a job and the one who doesn't have a job, between the one who works today and the one who used to work today is retired. There are gaps between children in the same school, between different regions of the country and between different parts of the same city. Clefts are dangerous, and I actually believe that I share that insight with a very large proportion of the House and also the world. How big a gap can a society withstand? Nobody knows that, but I think everyone knows there's a limit. This debate is part of a budget debate. As Paula Bieler knows, we have budget debates in several different contexts. Budget debate is what we do in December in Parliament. The budget we are dealing with has the theme of gaps, or rather of narrowing gaps. We have moved from a situation of 60 billion in deficit and high unemployment to a situation of significantly declining unemployment, especially among young people. We have gone to a situation where we could have had 80 billion in surplus instead of 60 billion in deficit. We choose to bet this money. Half of it goes to outsiders paying off on the public debt so that we equip for worse times. The other half is aimed at reducing the gaps. We do so by reducing the gaps in all the ways that divides can and should be reduced. This is done, of course, through labour market policies but also through support for single parents, investment in care for the elderly and health care and resources for the municipalities. Clefts are the most important issue of this government. We're not gonna give up until we have a community that stays together.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1279	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for this exposition! It was dramatic and strong. And yes, gaps are problematic. A divided society is problematic. We have also highlighted this at all times. However, I did not get a single word to answer my question about how you view segregation and the new divisions that have emerged as a result of the situation not being taken seriously. People come to our country without the opportunity to become part of society. They get caught up in various project work, in passivating grant systems and in victim roles. You do not create any incentives or opportunities so that these people in their hearts and hearts, and not just on paper, may be permanently resident, be part of Sweden and be Swedish citizens – be Swedes in a way that makes them feel that this is their home country. Sweden has segregation problems, which have been highlighted and developed for an extremely long time. That is where I hold all the other parties in this House responsible, because you are all in charge of the country. The Social Democrats have done so during the majority of that time. I repeat my question: what do you want to do to reduce segregation? What do you expect the Delegation against segregation to achieve without any clear governance? How do you think about building a responsibility to create a society where people are and perceive themselves to be Swedes if they are Swedish citizens and part of the same society as others and not passively or exiled to specific projects? We don't need to see any more bets that drag us into groups from where we come from or when we got here. That is what the policies of the Social Democrats do.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1283	Mr President, I would like to Let me put it this way: one important thing to reduce segregation is that all municipalities receive new arrivals and that not all new arrivals are concentrated in certain residential areas. Not all new arrivals will live in Vivalla, Rinkeby, Fittja or Bergsjön, but they will live in all municipalities. Imagine that all parties in this House agree on it except the Swedish Democrats! Instead, they feel that all new arrivals are living in the same residential areas and do not have to be spread across the country. This, of course, worsens segregation. Mr President, I would like to One of the most important efforts to reduce segregation is to invest in the important activities for which the municipalities are responsible. It is not least about school, social services and care for the elderly. The Government is historically investing heavily in raising state subsidies to municipalities. They mainly go to the parts that the municipalities themselves can control, but it is also aimed at the school. We do this because the municipalities are an important kitt and have the opportunity to adapt the operations according to the local conditions. They can best ensure that their own citizens, local residents, do not become dependent on income support but can move on to becoming fully established citizens. The Swedish Democrats are a party that, in its draft budget, targets a manslaughter battle against the municipalities and has large billion-dollar withdrawals from the municipalities. Mr President, I would like to One of the most important elements of the policy to reduce segregation is to ensure that everyone has work. It is dangerous to be unemployed and especially to be unemployed for a long time. It will be particularly dangerous if unemployment is concentrated in certain residential areas. That is why we are investing heavily in active labour market policies. Unlike what Paula Bieler thinks, this has nothing to do with ethnicity. Our policy is not based on ethnicity. This has to do with the position of the labour market. People who find it difficult to find a job have the right to receive support from labour market policies. People who have easy access to jobs do not receive support.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1288	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his confession. There are certain things on which we agree. That is the case in politics. We agree that early establishment is very good for people who come here to Sweden. But we do not agree on sfi and social orientation. Although the Minister did not mention employment, I am critical of the removal of the internships organised by the Migration Agency. We also agree on EBO. Something needs to be done there, and it would be good if measures were taken. Now there are some measures in the proposal on unaccompanied minors. It would be good to break out this particular part, because it is important. Perhaps the government can come back to this. My question is about establishment and the difference between the government's start-up job, which is now under discussion, and our proposal on admission. The Government says that more structural changes are needed. We believe that entry is a structural change. The state has worked a lot with various subsidies. What we are proposing is that the state should set a framework. Then employers and the individual themselves will have to solve the problem of how jobs are to be created. What's the difference between a new start job and a start-up job? Actually, it's just a tax subsidy that disappears. When I have counted on the proposal, it is a tax of 4 000 kroner that disappears. What's the big difference, and what's the big new thing about the start-up jobs? I believe that rice is tied to its own back, because it will be about the economic cycle in terms of how many people can subsidize with jobs such as these. I think the system of entry jobs is much better.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1295	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that I share the view that it was very good when the Migration Agency had an internship. But the Migration Agency has had a huge workload. I thought it was reasonable to give priority to the processing of asylum cases and perhaps to scale off some other things when the workload at the Migration Agency was so severe. It is possible that it may come back at a later stage, but right now it has been felt right to give priority to handling such important decisions for people. Unfortunately, the internship has had to stand down. I expect that we will receive proposals for EBO from the reception inquiry that is due to hand over its proposal in March. Then we can work on these proposals. We are already engaged in a dialogue with the local government sector on these issues. Many, of course, are involved in the design of the whole thing. What is the exact difference between the start-up contracts agreed by the parties and other subsidised contracts already in place today, Mrs Pethrus asked. We will ultimately have to respond to that when we are finished with the talks and negotiations we are in now. I think that you are doing yourself a disservice if you only look at the levels of compensation and the design. For the parties, an important part has been about the simplicity of employers, and they want to ensure that they get a match that works better than they think that Arbetsförmedlingen's matching is doing today. Workers must ensure that there are full collective agreements in force. One should aim for a permanent employment that both solves the insecurity of the individual and manages the employer's skills supply. These are important parts. The Parties must agree on how to deal with conflicts that may arise in subsidised employment. One should not underestimate the importance of those elements of the agreement. But the design of the compensation system is also important. I do not want to reduce it in any way, but it is important to say that the other parts also exist.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1301	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister thinks the practice is good. Now it's a little sidelined. I think it was Angeles Bermudez-Bermudez-Svankvist who held on to those questions and himself led the work. I understand it worked well. It is a pity that the traineeships disappeared during the asylum examination period. But we hope that the government will come back to this. Then there was the question of the Alliance's proposal. We do not involve the state, but we try to make it easier: let employers and the individual themselves solve the situation, and we only put the framework in place. That's the difference. We do not need to subsidise employers. They may take the cost of taking in a person, but they may work at a lower salary. When I look online, I understand that start-up employment means that employers should pay, for example, 8 000. We say that you can pay up to 21 000, and then it will be 70 % of that amount. Then the government will go in with 7,000. We say that we should not subsidise but that employers should take the cost of taking in a person. Our entry jobs also involve a qualification for an open-ended position. I do not quite understand why, according to the Minister, the State must be involved in this type of subsidization. Why can it not be left to the labour market to solve the issues itself? Of course, that would be much easier. There's not much difference for the individual. It's about a few grand. In our proposal, the individual is also involved in paying taxes. It's a good way to get people in to start paying taxes.
i-938fdf8d0b8311a9-1305	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market is doing well. Much works just fine. It is a high employment rate among foreign born, higher than many comparable countries have for domestic born. Much works well in the Swedish labour market. I began my speech with this. This is largely due to the fact that the parties solve things themselves without the intervention of the state. It is the Swedish model, and we want to keep it. On Désirée Pethrus it may sound like she also thinks it is a good solution. I am pleased if the Christian Democrats land in that position. However, the proposal you have is not for the parties to take care of the matter themselves, but for legislation on lower wages. I say it again: if you want to legislate on lower salaries, you can vote for a government other than this one.
