i-c79ba6bd391381ae-0	Mr President, I would like to Everyone should be in favour of Sweden pursuing a coherent policy for sustainable development and that it should be a political driving force. Not least, it is important for the whole world to start working on the global and universal sustainability goals. But it is clearly a matter that is more difficult than the current government thought. Even the name of the letter that we are debating describes a little what the problem is: the policy for global development in the implementation of Agenda 2030. It's mixed up and messy. Possibly, the new sustainability goals, which apply globally to all countries, have run past the PGU. But since everyone agreed on the PGU, it is not something that the government dares to change. So instead it's some kind of double command – or rather double accounting. The letter that we have received to the Riksdag is based, anecdotal and cannot be followed up in any sensible way. Above all, there is a lack of information on how the government will deliver what it says it wants to do. Simplified it is possible to say that everything that is good that happens is included in global development policy, even if there is absolutely no political responsibility, a link to decisions on PGU, political governance and follow-up. PGU is no longer a driving force. PGU is a form of accounting. Mr President, I would like to There are probably quite few people who have actually read all the Ministry's PGU action plans and sustainability goals. This is possibly because the government did not dare to make them public or even send them to the Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee. Instead, they were available during office hours one day in February so that we could read them. It went pretty fast anyway. The Education Department's plan is a great disappointment. The Ministry of Justice is raising the fight against terrorism as the PGU. The Ministry of Labour is being transferred to make the Prime Minister's Global D eal be PGU. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs claims that their plan to implement feminist foreign policy is PGU. The most reasonable was the Ministry of Finance's plan, but then they counted the gender network of the Minister of Finance to PGU. The government should be proud of its action plans and publish, target and measure them and describe the difference that PGU makes in reality. That is not the case today, quite the opposite. Mr President, I would like to Another example of how the current government prioritises PGU is that the responsible minister has actively chosen not to be here today. The Minister for Development himself has come up with a conference today in Brussels. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the current government is happy to talk but does not deliver. There was every opportunity to pursue forward-looking policies and actively incorporate sustainability objectives. But you haven't taken advantage of the opportunity. Mr President, I would like to I agree with our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1. The Moderates describe that sustainability goals are positive and that there is a clear accountability for implementation. The Government will act for coherence within and between policy areas both nationally and in municipalities, county councils and civil society. We also require the government to come back with sharp proposals on how to improve analysis, knowledge development and reporting, including the design of the announced new accounting model. Mr President, I would like to Let me also take this opportunity to say once again that I miss the Minister for the Future. At least there was someone with overall responsibility in the government. I would also like to take this opportunity to apologise to everyone who listens for the fact that this important issue is more about form than about the substance of politics. But we are debating the letter we received, and it was rather bad.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-13	Mr President, I would like to In 2003 a united chamber decided on global development policy. All policy areas should contribute to a fair and sustainable global development that puts the perspective of rights and poor people's perspectives at the centre. Since then it has been 14 years, and we have seen several new beginnings here in Parliament. Mr President, I would like to It's time to face reality. In its report, the Expert Group on Aid Analysis showed that 1 000 results re-reporting that something has been done – it applies to several governments – showed that there was hardly any focus on conflicts of interest. I note that the letter we are now dealing with, the last fresh start, is in danger of confusion. According to the expert group, the SDG and PGU concept contributes to uncertainty, including responsibility. These are vague formulations, for example, promoting and helping to do that. There is a lack of clear objectives. There is talk of new follow-up but not how it looks. This is what the Expert Group on Aid Analysis says. Mr President, I would like to Parliament reviews and decides. We have tried to push for greater transparency, clarity and follow-up. The Parliament discussed 2007/ 08 six global development goals that were identified. It was about how to follow them up on the political part, coordination, knowledge and how far you had come. That was part of the responsibility we took for the then government to follow what OECD-Dac had seen in its review. It was seen that improvements had taken place but felt that we should do more to make it clear. Mr President, I would like to I felt that we then got an improvement in the reporting of the six global challenges that were identified. In the re-reporting to the Riksdag, we gained greater clarity, not least regarding conflicts of interest. They were highlighted, and the government also gave us its assessment of how to deal with them. It gave us, as examining members of parliament, an opportunity to follow developments. With the latest start of PGU, launched by the government with Isabella Lövin and others, I experience a clear step backwards. It really is an example collection. A little unclear, it is said to apply in 2014 – 2016 while giving examples of what to achieve by 2017. The ambition level is said to be elevated, with special ambitions in five areas for 2014 – 2016. The letter is said to present objectives and conflicts of interest in five thematic areas. Yes, in the title, but where the conflicts persist, according to the government, is almost impossible to interpret. On this basis, it is also very difficult to see how the government assesses how different conflicts of interest should be handled. It is also said that the letter should show a lack of exploited potential for coherence. I amused myself with search engines and saw that this was mentioned in two places in the letter, partly on p. 2, partly on p. 10, and both were initial corrections. So much for revealing flaws — no more meat on those bones was given elsewhere. The government is therefore talking about an increase in ambition and a boost in knowledge, but I perceive a clear decline in ambition and almost a brain drain based on what we have done in the past. It sounds big, but we had the opportunity to review the action plans for a few hours. It would give us a little more meat on our legs to see if there was anything behind there that had not arrived. But for those of us who read these action plans, it felt like it was a Christmas tree that stood inside and had lost all the needles. It's a whole series of words that are more about Agenda 2030 and some different pictures. But when it comes to the PGU perspective, the reader is left almost without an answer. Perhaps this is due to the resignation of the Minister for the Future mentioned in the letter just before the government adopted it. There was a change of government, and perhaps that is why the strategic measures for which the Minister for the Future would be responsible are missing. Perhaps they had other things to do so that they did not appear in the letter, but they were not included in the action plans that we read. According to the Government's letter, PGU should be a tool, but the Riksdag has set itself the goal of achieving fair and sustainable global development. This is what you would respond to. It is not a tool but a goal that Parliament has stated. Since the adoption of the PGU in 2003, all governments have had difficulties in getting around, finding focus, setting targets, highlighting conflicts of interest and trying to make things all connected. But as I mentioned earlier, I perceived that the previous government had come up with something that began to operationalize and that the parliament could review, follow up and debate. Now we see that you are back in a gray haze – a fog, I would say. Against this background, it is clear that Parliament must give the government a mandate to reconsider. From our side we have seen that there are new conditions. Agenda 2030 provides a completely new architecture for our development policy and for our own national policies, because we have a national responsibility. This means that we need to find a way to reconcile Agenda 2030 with PGU. This, as we see it, requires a parliamentary review so that we can focus and make a move together. Otherwise, this is becoming increasingly spagat policy. We think it is reasonable for Parliament to demand a better consensus in this area, because we should do something together by 2030, when we should have reached the goals of Agenda 2030. The Government has said that an expert delegation has been appointed for Agenda 2030, which on 31 May this year will submit an overall action plan and will then continue to work until 2019. It is exciting that there is a group of experts, but would it not be reasonable for Parliament to indicate that we want to see an increased parliamentary force so that we can get the agendas together and get together so that we get good results for 2030, when the goal is to be achieved? That is why, Mr President, we want to see a move. We have tabled this as a reservation in paragraph 1, and I therefore ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-31	Mr President, I would like to This year it has been 65 years since the Central Committee for Swedish Technical Assistance to Less Developed Areas was formed and Sweden started its state aid. During these six decades of development cooperation, we have been able to learn many lessons in Sweden, both from our successes and from our failures in Swedish aid. We know today that aid makes a difference, and we know what it takes to make a difference. If aid is to make a difference, it must be long-term. Development challenges are rarely solved during a financial year; we must be sustained if we want to make a difference. If aid is to make a difference, it must be predictable. Our allies and partners around the world must know that our country is behind them, not only today but tomorrow as well. Our opponents must also know that our voice does not stop and that Sweden's commitment can be trusted, for example in terms of women's and girls' rights and civil society. If aid is to make a difference, it must also be coherent with all other policies. Aid alone will not change the world. A trade policy, migration policy and climate change policy will be required to reduce poverty and increase respect for human rights. It was therefore a major and important step when the Riksdag 14 years ago adopted the policy for global development and stated that Sweden's policy should be coherent and that all policy areas should be permeated by a rights perspective and based on the poor's perspective on development. It was a united parliament that adopted the PGU 14 years ago, and I doubt that anyone in this House today would question the importance of coherence or global development policy. The problem is not the rhetoric we hear in this House when we discuss the PGU. Nor is it the words of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report that are the problem or what the government writes in its letter. The problem arises when the PGU is to be translated into the daily political work and when different interests are put against each other in the political work around the various government departments. 14 years after the PGU was adopted, the challenges remain great. Although progress has been made, no one can today say that Sweden has a coherent policy or that all policy areas are permeated by a rights perspective and poor people's perspectives on development. It was hardly the case that it was based on a rights perspective when it approved this summer that Saab should sell surveillance systems for SEK 11 billion to the dictatorship of the United Arab Emirates, even though this country is deeply involved in the devastating warfare in Yemen. It is difficult to see that the government has started from the poor's perspective on development when it has opposed important efforts against capital and tax evasion, such as public country-by-country accounting. The rhetoric about coherence and PGU also felt very distant when the government decided that Vattenfall's German coal mines could be sold to a Czech venture capital company. These examples clearly show how aid's opportunities for change are being torn apart by policy decisions in other areas. It is an inefficient way of using our tax resources, but worse still, it makes it more difficult for millions of men and women around the world to free themselves from poverty and oppression. For how will the SEK 300 million that Sweden has given in humanitarian aid to Yemen be able to alleviate the extreme distress in the country if, at the same time with the other hand, Sweden sells arms to the countries and states that bomb Yemen and have created the humanitarian disaster? How will the governments of Zambia, Bolivia and Nepal be able to build up health care and education for their citizens if these governments lose $10 in tax evasion for every penny they receive in aid? And how will a small farmer in Burkina Faso or a factory worker in Bangladesh improve his life situation as long as you continue to burn German lignite, release carbon dioxide and drive an already serious climate change that is, above all, already hitting women and the world's poor? We in the Left Party have shown in our motion and in our various reservations how Sweden could seriously pursue a more coherent policy and resolve more of the clear conflicts that we see, for example in terms of trade, migration and climate policy. We have shown how Sweden could have a more coherent policy on women's and girls' rights and decent working conditions, and against capital flight, hunger and land grabbing. Mr President, I would like to The government has now launched a so-called new start for global development policy. As we heard earlier, this is not the first fresh start. It is as soon as possible that it is an obligatory for each minister of aid to present it. But the changes that the government's new start of PGU entails are mainly about how the work with PGU should be organised and how the goals of PGU should be formulated. The Left Party has welcomed several of the elements contained in the Government's letter. We think it is good to raise ambitions, to strengthen the work with PGU in the Government Office and to have chosen to design more operational goals for the future work, which says more about what the government should do. It is fundamentally good that PGU is evaluated and that responsibility is clarified within the Government Office. On several points, we would have liked further steps to be taken. We would have liked a more independent evaluation of global development policy. We would have liked to have seen the Riksdag included more clearly in the work with PGU. And we would have liked to have seen the clear conflicts of objectives between different policy areas clarified. At the same time, I want to be very clear that it is not evaluations and reorganisations in the Government Office that alone will solve the major challenges that we see with the policy of global development and its implementation. That is not what will solve the lack of coherence in Swedish development policy. If Swedish policy is to be truly coherent, and if all policy areas are to make a serious contribution to development and poverty reduction, it is necessary to have a political will to address the clear conflicts of objectives in different policy areas. Unfortunately, we do not see the political will to resolve these fundamental conflicts of objectives in the so-called relaunch of the government. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 3.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-52	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 18, which deals with the role of women in conflict prevention and peace talks. We live despite challenges, uphills and age-old structures in the time of opportunity. There has never been a better time to be born than the one that is right now. I think it is important that we in this House sometimes also give thought to the huge journey of success and freedom that our country has made over the last 120 years, because more countries can make that journey. The most important thing for starting a spiral of success is to give these countries the same tools that we once had. That is why, in debate after debate, we Liberals will continue to focus on democracy and that we must support democrats in other countries, because democracy is crucial for people's freedom and opportunities. It is no coincidence that the least free countries are also the poorest. Where people are not allowed to choose their leaders and express themselves freely, they are also often prevented from owning, trading, inheriting, mortgageing or signing contracts. It goes without saying that such rules stifle people's creativity. But democracy is backing up globally for the eleventh year in a row. That is why we Liberals regret the fact that the most important objective was again missing when the UN was to adopt the new development goals. Democracy is only a sub-heading. When the rest of the world's countries are hypocrites, Sweden's role is to be firm in principle all the more important. That is why we Liberals once again believe that democratisation must shape our policy – foreign policy in general, aid policy and, not least, global development policy. Democracy does not grow by itself. Sadly, we see this in Europe today and in many other places in the world. Looking back on history, we see how democracy is a garden that we must constantly water, and without democrats on the ground democracy withers. In the poorer part of the world, the lack of reforms is a greater problem than the lack of resources. The legislative bodies in these countries must act themselves to clean up corruption and liberalise the economy. States which instead carry out democratic reforms, promote human rights, equality and transparency and reduce corruption must also be rewarded for this. Today, when we specifically discuss global development policy, I feel a little bit like a veteran in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I was a member of the committee as early as 2003 when the first global development policy was adopted. The discussions then and now are very similar. It can be said that the challenges highlighted by Mr Linde in his speech are also very similar on this front. Speaking with one voice, whether it be trade, security policy, defence, aid, globalisation or human rights, is often difficult and difficult politically. Sometimes different interests stand against each other, and then it is even more important that the values are sharp. The Lacquemus test for all of us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and for all the elected Members of this House will take place in the spring when we will indeed see the great and ultimate conflict in global development policy. This is, of course, about Swedish arms exports. In the summer of 2015, the so-called KEX investigation proposed a democracy criterion for Swedish arms exports. This requirement shall make it possible to stop exports to countries where there are serious and widespread violations of human rights or serious deficiencies in democratic status. A change of law would have come in April of last year, but nothing has happened. Now it is soon April again, and the government has still not introduced a democracy criterion. There are many parties watching this issue intensively now. Mr President, I would like to There is a risk that the weapons we sell to despots around the world will fall into the hands of the forces that we claim to want to counter with other ideals of global politics. Above all, this could be about Islamic terrorists in the Middle East. The war in Syria has now lasted as long as World War II. In Syria and Iraq, we have seen how Daish daily exposed thousands of girls and women to serial rapes and how girls who are barely nine years old are sold as sex slaves to a thousand. The girls and women who have been Daish's violence urgently need the help of doctors and psychologists. Massive aid schemes are also needed to secure these girls' schooling. This shows that a policy of global development must also deal with the migration field, the refugee field and aid together, where values must not fail. Sweden is now in the UN Security Council. We are not there to create a pleasant atmosphere at the meetings. We're gonna make a real difference to people everywhere in the world. We Liberals have chosen to reserve ourselves with a focus on the vulnerability of girls and women in war zones. This issue must become enormously more acute. We refuse to watch women's bodies become targets of terrorist groups and state armies using mass rape as weapons. For sexual violence in armed conflicts to end, impunity for crimes against women and girls must also be abolished. Here it is important that the government push, not least through more international efforts to protect women. However, it is also important that participating staff are trained in accordance with Security Council Resolutions 1325 and 1820. I would also like to stress that it is important, as we have mentioned in previous debates, to establish a fund for women and children who have been subjected not least to Daish's violence. Here a Swedish feminist foreign policy can seriously make a difference. Mr President, I would like to The world must work harder to find solutions to conflicts, not just that in Syria. We will do so through the UN Security Council and within EU cooperation. Here, too, in the absolute fineness of global politics, the voice must be consistent and clear in many different ways. Recently, Daish reclaimed the world heritage city of Palmyra, and it is reported that further parts of the unique cultural heritage found on the site will have been blown away. Similarly, we have seen how the terrorist organisation has dealt with the cultural heritage of Iraq. This is also part of a coherent policy on this front. Together with the rest of the free world, we must better assist the peoples of the Middle East in their quest for democracy and peace. To return to Palmyra, we must also take part in the work to save the common history of all, and we must do so with perseverance and vigour. Once the powder dust has settled and people can return, Sweden must be ready to give its support. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a medium-sized country in the EU and a small country in the UN, but we can and must make a difference by particularly pushing those issues that are politically sensitive to other countries. Here, the policy for global development will also be challenged – here, Sweden must respond when other countries fail the human rights that can be sensitive, whether it be LGBTQ people's rights or women's human right to free abortion. It is not only on the basis of liberal principles or cosmopolitan beliefs that it is right to support the good forces that, at the risk of life, are fighting for peace, freedom and democracy. Today, it is also a matter of a pure survival strategy. To quote a former leader of my party, Per Ahlmark : It is also important to keep a global development policy together.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-75	Mr President, I would like to The overall objectives of Sweden's development cooperation must be to uphold human dignity, promote human rights and democracy and raise the living standards of poor people. The individual's situation must always be the focus of this work. Greater participation in society, stronger civil societies and greater dissemination of power and resources promote the conditions for sustainable development. Global development efforts make a difference. The UN Millennium Goals on halved world poverty, improved access to clean water and better living conditions in slum areas were successful, and more and more boys and girls are able to go to school. But we cannot and must not be satisfied when almost 1 billion people go hungry or when the universal, inviolable human rights in many places are only a luxury dedicated to a chosen few. For every mouth saturated, for every woman entering the labour market and for every individual allowed to think, write, speak, vote and worship freely, the chances of development are greater. However, aid efforts alone cannot bring about economic growth, freedom and development; they must be part of a coherent policy in support of democracy and human rights and the development of poor countries. Trade and aid policy must work together to ensure the sustainable integration of poor countries' economies into the global economy. For example, freer world trade with fairer rules of the game is a prerequisite for narrowing the gap. It provides the conditions for people in the least developed countries to rise out of poverty and oppression with their own strength. Sweden's policy for global development, PGU, which we are debating here today, Mr President, sets the framework and ambition for the Swedish contribution to fair and sustainable global development. Swedish development cooperation is an important tool in these efforts, but it is about that all policy areas can and should contribute to sustainable global development. The new global framework for sustainable development represents a common international agenda. The universality of the 2030 Agenda, unlike the Millennium Goals, places far greater demands on national policies and on a careful analysis of the global impact of national policies. The government's intention with this PGU letter is also precisely to be able to analyse what these global effects will be, but unfortunately I do not think that this has been achieved, Mr President. There is a lot of talk about new beginnings, increasing ambition and going ahead, but not just to stop at beautiful words requires more concreteness than that. Where are the specific increases in ambition? Where are they in words, and where are they in action? Yes, there is a need for clarification of roles, action plans – which we Christian Democrats want to be public – and so on, but it is also about the way in which the special interests of the ministries are allowed to govern when a matter is to be decided. Target conflicts need to be made visible and made subject to informed and considered choices. How to identify, address and manage contradictions between national objectives in different policy areas and global goals to ensure sustainable development in our world? For example, what the Christian Democrats consider incompatible with the PGU is the current arms export legislation. It is problematic, to say the least, when Sweden exports war material to regimes that oppress its citizens while at the same time providing support for human rights and democracy activists. How, then, do we Christian Democrats want to see work on global development policy developed? Firstly, in our reservation, we propose that a permanent parliamentary committee be set up – a committee that periodically reviews the work of the government and its authorities on the implementation of the PGU. We regret that the government lacks proposals on how to review and monitor the work. How will the Riksdag, which has the task of reviewing the Government, be able to monitor the government's performance? As I said, we would like to see public action plans for the work of the various departments, if we talk purely organisationally. The government often has a very high tailings when it comes to openness and transparency; for example, we have been able to take part in the plans for the Security Council seat, where we can almost say that elections were held on the stick of more openness as both targets and means. This should also apply to PGU work. Parliament's decision of 2003 on a Swedish policy for global development, based on the bill Joint responsibility: Sweden's policy for global development, has been mentioned in the debate. We were definitely at the forefront there, but with great efforts globally – and with Agenda 2030, the Addis Summit on Financing for Development and the Paris Climate Summit – the world has somehow caught up, at least in terms of processes and approach with a broad sense of responsibility. This is positive, but if the government is serious about us now 15 years later being able to talk about continuing to be at the forefront – talking about a restart and a new venture worthy of the name – more is required than the letter we are debating here today. Finally, Mr President, the Christian Democrats naturally support all their reservations. They're important. They are about increased efforts to improve maternal health and reduce child mortality, about increasing free trade and about the importance of highlighting religious freedom – which is not even mentioned in the new sustainability goals. However, for time-winning, Mr President, I only agree to reservation No 4 under paragraph 1. It is about the possibility of implementation and a review of the PGU.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-86	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating global development policy in the implementation of Agenda 2030. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, Dorsen is breaking cobalt in the mine. Dorsen is eight years old. The cobalt is then used in mobile phones. Children are used as labor to get our phones. Many mines are controlled by guerrilla groups, and the struggle for assets runs conflicts in the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries. We are receiving reports of mass rape, child labour and unacceptable working and living conditions in the area. This is somehow where it becomes relevant to talk about policies for global development. We can support democratic forces in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and we can help build education systems, but if we do not at the same time ensure that the products we demand are free from child labour and do not contribute to armed violence, eight-year-old Dorsen will have to continue to slave in the mine instead of going to school. The democratic forces will then continue to be challenged by armed guerrilla groups. Global development policy is about what we do in aid being supported by what we do in trade policy. What we are doing in the climate area should not be counteracted by what we are doing in foreign policy either. Global development policy is so much bigger than aid. Of course, there are difficult trade-offs, and the government refers to some of them in the letter. One example is private consumption and sustainable development. Everyone can see that it is not sustainable that our mobile phones contain components acquired by children. But how do we ensure that we as consumers can make a difference? Yes, for example, Sweden can impose requirements on global standards for labelling products, so that producers are forced to find out what the production chain looks like and consumers can make informed choices. In the case of several other conflict minerals – tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold – the EU and the US are taking steps to limit the possibility of selling minerals from illegal mines that finance armed groups. Child labour in mines is also combated by the existence of decent jobs for women and men, with decent conditions and wages, as well as respect for human rights and gender equality. This is something that Sweden can work for, among other things, by supporting the UN's ILO trade union organisation, but it is also about how we design our trade agreements with poor countries and about development cooperation for basic social protection. Work is the most important way out of poverty. With our overall policy, we will support the right conditions and globalisation that benefits both workers, employers and society. Global development policy is a responsibility for all policy areas. It is therefore very positive that there is now responsibility in all departments and that each department is drawing up action plans. We have heard earlier in the debate from, among others, the Moderates and the Center Party on these action plans. However, it seems to me that the work is awkward from some quarters cannot be interpreted as anything other than the fact that this work has been underpriority for a long time. Now the government is making a fresh start. If the work in the ministry doesn't tick like a clock from the first second, it's ticking anyway! We have action plans, we have PGU managers in each department and we have interdepartmental working groups to develop the work. This is really good and a prerequisite for an even better result. The Swedish Parliament's opportunity to follow up on the work with PGU we believe is crucial for the work to be successful and well established. It therefore feels good that the government in the dialogue with the committee has made it clear that the Riksdag should be able to monitor and evaluate the work, and we look forward to continuing the dialogue on this. A feminist foreign policy obliges, and I can proudly say that I think that Sweden succeeds well. Gender equality is fundamental to the government's entire work for global development. An important area for gender equality work is SRHR, sexual and reproductive health and rights. As you probably know, Isabella Lövin is attending today on behalf of Sweden at a donor conference in Brussels on SRHR, in response to the Mexico City policy, or gag rule, which Donald Trump reintroduced as one of the first decisions he made as newly-responsive president. The right to one's own body is a fundamental human right. But women in many places around the world are deprived of the obvious right. She has no right to decide with whom to marry or when to do so. She has no right to decide if and how many children she wants to give birth. She has no right to control her own body. This, of course, leads to great difficulties for many women. Many women die in 2017 from complications associated with pregnancy and childbirth. Many of these deaths are due to the fact that the woman cannot have access to a safe and legal abortion but is forced to turn to quacks to interrupt a pregnancy that she cannot proceed with for various reasons. No one – absolutely nobody – should believe that abortions will be reduced by making it even more difficult for women to have access to abortion care. Unfortunately, this will only result in more girls and women dying of unsafe abortions. Reducing maternal mortality was the most advanced Millennium Goal, although much progress was made. Now we have new global sustainability goals, and the work continues. But a global development policy that benefits everyone – girls and boys as well as women and men – is also about security. Armed violence and the uncontrolled spread of small and light weapons are an obstacle to sustainable development. In addition to human suffering, small and light weapons cause considerable economic and social costs that prevent countries from developing. The existence of weapons is a major development barrier, and Swedish arms exports are an example of target conflicts that the government addresses in the letter. Later in the spring, we will take a position on new armaments legislation. There, the sustainability perspective must be prominent, as it will be. Swedish weapons should not prevent global development. In South Sudan people have now begun to die of starvation. In this land rich land, people are starving to death. The civil war has laid the foundations, but the fact that 9 percent of the land that could have produced food for South Sudan's children is rented to others is also important in this context. Land grabbing is a real problem for the population of many fragile, corrupt states. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Government's letter highlights its intention to promote the development of transparent systems ensuring access rights and access to land, fisheries and forests in developing countries for both women and men. This is not a solution for the people who are starving today in South Sudan. They need urgent access to food and water, and they need peace. But long-term that is the way forward. Mr President, I would like to In the Riksdag there is a broad consensus on global development policy, and we want to be clearly involved in the further work of the Riksdag. This includes both giving us good opportunities to evaluate the government and that we can participate in developing the process for the future. I look forward to further work. In doing so, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-111	Mr President, I would like to Now all the speakers in this debate have talked about the importance of coherence and the importance of global development policy, but we still see clear conflicts in Swedish development policy. We see in the area by area how policies in one area break the possibilities for aid to achieve its objectives and to be successful. But no conflict in Swedish development policy is as clear as the one between Swedish arms exports and Swedish development policy. Just as Birgitta Ohlsson put it earlier, this in some way becomes the lacquer mouse paper for this new start. If the government is to speak seriously about a new start for Swedish policy for global development, it must tackle the clear conflict of objectives that has been created by Swedish arms exports. Last year they granted permits for arms exports to Thailand, a military dictatorship, which is clearly in conflict with the ambition to contribute to democratisation. New permits were granted to Saudi Arabia, while this dictatorship is bombing civilians in Yemen. New permits were granted to Pakistan, which is a country with enormous challenges in terms of human rights, poverty and social inequalities. All of these are examples of clear conflict of objectives. Now Maria Andersson Willner says that the sustainability perspective will be prominent in the new arms export legislation that the government will present later this spring. It is a little unclear what this means, so I would like to ask for clarification. Will the new legislation to be presented by the government mean that we now have arms export legislation that is consistent with aid policy? Will we have arms export legislation based on a rights perspective and from the perspective of the poor on development?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-116	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Linde for the questions. I look forward to the debate that we will have here later in the spring. I am sure that the Government's proposal will contain clear wordings on policies for global development and democracy criteria and that this will lead to a sustainability perspective and clarification of the conflict of objectives that we see in this area.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-118	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that today we cannot give details of a forthcoming bill on new legislation, but I would like clarity on the part of the government. This should be obvious after the government has talked so clearly about a fresh start and about taking seriously the problems and shortcomings that have existed in the global development policy – now we are seriously going to create coherence. It should, of course, be said now that the proposal that will be put forward on arms exports will be fully in line with the global development policy. It should be obvious that one can say that it will be legislation that is fully consistent with aid policy, which will mean that Swedish arms exports will in future be based on the poor's perspective on development and from a clear rights perspective. I heard Maria Andersson Willner say that there should be writing about PGU and writing about a democracy criterion. However, I would have liked it to be even clearer today, because it should be clear to everyone in this House that, if we are serious about the general rhetoric we have about PGU and coherence, we should also support an arms export legislation in which this applies.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-121	Mr President, I would like to Arms exports are identified in the Government's letter as one of the most difficult target conflicts that we have to deal with in global development policy. I believe that we will push and wet this in the debate that is now following on from the new draft armaments export legislation. I believe that we will be much clearer in that legislation than we have been in the past. It's also a new time. The old legislation has a few years on its back, and it is important that we adapt to the current situation. I cannot promise that Mr Linde and I will be in full agreement in that debate. However, I can promise that we will have a thorough discussion on how to deal with this difficult conflict of objectives, so that Swedish arms exports do not contribute to the deterioration of poor people and, from a sustainability point of view, impair the development of poor countries.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-123	Mr President, I would like to There is a great value in consensus, but when the form of policy is to try to push in everything possible that has been decided in different ways and that is not always linked to the PGU, as the zero vision of traffic from one of the action plans, then this is eroded. The current government says it wants more. But that is not enough, because delivery is also required. I mean, I want peace on earth and a pony, but it's not just gonna happen. A first step is then to put forward proposals that are political, measurable and follow-up. Then my question is whether it is Maria Andersson Willner's view that this letter contributes to this.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-125	Mr President, I would like to My firm opinion is that the letter gives the government's view on how to develop a policy of coherence. Then I agree with Sofia Arkelsten that we have the new sustainability goals. How we handle the two different processes is a development work. However, we fully agree that global development policy should be follow-up and guided by political objectives. I also agree with Sofia Arkelsten that Parliament has an important role to play in following and pointing this out to the government, and I think we have done so. We also have an ongoing dialogue on how to continue this work.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-127	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we have some reasonable wording in the report. The letter leaves some other things to be desired, but we had some kind of cooperation there which was still quite good. The current government says they want something, but they do not make any direct proposals. What is in the letter is shallow and anecdotal and it cannot be followed up. Then it becomes very irresponsible and also unsolidaric, because it must be possible to follow up and to show results. My firm opinion is that the current government must take responsibility. There'll be elections again soon. It can't be blamed on the Alliance. The sustainability objectives are new and a huge opportunity, but my view is that the government did not take it.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-131	Mr President, I would like to I do not share Sofia Arkelsten's view that the government did not take the opportunity. What we can see is a fresh start. As I said, not everything may be perfect at the first attempt, but there is good will and a good foundation to stand on. The letter has identified some of the conflicts of interest that have been specifically deepened and sought answers to, and concerns sustainable entrepreneurship, capital and tax evasion, sustainable energy, consumption and production, and security and development. The letter has developed and pronounced both objectives and areas where we can find better synergies between different policy areas. I think it is a good account of what the government does and wants to do in politics precisely to create global development.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-134	Mr President, I would like to For clarity, I would like to hear from the government whether Agenda 2030 has taken over the PGU. Or is it that, according to the government's assessment, Agenda 2030 is tantamount to PGU? This is an ambiguity that the Xpert Group for Aid Analysis saw and which we see when we read the letter. How does the government interpret Agenda 2030 – as equal to PGU? Is that true or false? The next issue I would like to raise concerns an exciting area in the letter, namely the objective and conflict of interest regarding entrepreneurship in difficult markets. Here the government highlights its export strategy and talks about the value of it for employment, Swedish competitiveness and so on. I do not really see how conflicts of interest are being made visible and would like to hear Maria Andersson Willner's view on where conflicts of interest really lie, not least given that two government and trade delegations have visited Saudi Arabia and Iran. At the latest, to Iran, I heard the Prime Minister say that he did not know what trade union rules and legislation apply in Iran. I was a little curious when I heard this statement in the Swedish media, because it stands a little in contrast to what is cited in this part of the letter. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of armaments. The action plans say that PGU should be used where it is relevant to the issue. Then I wonder: How do you view PGU – as something in general?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-137	Mr President, I would like to Agenda 2030 and PGU are not the same. We now have a more comprehensive global agenda that is more similar to the work that we in Sweden have been trying to pursue for a long time. We look more broadly at the potential of policy, and there is also a specific objective of coherence. I am absolutely convinced that the government will come back on both Agenda 2030 and PGU and that we will have many opportunities to discuss this. However, global development policy is one way of looking at policy, while Agenda 2030 should be seen more as the goals we have jointly endorsed within the UN. There is a policy for sustainable entrepreneurship. I do not know whether Kerstin Lundgren is referring to the fact that it would have been more clearly included in this letter too. But it is clear that there are conflicts of interest and that Sweden has a responsibility to ensure that we have sustainable entrepreneurship in the difficult areas. In the case of Iran, there was a high trade union representative who participated in the Swedish delegation, so that perspective had been covered in the visit there. I've written PGU a little sloppy as my last resource. Kerstin Lundgren will have to return. I don't remember what you asked about and apologize for that.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-143	Mr President, I would like to In the sustainable entrepreneurship part there is a paragraph titled: Entrepreneurship in difficult markets. What are the objectives and conflicts of interest identified by the government? I have seen that nothing but the export strategy is highlighted and that in principle it is considered positive. I am therefore curious to hear what conflicts of interest have been identified. In the case of Iran, a government representative shall have informed trade delegations about sustainable entrepreneurship including the human rights situation and the government's expectations of participating companies. If the Prime Minister says that we do not know what the rules are in force in Iran, this will be a strange attitude. Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of armaments. One of the action plans that we had the opportunity to read states that one should try to bring PGU to the Export Control Council – when it matters for the discussion of the issue. I wonder whether the PGU does not play a role in dealing with all issues relating to arms exports. Here it sounds like it matters in some cases but not in others. I am a little curious as to how such a view of the PGU is consistent with what has been said here in the past.
i-CB3joZy1AZUzBd2i7sVYj1	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin, for the reminder! As far as the issue of armaments and PGU is concerned, we have some exports to Norway. My brief answer is that the PGU perspective may not be quite as relevant there. As far as Iran is concerned, I maintain that the Swedish Government had a well-composed delegation, including high-level trade union representatives who raised precisely issues of trade union rights. The Government's letter states that, in difficult markets, conflicts of interest and entrepreneurship may include shortcomings in respect for human rights, gender equality and working conditions, environmental and climate impacts, and problems with corruption and weak institutions. These conflicts of interest have been identified and the letter on global development policy seeks to address them.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-149	Mr President, I would like to We are here in this House today to discuss a letter on the PGU and Agenda 2030. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. To an outsider, it may not sound very inspiring. Many abbreviations fly around in the air; it is PGU, Agenda 2030 and a lot of different letters that have been put together. But behind the arid abbreviations perhaps lies the main driving force behind all political work, namely the desire for development. Yesterday I had the privilege of listening to a man who is researching international security policy. He told me about when he was in East Congo. It is a place ravaged by wars and conflicts for a very long time, and here at home it is perhaps best known from the reports of systematic rape and abuse of women and girls. He told us that these vulnerable women had been asked what they were most afraid of. We may think that the given answer is: Continued war and continued rape. But they said that our children are not allowed to go to school. Of course they do not want war or rape, but they saw that without education and faith in the future for children – a development policy – all this would continue. Here we have an important role to play. When the Prime Minister announced in the 2014 Government Declaration that the Red-Green Government would re-launch PGU, I was very pleased. As I said, PGU means policy for global development. For those of us who are involved in issues relating to aid, development work, development cooperation and fair trade, this was very gratifying. When the bill was presented in 2004 – it is a long time ago – Sweden showed the advances by putting the whole of Swedish politics in a global context. In 2014, we took it a step further. What we do here at home in Sweden has consequences not only for us but for all people, including those living in Somalia, Syria, India and China. This applies, for example, to our trade, our welfare, our climate and our environment. These are all global issues. What we do affects and is affected by developments in the outside world. We cannot solve these problems within our own borders. The world is changing rapidly. Since 1990, the proportion of people living in extreme poverty has fallen from 37% to barely 10%. During the same period, the proportion of chronically malnourished people has decreased by more than 40 per cent. Child mortality and illiteracy have been halved. Despite local setbacks, political and economic freedom has increased and wars have become fewer and less bloody. The world has become safer and better. At the same time, we must not sit back and think that everything is solved. Over the last few years, we have also seen worrying changes which indicate that our rights and freedoms, which have served us so well, are seriously threatened by fundamentalists, terrorists and populists. Just a few weeks ago I was in Brussels, and there I met the Polish women who have joined forces in a group called Gals for Gals. They joined forces to make sure that people went out on the streets to demonstrate against the intended new and much stricter abortion laws. Poland already had incredibly strict legislation in the past. They put 60,000 people on the streets and showed that this is not right. They won that battle. But who thought it would have to demonstrate in 2017 in order to retain the rights that we thought we had already won? The scope for civil society goes back in many places. Climate change is creating an increasingly uncertain and dangerous environment for people to live in. With the temperature increase that we now see, up to two degrees, 30 million people in Bangladesh will be without land. All of this affects not least the poorest of all. For this very reason, it was a major step forward for the entire international community and the UN when, in 2015, it was possible to agree on 17 global goals for sustainable development. This is called Agenda 2030, and it becomes a kind of PGU for all countries. In this House, the difference between PGU and Agenda 2030 has been discussed. When the government announced the coming of a new action programme and a new start for PGU, the 2030 Agenda had not arrived – it came a year after that. Agenda 2030 will be a kind of action plan. Up to 2030, which is not far away, the world's countries have committed themselves to eradicating poverty and hunger, fighting inequalities within and between countries, building peaceful, fair and inclusive societies, protecting human rights, promoting security, gender equality and women's and girls' empowerment, and ensuring lasting protection for the planet. What was so clearly established by a United Nations was that poverty and climate action go hand in hand. None of the 17 targets can be removed from the others. They build on each other. It is cool to see that Sweden has taken on leadership. In the past, I mentioned that many of the targets are moving towards the better. Fewer go to bed hungry today than yesterday. But there is one objective, No 14, where trends are negative, and it is about the seas. There is no joint UN body or international association that has the oceans as its own baby. Then what happened? Well, Sweden raised its hand and said: We can take care of target 14. We are good at infrastructure and organising meetings. We can make sure something happens. Together with Fiji, we will now arrange and host a conference at the UN House in New York. It will be the largest conference Sweden then organises the environmental conference in 1972 and the largest conference in the UN building with other recipients than the UN. There will be 7 000 – 8 000 participants. This leads the work forward. I am proud of Sweden, of this Parliament and of our red-green government, which has been so clear in its commitment to both PGU and Agenda 2030 as incredibly important things. We put on the global leadership shirt where we can do it and where we can make things easy. In the department's work with PGU, it has been very important that all departments have been involved. Action plans have been developed. These action plans make it necessary to think. The conflicts that may sometimes arise, as has been said here, may already be at departmental level, before it comes out. So it has been thought out so that things have creaked and broken before presenting proposals. I think it's very good. The letter we are discussing here today is based on these plans and shows an excerpt. Part of the work that is going on is not complete, nor is it said that all parts should be. I am very pleased with the work that is going on. I am pleased that the letter shows some of that work, and I hope that we can work together on PGU and Agenda 2030.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-169	Mr President, I would like to I note that Minister Lövin is not here in Sweden, when a conference in Brussels was held at the same time. This means that we will have to debate with the Government later. Then the Green Party has been affected by illness on the part of ordinary Members, and it is, of course, tough to come in like this for Emma Nohrén. Nevertheless, for the record's sake, I must note that the PGU was adopted in the Parliament in 2003, not in 2004. I have a question, too. Given that reference is made to the action plans, I am curious about the PGU perspective in the action plans. Could Emma Nohrén possibly describe the perspective that would be found in the action plans, as you chose to highlight them specifically in this context?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-171	Mr President, I would like to Of course Isabella would have liked to have been here, but this week she has been in Brussels negotiating the EU emissions trading scheme. Now she is at the She Decides conference to build a momentum in particular on the issues of sexual and reproductive health, which connects with several of the goals of Agenda 2030. I think she's out working on these questions. It's not like she's running away from a debate. The action plans contain operational objectives and measures that each department is expected to achieve within the PGU. The letter is based on those plans. It also shows the link between PGU and the objectives of Agenda 2030.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-173	Mr President, I would like to For us in committee, who have been in the department reading action plans for a number of hours, there is probably a big question mark about the concrete and clear objectives. What exists are Agenda 2030 objectives, which are mentioned as contributing to or touching on in other ways. But there is no clear goal for the work in the action plans what we could read if there was nothing that the government did not present. We have read all the Ministry's action plans and can say that it is a purely Agenda 2030 perspective. There is no PGU perspective other than in the title. But the PGU is more than Agenda 2030, Mr President. Finally, I have to ask: does Emma Nohrén think that there is a similarity between PGU and Agenda 2030?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-174	Mr President, I would like to No, I do not believe that there is a similarity between PGU and Agenda 2030. But Agenda 2030 is an excellent tool for developing goals for work on the policy for global development. I hope that the action plans will evolve over time. It is something quite new that we have started to develop this. I think it is very good that it has been developed, that you are working on this, that something is happening and that all departments are involved. We are responsible for each department at unit level. It is important that we get a communicative work from all departments and that we talk about these issues. I look forward with great confidence to the further work.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-175	Mr President, I would like to We shall then proceed to a debate with the Committee on Social Affairs, which deals with about 100 different requests from the general exercise on pharmacy issues. Medicines are a very important part of the Swedish healthcare system. I would like to begin by taking us back to what it was like to be a pharmaceutical customer in Sweden before the major pharmacy reform, which entered into force on 1 July 2009. If you got sick and needed drugs one late night it was not easy to get something, because there were not many pharmacies that were open at all. If my information is correct, there was a single pharmacy in the whole country that was open 24 hours a day – just a stone's throw from the Swedish Parliament, quite close to the Central Station. But even though there are many people living in Greater Stockholm, it was far from all the inhabitants of our kingdom who had the opportunity to obtain drugs one late night. On Sundays, there were not even many places where you could get medicines. There were unbelievably few pharmacies in the country that were open on Sundays. Sweden, together with Cuba and North Korea, were the only countries in the world to have a pharmacy monopoly. We were unique, and that was not a positive thing in this regard. We had very few pharmacies compared to all our European neighbours. That is something that is still a challenge today. Although we have improved accessibility and have had many more pharmacies, we still have barely half as many pharmacies per thousand inhabitants as our European neighbours, so there is probably still development potential. Since 2009, the number of pharmacies has increased by 429. That's an increase of 46 percent. The places with the highest density in the country per thousand inhabitants are today Jämtland, Västerbotten and Gotland. Many times when we discuss pharmacy issues, the challenges of rural areas are highlighted. No pharmacy in rural areas has been closed after the pharmacy reform. A total of five pharmacies have been closed throughout the country, but none of them were in sparsely populated areas. As far as the proposals under discussion today are concerned, as a Christian Democrat and representative of the Alliance, I am pleased that we in committee have obtained a majority for our proposals to make announcements to the government. It is important to raise the competence of pharmacies and take advantage of the resource that is there by improving the interaction between healthcare and pharmacies. It is important that we use the resource we have, especially when we know that care is otherwise very strained. I am also pleased that we have obtained the majority of the committee for our proposal to review the 24-hour rule. For those who do not know what this means, it is about the possibility for customers to get their medicines quickly. When I get into the pharmacy, I'll be able to get my medication within 24 hours. It's very important for anyone who needs their medication. However, it is also important that there is a possibility for pharmacies to obtain the medicine within 24 hours. These are not as strong demands as they can impose on suppliers today. This is an important area for continuing to increase customer satisfaction and safety in the pharmaceutical industry. We also have a majority for announcement to the government to return on the possibility for pharmacies to return medicines. Some drugs sell it a lot, and it's a constant rung. There are also some medicines that very few patients need. They are extremely expensive per pack. Today there is no guarantee for a pharmacy. If a customer comes in and says: I want this medicine, the pharmacist will order that medicine. But then maybe the customer won't come back for it. This may be tens of thousands of dollars, perhaps $100,000 for a single drug that the individual pharmacist has no opportunity to return. It is, of course, a huge cost that ultimately affects all other customers and us as taxpayers. It is also a waste of a medicine that cannot be used. It is important that we continue to develop this and that the government returns with proposals to Parliament that make it more effective use and ultimately better conditions, especially for us as taxpayers and pharmaceutical users. In addition to the changes that meant that we have had many more pharmacies, we have had better opening hours at pharmacies. It is incredibly important for us who are consumers at pharmacies. Opening hours have increased by an average of ten hours. Maybe it doesn't sound like much. But if it were to be converted into how many new pharmacies there would be in relation to how the old pharmacies were open, it would be equivalent to another 300 pharmacies. There is quite a lot with 300 pharmacies considering the 429 extra pharmacies that have also opened. We Christian Democrats have a number of reservations in the report that highlight how we should continue to improve pharmacies and the conditions for patients. However, for time to come, Mr President, I only support the Alliance's reservation No 1.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-185	Mr President, I would like to As the previous speaker said, medicines and their distribution and processing are very important parts of health care, and they also attract a great deal of interest and commitment, as shown by the number of exercises and the general debate. An increasing number of medical conditions can be cured with increasingly effective medicines, and it is essential that the active medicines are available to everyone in a safe, fair and equal way. Many medicines are also very expensive, and there is a lot of money involved in the pharmaceutical area. I do not need to remind the House that contributions to the benefits of medicines are our second largest budget line in our area of expenditure. The management of medicines is also a very delicate task in that it requires a high level of competence and skill to ensure the safety of patients. If this is about the motion requests and our debate in this House today. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the committee has been able to agree on a call for the government to produce a national list of medicines. It is very important that work on such a list is speeded up and intensified in order to create a safer and more efficient drug management while maintaining a high level of patient integrity. I would also like to highlight the support for the government expressed by a united committee in making Nalaxon available to people in the vicinity of opioid users. It is unacceptable, Mr President, that drug-related mortality is so high in Sweden. What can be done to prevent the deaths of drug addicts must also be done. It is extremely important that the government with amended legislation can resolve the issue in the long term. More importantly, however, it is possible to use the space available within the current regulations to allow those around those at risk of overdose access to Nalaxon, which in turn can prevent respiratory arrest when it can occur. Mr President, I would like to A larger part of the wise and well-meaning proposals contained in the exercise flora are either implemented or put for preparation on the government table, and other things are under investigation. In just one week from today, March 9, investigator Åsa Kullgren will present her interim report from the New Pharmacy Market Investigation to the Government. In the directives for the investigation, it is stated, among other things, that the investigator must: 中 a nalize any measures needed to ensure a good availability of pharmacy services throughout the country 中 b elysa organisational issues and issues related to competence development at pharmacies while considering how to achieve increased compliance with the current regulatory framework 中 a nalysing and proposing measures to improve medical advice in pharmacies • how to develop the role of pharmacies in improving the use of medicines. Mr President, I would like to Vidar can be noted that the investigator will: (a) reject any measures necessary to ensure compliance with the supply and supply obligations of medicinal products; This includes, in particular, analysing measures to ensure compliance with the so-called 24-hour rule. In brackets, I can say that this should be understood as there are no restrictions to uphold that rule. This applies to both distributors and suppliers. Finally, the outsider will, among other things: The current sectoral agreement on the return of medicinal products, as referred to by the previous speaker, is to be determined. If necessary, the investigator should consider whether rules on return of medicinal products should be included in the constitution. In that case, the investigator should assess whether such a regulation should apply to all medicinal products marketed in Sweden or whether it should be limited to certain medicinal products. Mr President, I would like to This is basically what the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats demand in their announcements. It is, in my view, an unserious symbolic policy not to be able to wait for the inquiry's proposal, but instead to push through three announcements in Parliament. Of course, I support all our reservations. However, in order to save time in this House, I would also prefer to support only one reservation, namely No 2 in paragraph 3. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-198	Mr President, I would like to The expression is usually used: One day's sun doesn't make a summer. That's not how it goes, but I lost it on the way.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-199	A cool one doesn't make a summer, thank you very much! In the same way, it is when there is an investigation. The Social Democrats must have their own views on the matter. How do the Social Democrats want to solve the problem? The fact that there is now an investigation and that it is about to come up with its proposals is not something we have seen yet. We hear little not swallows but other birds whisper that there will be proposals in this area. That is something we look forward to. We hope that these are concrete proposals and that they can be implemented quickly. But it is important that the government also assumes its responsibilities. Mr President, I would like to My question to Anna-Lena Sörenson is: What is the position of the Social Democrats? How do the Social Democrats want to solve the challenges that we still have and that cause some difficulties that ultimately have consequences both for the individual and for us as taxpayers?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-202	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Emma Henriksson says that there are many challenges and perhaps even problems in the new reform. She began her speech earlier by paying tribute to the reform as something that is almost perfect. But it's not. Of course we have an idea of these issues. As I said in my speech, this is an incredibly important part of health care. Personally, I would like it to be more integrated into health care. Perhaps that is what we have in common: we think that medicines and drug distribution should be a more natural part of the care chain, not least from a patient perspective. Of course, we want safe access to all medicines, environmentally sustainable handling of medicines and the development of health services – if this is what Emma Henriksson asks for. I am not quite clear about the challenges she means, but we can start with this.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-205	Mr President, I would like to I did not ask Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson's personal wish list for what you want, but what I asked for was this: what is the Social Democrats' – which is nevertheless the leading party in the government – proposal? What concrete proposals will you make to ensure that we are even better placed to comply with the 24-hour rule? What are the concrete proposals of the Social Democrats to ensure that what concerns the right of return is improved? The pharmacy regulation that the Christian Democrats took the lead in implementing has certainly brought enormous improvements. You can only look at how those who are customers at pharmacies experience it. It is a huge customer satisfaction, and this is because we have improved opening hours and availability. We have ensured that those who go to pharmacies receive a competent and friendly response. These are the factors that are most appreciated as a customer. There are, however, some things with which there were problems already before, but which were perhaps then overshadowed by the fact that we had so much bigger problems. As a pharmacy customer, you could stand for half an hour, an hour or longer in line to collect your prescription. It was a long way to the nearest pharmacy. They were not open at the times when many people needed to get their medicines. But it is clear that the problems that remain are important, and they must be resolved now. My question is still: what are the concrete proposals of the Social Democrats – not the wish list – and when will they be implemented?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-209	Mr President, I would like to I think we are doing what the Christian Democrats did when they were represented in the previous government: we are waiting for an ambitious investigation proposal before making our own proposals. That's how the procedures are done. We investigate in the usual order, we acquire knowledge and then we put forward the proposals that we think are adequate and good. But our focus is self-evident: We want equal care. Equal care means that everyone has good access to medicines and that everyone should be able to get them. Equal care means that we have safe handling, competent and skilled staff and of course friendly treatment. Of course, we all want that as customers. There are other areas, however, which Emma Henriksson has chosen not to mention. The customer, i.e. the patient, has a weak position in the market that Emma Henriksson's party was involved in introducing. It needs to be strengthened, for example. So there are areas to develop, but our focus is clear. We want a well-functioning pharmacy market that benefits an equal health care and good access to pharmacies everywhere in Sweden – throughout the country.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-212	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are now debating the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, which deals with various aspects of pharmacy and medicinal products. Emma Henriksson explained that there were 100 requests from the last two periods of exercise. Of course, we Moderates support a large part of the report and all our reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation No 1. As Emma Henriksson said, the Social Affairs Committee has proposed three announcements to the government. The committee wants pharmacies and health care to cooperate more closely. The committee also wants the government to come back with proposals for the right to return medicines and for a review of the 24-hour rule in relation to distributors. One may think differently in politics, and we do. It is clear what Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson and the Social Democrats think about the announcements. They think it's unserious and that you should wait because an investigation should be presented. Let me be clear that it is Parliament that is the Swedish legislature. This means that all new or amended laws must be made here, in this congregation. These may be investigations that are presented, and then watered down. But it is only when the proposals come to Parliament's table that we can take a stand. And at the pace that this government has had where matters get stuck in the ministry, we will have to wait until this fantastic investigation proposal comes on the table. Who knows? As I said, an interim report will be presented on 9 March. But if you are to be serious, remember that it is here in Parliament that decisions are made – in the legislature. Availability of pharmacy services has clearly improved following the re-regulation of pharmacies by the Alliance Government. It is important to continue to create the conditions for pharmacies to develop even higher quality and availability of services and services. As has been said, the reregulation of pharmacies has meant that the availability of pharmacies has increased throughout the country, but also that certain over-the-counter medicines can be sold at retail level. For a baby parent like me, it is amazing to be able to run out to the car and drive to the nearest store to buy something fever-reducing for my sick son. As I said, it makes a big difference in everyday life, and it makes it easier. Today, many people take this for granted, but as Emma Henriksson exemplified, it was not so long ago that it looked completely different. Although the Swedish Medical Products Agency has limited the sale of certain over-the-counter medicines in the retail sector, I assume that this will be followed up and evaluated. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson and the Social Democrats long defended the pharmacy monopoly and claimed that it guaranteed good accessibility and good service. For many years, the Social Democrats did not really do anything to improve the availability of pharmacies and over-the-counter medicines. One of the aims of the reregulation of the Swedish pharmacy market was to increase the availability of medicines for everyone in our country. A number of years have now passed since the re-regulation of the pharmacy market. Today there are just over 1,400 pharmacies in Sweden, which is an increase since the reregulation. We can see that there has been an increase in rural and rural areas and, above all, it is now possible to obtain over-the-counter medicines in the retail sector. To the Social Democrats who now raised their eyebrows, I can mention that, before the 2009 pharmacy reform, Sweden was the worst in the European class in terms of pharmacy density. Apoteken plays an important role in the healthcare chain. It can be further developed, and there are various proposals in the Moderate report. Among other things, there is a proposal for possibilities for further strengthening self-care with the help of pharmacists. There is a development potential here when it comes to entering the care chain by having the opportunity to offer more thorough medical advice and relieve primary care through simpler care services. As has been said, the report deals with various issues in the area of pharmacy and medicinal products. Medicines can properly make people both healthier and more able to work, thus also hindering negative development and unnecessary social security expenditure. It is good both for the individual and for society. We can see that medicines have a different role today. They take over the role of different treatment methods, and it is therefore important to acknowledge that new medicines are added and that those that already exist are improved in their effectiveness and safety. It is natural to strive for it. The pharmaceutical strategy developed the alliance parties and SKL together with a number of different actors in the field of pharmaceuticals. It is safe and secure that it is still there and that it is developing, and it is reassuring that the government is building on it and that there is a consensus. But, as I said, there are still great needs, and there are patients who are disadvantaged in this area. I will mention a trend in the use of antibiotics before I finish, Mr President. I see the speaking time is running out. The government says it wants to reduce the development and spread of antibiotic resistance and has developed different strategies for this. If you look at the figures from 2016 you can see that the use decreased. However, sales increased by 4.5 per cent for the age group 0 – 6 years. Sales increased by 1.5 per cent in the age group 7 - 19. The increased use of antibiotics in children rhymes badly with the government's strategy to combat antibiotic resistance. Mr President, I would like to There is much to do in this area. We are in favour of the report, but I only ask for the approval of reservation No 1.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-227	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to debate pharmacy and pharmaceutical issues. I will focus mainly on the announcements that we and the Alliance have supported. One of the issues raised in the first notice is the proposal to develop a model for increasing cooperation between healthcare and pharmacies. We believe it is important for the various actors to help guide patients through the care chain as far as possible. It should be borne in mind that increased cooperation between healthcare and pharmacies can play a crucial role in helping patients to correct their use of medicines. That is why we support this proposal, which means that there will be a holistic approach to the patient's best interests by putting the patient's health in focus throughout the care chain. The second announcement is that the government should review the 24-hour rule in relation to distributors. 95 percent of prescriptions customers get their medicines immediately when they arrive at the pharmacy, according to statistics from the Swedish Pharmacy Association. Instead, for the remaining 5%, the medicine is ordered with the intention of being able to deliver it to the customer within 24 hours, according to the so-called 24-hour rule. However, it is not uncommon that waiting for these customers can be longer than 24 hours. There may be various reasons for this, but pharmacies are still obliged to deliver within 24 hours. Their ability to live up to this delivery time lies entirely in the hands of the ordering and delivery times that drug distributors have decided against pharmacies. In other words, pharmacies cannot themselves affect these delivery times. That is why we believe that the 24-hour rule must apply throughout the pharmaceutical supply chain. It is therefore a question of patients not being affected by certain parts of this chain not delivering on time. From a patient's perspective, it is totally unacceptable to have to wait longer than 24 hours to get your medicine. Against this background, we support the announcement of the 24-hour rule. Mr President, I would like to The third announcement is a proposal on the right of return of medicinal products. Our support for this proposal depends on several aspects. First of all, it is because we believe that it is a waste that fully capable medicines are discarded instead of being returned back to the distributor. This is due to the fact that pharmacies do not currently have a formal right to return to the distributor. There are certainly guidelines in the return industry, but unfortunately they are not always followed. The absence of a formal right of return means that pharmacies must constantly make assessments based on the risk that a medicinal product will remain unsold. This ultimately goes over the availability of medicines in pharmacies. We believe that this proposal for a more formalised right for pharmacies to be able to return medicines would lead to pharmacies daring to have more medicines in stock and thus to increased availability of medicines for customers. Finally, Mr President, I would like to endorse our reservation No 15.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-234	Mr President, I would like to Listeners, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government works long-term and purposefully with welfare policy. The Social Affairs Committee's report 6 on pharmacy and medicinal products is a motion report which, as you have heard previous speakers say, deals with more than 100 requests for exercise. The fact that the re-regulation of the pharmacy market carried out by the alliance parties during their time in power would cause many problems was clear from the outset. That is why, year after year, we see it reflected in a large number of motions for changes to the pharmacy market, not least from bourgeois Members who themselves see the problems that have arisen and want to correct them, and that is a good thing. We're all seeing this, and we're working on it. Although the trade margin was increased when the pharmacy market was re-regulated to attract private investors into the pharmacy market, many companies today have problems, and we have seen a rapid concentration in a small number of large companies. There is nothing today to suggest that structural changes in the pharmacy market would lead to anything other than fewer and fewer players – from monopolies to oligopolies. Many of the proposals contained in the motions are those relating to problems that are direct consequences of this ill-thought-out re-regulation, such as the uncertainty of access to medicines. Of course, no commercial entrepreneur wants to be seated with Svarte Petter, so everyone hopes that someone else will stock the rare preparations. Standing up with expensive, rare and perhaps out - of - date drugs is no big deal for the one who has to make money from his business. It is quite clear that pharmacy activities are not really very well suited for commercial handling. On the other hand, the large volumes of non-prescription medicines that are allowed to be sold in commerce are apparently very good for commercial handling. But what can be considered is whether there are only benefits from increased availability, because even the use of non-prescription medicines can lead to dependence. In the long run, they may do more harm than good. This is a risk posed by the increase in drug consumption, which I think we are talking about far too little. When it comes to access to medicines throughout the country, it is fortunate that we still have the state-owned Apoteket AB that has undertaken to continue operating with pharmacists. Although the State is making contributions to this activity, it is hardly a profitable story. The report states that it has been promised to carry out such activities until the end of the six-month period. Then we'll see how it goes. We do not know how long this can work, if the big companies – many of them have foreign capital behind them – would pick the raisins out of the cake, as we have seen in other contexts, in the more lucrative areas and in the more lucrative niches. If one wants to keep one country together and to have as much as possible the same standard throughout the country in terms of basic social functions, to which pharmacy activities belong – it is almost like an infrastructure-like activity – it is difficult to combine with short-term economic interests. The fact that the alliance parties chose to increase the trade margin to attract investors in a previously untested private pharmacy market also directly increased pharmaceutical costs for society. It is natural for commercial operators through marketing to do what they can to increase volumes. And despite the fact that we have a competent medical profession, which of course should not be susceptible to market forces, it cannot be excluded that part of the explanation for the increased use of medicines is that market forces have nevertheless affected prescriptions. That, too, is cost-driven. When social problems of different kinds arise, whether caused by external events or poorly substantiated political reforms, politics must of course assume its responsibilities and act. That is why work is under way. It has been going on constantly since the re-regulation. Right now, for example, we have the so-called New Pharmacy Market Investigation, which will present a number of proposals in interim reports and final reports before the end of the year. They have the task of looking at all aspects and consequences of the changes that have taken place in the pharmacy market following the reregulation. They will, for example, look at the increased need for inspections, work with skills issues and look at how advice and processing work. There has been some information that, for example, the commercialisation of the business has meant that pharmacists have not had sufficient time for continuous training so that the quality of information to customers has deteriorated. The Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency has also contributed material to the New Pharmacy Market Investigation. Mr President, I would like to I have seen in the past that there has been some sort of consensus between the parties in this House on the ongoing work, which is continuing, in order to make a functioning pharmacy market work better as far as possible. I understand that everyone thinks it is important and that there has actually been quite broad support for it. That there are many motions written on pharmacy issues is obvious. It is an area that engages many because it comes close to all of us. And it's an important function of society. But it is strange that there are so many reservations in the report. Almost everything that is proposed in the reservations is what has been proposed before and on which it is being worked. There are no unknown things, and there are ongoing work on all these issues. So it seems a little unnecessary. It may seem that the committee should have waited for the proposals from the work in progress before these issues were raised. Not all exercise requests come from the last general exercise period, but from two general exercise periods. You might have been able to work on a little more. It feels like a strange way of handling it. I will conclude by saying that I am in favour of only reservation 2 for the time being and otherwise of the proposal contained in the report.
i-4mM4qpZf2bNxfvsdPsZG8A	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister for Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-252	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The weekend we just lived through was a better one. The government backed away from no less than two investigations and tax proposals. On Saturday, the government's representatives from the bank tax, which risked jobs not least in smaller savings banks, backed up. When you didn't think things could get any better, they backed off from the mileage tax the next day. This is very good. There are those who say that these processes should never have started, but I think you can afford to give credit to the government according to the recipe better late than never. However, there are still worrying clouds which we must do something about. This applies not least to the 3:12 rules, which many small businesses are worried about. More and more consultation bodies are raising objections, more and more parties as well – including as recently as today the Minister for Finance's government colleagues in the Green Party. We want to know. Sweden's entrepreneurs want to know. When does the government scrap the 3:12 threat?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-257	Madam President, I would like Sweden's entrepreneurs are extremely important to Sweden. Not least the smaller companies account for both jobs and growth as well as entrepreneurship. This is also why it is important for the government to protect smaller companies. When I meet entrepreneurs, they often raise the issue of problems in finding the right skills in the workforce they want to employ. It is difficult to find housing if someone is moving to work and has problems with the infrastructure. These are questions addressed by the government, because we think it is important to have a viable business community. It is also important that there is reasonable taxation in Sweden. That's why you've been looking at the 3:12 rules. The government is now analysing the proposal but also the referral points that have been received. We will come up with information at the latest in connection with the budget proposal this autumn.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-261	Madam President, I would like I take it as an opening – that the government can actually back off the proposals put forward by the investigation. As has already been said, one of the government parties has today announced that it does not go along with the essentials, the main features, of the investigation. However, I would like, and my order to the Minister for Finance is that this message should come as soon as possible. The concerns of the business community are there, and even now they are trying to find ways to get away cheaply. We have to stop this, and we have to do it as quickly as possible.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-264	Madam President, I would like What Emil Källström would like to ignore is that some people use the rules that we have today to avoid paying government taxes, thus separating Sweden and increasing income gaps. For example, this week we were able to read in Today's industry about people with extremely high incomes who sit on board positions and use these rules to avoid paying income tax on those board assignments. It is not that they have risked any capital, but it is a clean way to avoid paying taxes. It's not okay, and we have to take that into account.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-266	Madam President, I would like My question is also for the Minister for Finance. The Tax Agency has suddenly decided, through a so-called legal position, that if someone who has a right-of-occupancy apartment buys a parking space or another smaller area, the entire right-of-occupancy right of residence shall be deemed sold. This means paying taxes on profits if the apartment has increased in value – even though you live there and even though you have never had the money in your hand. In addition, this new way of looking at things may apply back in time. For many families, this could be an economic disaster. In a few days I have had a huge email harvest with examples from desperate tenant-owners. Should my family be forced to move because we bought a few square metres from the stairwell? ........ is a question I have been asked.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-270	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for raising an important issue! It is important to say that this is not in any way a decision that the government has made, but it is the Swedish Tax Agency that has made a position on how it means to interpret the law. Nor is it decided in court. The Income Tax Act does not contain a comprehensive regulation of exactly when a disposal is perceived to have taken place. That is why this is a matter for the application of law. It is then up to the court to decide how to interpret these laws. But, of course, the government is following these developments closely.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-273	Madam President, I would like Yes, uniform application of the law is important. Therefore, legal positions can be useful when starting from what has so far emerged in, for example, court rulings. But that's not what the IRS is doing here. In practice, the Tax Agency makes new law – without investigation, without impact assessments and without predictability. I cannot accept that, and I do not think the government should do that either.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-275	Madam President, I would like The legal position is, of course, a way for the Swedish Tax Agency to try to achieve a more uniform and uniform application of law within the agency so that it does not assess this in one way in Stockholm and in another way in Gothenburg. It is thus a way of governing the authority so that where in the country you live should not play any role in how the Tax Agency applies the law. I think that's important, too. I believe that we will have to follow the legal application of this issue through the legal system, and that will be very interesting.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-278	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Morgan Johansson. In parallel with a decline in confidence in the Swedish police, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council's report recently appeared, and in January dramatic figures were presented regarding the number of women in Sweden who experience insecurity. It turns out that one third of those who have responded to the Crime Prevention Council's survey feel insecure in their own residential area in the evening – a dramatic increase – and that 12% completely refrain from going out in the evening. It is therefore a dramatic increase, and the Crime Prevention Council says that this is alarming.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-282	Madam President, I would like We have seen such a development, and I would say that we have seen it for a long time – partly that more women report that they have been victims of crime, and more people feel more afraid to go out. I think it is extremely important that we send out signals that we cannot accept this. We must ensure that the police work more intensively to combat this type of crime, and we must tighten up the legislation. As Roger Haddad may know, the proposal of the Sexual Crime Committee is now on my table, with a wide range of proposals for tightening up the various laws and penalties for gross abuse. I regard this as one of the most important criminal justice reforms that we will carry out during this term of office, and we will do so this year.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-285	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. With the situation of the Swedish police, it is clear that it is not just a matter of tightening up the legislation; we must also have police officers out there who can intervene. I know that the other day you were courted about lex Lotta by people who are pushing the issue of social services and police being better able to alert when it comes to sexual and violent crimes. Liberals support such an initiative. Is that also the government's intention?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-287	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is yes. I received the group working on these issues as a follow-up to the high-profile death. To a very large extent, this is about ensuring that the authorities cooperate better. It concerns both the judicial system and the support that social services can provide. There is an investigation at the Ministry of Social Affairs, which looks at how the death investigations are being conducted precisely to find out what has gone wrong in society and whether we can do anything to improve it. I believe that this is one of the most important issues on which we must continue to work.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-290	Madam President, I would like I was brought to the attention last week that the government announced its intention to introduce an action plan against so-called false news. In an interview in an evening newspaper, the Minister of Finance explains that freedom of speech is important, but that, on the other hand, control of what news people are receiving is needed. At the end of the interview, the Minister also gives examples of a fake news story that she herself should have been exposed to, namely that Sweden needed to borrow to finance the migration of refugees. My habit is faithful to the source of this claim; it turns out to be an article in DN from 2015. The only problem with this so-called fake news is that it is neither fake nor news. The source that says that the government really needed to borrow to finance the migration of refugees to Sweden is none other than the Minister for Finance himself. I'm sure there's more people out there than I am now. So for the sake of clarity, I ask Magdalena Andersson : Which of her two statements is actually fake news?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-293	Madam President, I would like That was the answer to a question about examples of factual resistance: that people find it difficult to take on the facts. In fact, Sweden has had surpluses in public finances ever since I took over as Minister of Finance. There was a deficit throughout the last term of office, led by Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg, but since we took over there have been surpluses in public finances. This means that neither in 2015 nor 2016 did we lend a single penny to the reception of refugees. However, the article you refer to is from autumn 2015. At that time, the forecast looked as if we were not going to reach surplus in 2016 or 2015. But we have. So the economy has gone much better than we dared to hope for, and neither in 2015 nor in 2016 did we lend to the reception of refugees. It's facts, but it's hard for a lot of people to absorb.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-295	Madam President, I would like The budget balance for 2015 was a deficit of nearly SEK 33 billion. You can read on p. 2 in the Swedish Financial Control Agency's report. That is clear. Is it still the view of the Minister for Finance that we did not have to borrow for immigration, or does she admit that she herself has spread fake news? If so, what credibility does it give to the government's ability to determine what is true and what is not? Since I did not receive an answer to my first question, I am rewording it: does the Minister of Finance not see any risk of accusing everything and everyone of fake news as soon as one does not agree?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-297	Madam President, I would like Well, it would be very problematic if that's what I did. Of course, that is not the case. It is important that we use the facts in the debate. I do not know what the date is on your report, but we received last night figures from the Central Statistical Office, which showed a surplus in public finances of 40 billion last year. So we had a large surplus despite the reception of refugees. This is because this government has taken responsibility for public finances, kept the money tight, made sure that more people got to work, stopped the expenditure that has run out and fought tax evasion more actively than before.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-299	Madam President, I would like Almost two years ago, the government decided to set up an investigation into how a distance-based road wear tax for heavy goods vehicles could be designed. The tax is intended to cover Swedish and foreign trucks operating on Swedish roads. The aim is, among other things, to move more goods from road to rail and shipping and to get more order and order in the haulage industry. This week, the Road Tire Tax Committee issued its final report, and in connection with the Committee's presentation, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson announced that the Government will not proceed with all of the investigation's proposals. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance why the government rejects the investigation proposal and whether this 'no' means that no road-wear tax will be introduced.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-301	Madam President, I would like One of the ideas of the road wear tax was that it could increase control on Swedish roads so that we could get rid of some of the unfair and unsympathetic competition from foreign hauliers that we see today. So we do not want it to work in Sweden, and with increased monitoring one could improve the competitive situation of Swedish hauliers. That was one of the purposes of the treasure. However, the proposal that has now been submitted does not meet that requirement in the investigation, and that is why we cannot implement the proposal. This government would never do anything to impair the competitiveness of Swedish hauliers – quite the contrary. We want the Swedish hauliers to have good and fair conditions and the opportunity to compete in a good way on the Swedish roads.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-303	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. Of course, it is very good that the government takes seriously the issue of fair conditions and fair competition. During the more than two years that the government has run the country, we have, among other things, decided on tough penalties for infringements of cabotage rules and driving and rest periods. We have made a decision to give the police more money for control and the possibility of classing vehicles. We have also decided to investigate the issue of a sharper client responsibility.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-304	Madam President, I would like It is very important that we get the roads and the nicest conditions in order. Another important thing is that, if you are going to have such a tax, it is possible to take into account that it is different in different parts of the country. In some parts of the country there are no alternatives to road transport. It is also important to see how it can work for individual industries. Based on these starting points – how to ensure the competitiveness of individual industries and for the Swedish haulage industry – we will continue to work on such a proposal.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-307	Madam President, I would like As many times before, I thought, on the Left side, of lifting up the situation of unaccompanied minors in Sweden today. Many of those who have fled from war and poverty are waiting today for expulsion or have been told by the government that they are allowed to remain here during high school and then be expelled. In the magazine Article 14, published by the National Council of Refugee Groups, we see a number of examples of how children suffer and how the motivation for studying at school is reduced because you simply can't stand what can be expected in the future. There are many of us out there, both teachers and politicians, who think that this is an unsustainable situation. Why does the Minister for Migration put up with this appearance, and why does the government have no other solution to this issue but to pursue its inhumane refugee policy?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-310	Madam President, I would like First of all, I strongly oppose the description of our refugee policy as inhumane. We are the country that has taken the greatest responsibility for the global refugee crisis of all countries in Europe. We are in the midst of both receiving and examining tens of thousands of cases, including quite a large number of unaccompanied minors. 35 000 unaccompanied minors came to Sweden in 2015. About half of them have so far been tried. Another 18,000 are waiting. It is important to say that, in the case of unaccompanied minors, we actually have a very high approval rate; it is almost 90%. At the same time, however, it is important to say that we have regulated immigration into Sweden. This means that the person in need of protection can stay. Whoever doesn't have it must be prepared to go back. However, we do not reject unaccompanied minors back to their home country unless there is an orderly reception there. I think it is important to emphasise this.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-312	Madam President, I would like I don't really know if I can thank you for a non-answer. The discussion is not about the product of regulated immigration or whether Sweden has accepted refugees or not. What this is all about is the mental ill-health that is growing among many refugee children today because of the inhumane refugee policy that the government chose to pursue after forgetting Stefan Lövven's words about the refugee welcome. In the newspaper I mentioned, you can read:中 What do I answer when he says that he would rather die than go back? "This is what Åsa Eliasson, who is a study and career counselor at a school, says. The question is, Morgan Johansson: What do you answer these students, who say they would rather die than go back? How do you respond to the young people who have fled Iran but are then rejected to Afghanistan, where they have never been?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-314	Madam President, I would like My answer is that they will go through the most legally secure trial in the world with regard to asylum grounds. At the same time, however, Sweden must be able to maintain regulated immigration. We cannot have free immigration for certain groups. We must try to ensure that those in need of protection are protected. Those who don't need protection will have to go back. This is not an easy question. It's an ethical dilemma. If we were to go another way, Sweden would not be able to do this in practice.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-317	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. More and more attention has been paid to the problem of getting more plastic in our seas. The advantages of plastic – that it is light and durable – are also its main drawbacks. Fish and other animals living in the sea are harmed by getting stuck, ensnare themselves in plastic or simply eat it in the belief that it is food. More than 1 million birds and several hundred thousand mammals die each year from plastic. In addition, the plastic is broken down into smaller particles, which can enter the food chain. These tiny particles also carry other environmental toxins. This is an accelerating problem all over the world. If we do not stop this, we will soon have more plastic than fish in our seas. My question to the Minister for the Environment is therefore how Sweden can contribute to reducing the place in the seas and how the government works nationally and internationally with the issue.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Stina Bergström, for raising an extremely important issue! Plastics in the oceans are becoming one of the major environmental problems in the world. It causes great damage to the animals living in the waters and also to the oceans as functioning ecosystems. It also affects us humans because the plastic goes into the fish we later eat. The government takes this issue very seriously and has initiated a wide-ranging work dealing with the functioning of waste management in Sweden, combating littering and dealing with what is actually coming out, but perhaps the most important is a very active international work. At the UN conference that we will be co-hosting in New York in June, this issue will be very big. I know that several major UN agencies are preparing action programmes that they will present at the conference.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-324	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for the Environment. I've heard about this conference that's going to take place in New York. Sweden and Fiji are the initiators and chairmen of the conference. As a Swedish environmentalist, I am very proud that we will do this. This is the largest conference in the Stockholm Conference in 1972. The Minister mentioned a little bit what she thinks about what will be the outcome of the conference, but I would like to hear a little more about what concrete results the Minister hopes it will lead to.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-326	Madam President, I would like What we in Sweden are working on as part of our preparation for the conference is to review the collaborations we have, especially with UN Environment and the major environmental organisations, to see how we can strengthen them and use the resources we have. After all, we are a major financier of UN Environment and of many of the global environmental organisations. We will focus our work on this issue on using our common resources to find the most effective ways forward.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-327	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. During the reign of the Alliance, on five occasions we reduced the tax on pensioners by a total of SEK 13 billion, which corresponds on average to an additional monthly payment to the country's pensioners. However, it is still the case that pensioners pay more tax than employees, which we Christian Democrats think is wrong. As the Minister of Finance has probably already pointed out, the Christian Democrats are proposing that the difference should now be removed. We are therefore spending another 14 billion on removing this difference. As I recall, the Social Democrats also paid attention to this and promised before the elections to abolish the pensioner's tax. My question is: is the government prepared, like the Christian Democrats, to table such a proposal in the next budget?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-330	Madam President, I would like For the sake of order, it may be good to remind you that the Christian Democrats were sitting in the government and introducing the unfair tax gap that means that all the pensioners who have built up our country, the Sweden that we are all so proud of, will pay higher taxes on the same income than ordinary employees. The Christian Democrats were involved in both introducing and administering this for eight years. The Christian Democrats want to rule in an alliance that wants to widen the gap further through a sixth job tax deduction. This government is clear. We do not want this tax gap. We have taken the first step to abolish it. We have done so for those pensioners who have the lowest pension, and we naturally want to take further steps when public finances so permit.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. It is true that the job tax credit gave this effect, and the government has also chosen to keep it. It supports the steps of the job tax deduction. My question is: how much did the Social Democrats reduce the tax on pensioners during their previous government period, before we started, and how much has it been reduced so far? The reduction that the Government is now talking about is what I understand about SEK 14. Could it be in that magnitude that you have lowered?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-334	Madam President, I would like For those pensioners who have the lowest pension, it is of course a question of additional resources and opportunities to get everyday life going. We have also increased the housing allowance for pensioners who have low pensions and who have difficulty making ends meet. We have also introduced free health care for the very oldest, those aged 85 and over. This government is protecting pensioners. We are proud of our elderly in Sweden, and we want them to have a safe and good old age. Unlike the bourgeois parties, we do not want them to be punished by having to pay higher taxes.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-336	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Foreign Minister about Turkey. In Turkey, we all know that there are a large number of prisoners. According to the available data, it now amounts to over 40 000. This is, of course, serious. Several are waiting for them in court. Judgments have begun to be enforced now. In view of this, I wonder whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is prepared to raise the issue of Turkey and the rule of law of the detainees. I know that there will be a meeting in Europe for ministers. I have not seen anything on the agenda on the situation in Turkey, but the issue is serious, and I would like to say that it is becoming more and more urgent every day. I therefore wonder whether the Foreign Minister will raise the issue of detention in Turkey and, if so, how.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-339	Madam President, I would like This is an incredibly important issue. Developments in Turkey are extremely worrying. We have seen not only extensive arrests but also dismissals and dismissals of journalists, academics and oppositionists. This undermines the whole of Turkish democratic society. Now changes to the Constitution will also weaken Parliament's role. This is regularly addressed at meetings of foreign ministers in the EU context. I hope that on Monday we will have the opportunity to talk about it even though it is not formally on the agenda. This is in our interest to constantly monitor this, and in all the contacts we have bilaterally and via the European Union, these issues must be addressed.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-341	Madam President, I would like On 16 April, Turkey is going to a referendum on the President's position and what it should look like. As I understand it, there is no indication that the number of prisoners has decreased. Nor is there any indication that some groups are imprisoned more than others. There are a large number of prisoners, and nothing more has happened than that people have been put in prison. I very much hope that the Foreign Minister will make sure that the issue is raised.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-343	Madam President, I would like Margareta Cederfelt! For me, it is a great strength that we have a political consensus in the Swedish Parliament on these issues. We often have debates about what is going on in Turkey. The fact that I carry it with me also when I go to the Foreign Ministers' meeting is certainly a great asset. Above all, the imprisonment and prosecution of opposition politicians are very serious for development. It does not belong in a democratic society. I have no objection to raising the issue when I meet my colleagues, even if it is not formally on the agenda.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-345	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Justice and Migration! Sweden has recently had irresponsible immigration with the consequence that we now have about fifty no-go zones, which you in the government want to deny. In these no-go zones, ambulance and rescue personnel cannot carry out their important mission of saving lives and property without risking their own lives and being exposed to stoning, violence, vandalism on vehicles and equipment and so on. They cannot carry out their missions without the help of the police, who must first secure the area before they can make their efforts. Is that how you in the government want it? President of the Ambulance Union Gordon Grattidge announces that the staff are now in need of protective equipment in the form of helmets, vests and more to be able to carry out their duties in these areas. Can you deny, Minister, that these no-go zones exist because it is just as I have described Sweden today?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-348	Madam President, I would like There are no no-go zones in Sweden. There are areas where we have a higher level of crime than in other areas, and it is precisely in those areas that we need to have an even greater police presence and an even greater presence, I should say, of authorities in general. This is exactly what we are doing. But there are no areas in Sweden where the police do not dare to go in or where they do not dare to work – it is an image that is often tried to spread, not least in international media. What we are doing now with regard to police action is concentrating resources on the areas where we need it most. We're increasing the number of police officers. We got more cops this year than we had last year. We'll double admission to the Police Academy. We also provide the police with better instruments. We have just put forward proposals for tougher penalties for serious violent crimes. During this year, we will go forward with harsher penalties for gun crimes. But once again, don't spread the picture of areas where the police don't dare to be, because that's not really the case!
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-351	Madam President, I would like Sweden is no longer the safe place. The government continues to beautify the concept of no-go zones. In the past, it has repeatedly been denied that they exist and called those who use the term as liars. However, the chairman of the Ambulance Union recently stated that he thinks it is a relevant concept that well describes the reality of the League's members. Does the minister and the government mean that the ambulance union is lying?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-352	Madam President, I would like No, what I'm saying, Sara-Lena-Lena Bjälkö, is: The picture you're trying to spread, that is, there are areas in Sweden where the police or other authorities don't dare to go, is actually not true. It's the other way around. It is in these areas that we are now strengthening most. We are talking about 14 areas in Sweden. In all 14 police areas, we have now reinforced police presence, and we will continue to do so. But you give a cross-picture and a nidbild not least in international media if you say that we have no-go zones in Sweden.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-354	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Morgan Johansson about assisted fertilization. When Swedish female couples choose to implement insemination in a way other than through a Swedish clinic, the child who is then born will only have a legal parent – it is the woman who gives birth. As a rule, adoption is then carried out in which the woman who has not given birth also receives the legal parenthood and responsibility for the child. The issue has been investigated on several occasions without any change. Madam President, I would like Does the Government see that it is possible to strengthen children's legal security when they are added to Swedish same-sex female relationships, where the insemination takes place outside a Swedish clinic?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-357	Madam President, I would like The short answer to that question is that there is actually such a proposal. There was an investigation last year. The investigation that looked at surrogate motherhood also looked at this issue. The investigation has been out for a referral. The consultation outcome in this part has been positive. These are the cases where insemination has taken place abroad. It should also serve as a basis for parenting. As I see it, we will be able to proceed with such a proposal to Parliament. The second part, which the author also refers to, concerns the presumption of parenthood as such. The government will shortly be carrying out a review in that part. We will probably be able to deal with these issues during this parliamentary term.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-360	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. In 2015, the law came into force in Sweden that gave lesbian couples the possibility of assisted fertilization in clinics. It was a welcome reform carried out by the Social Democratic Government. But the law does not allow for the approval of inseminations made abroad. When married couples move back to Sweden, they are forced to adopt their own children, even though they are parents. I hope you can help the families affected.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-362	Madam President, I would like Yes, as I said, there is such a suggestion in the investigation that came last year. The outcome of the referral has been positive. I see that we will be able to proceed with such a proposal. We will also look at the presumption of parenthood as such. This also applies to all couples who do this on the Swedish bottom, so to speak. I think we should be able to resolve those questions.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-363	Madam President, I would like The Energy Agreement agreed that the authorisation process for small-scale water activities should be carried out with a reasonable balance between actual costs and environmental benefits and that a fund solution that is not yet in place should be set up to help individual hydropower owners that are being squeezed. The Parliament has issued an announcement that special consideration should be given to small-scale water activities when developing a new regulatory framework. The government has also announced that new rules for water activities will soon land on Parliament's table, which is very good. So we are in an interim period pending a new regulatory framework. Nevertheless, the government has chosen to force supervision by providing additional money to county boards for increased supervision in 2017. For example, the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland, where there are already several examples of hydropower owners who are at risk of personal bankruptcy, receives 1.3 million for supervision during 2017. Desperate hydropower owners call for a moratorium until a new regulatory framework is in place. The government responds with increased supervision. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: Why?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-367	Madam President, I would like The fragmentation of small hydroelectric power has been discussed many times in this House. What we are discussing then – it is important to remember – are reforms that the previous government started. There are major reforms – our authorities are working to manage to implement them. Now we see plenty of politicians from the bourgeois side who are horrified by the consequences of the great reforms that they themselves launched. They expect us to stop them. We have made a good agreement in the energy agreement. It is about funding, which is obviously the important part, but also about a fundamental principle for how these issues should be dealt with in the future. I have said – I have announced it many times – that I will return to Parliament with a bill in which these proposals are put forward. There we will deal with these issues. We're gonna do this in order.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-371	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I understand that it is not possible for the government to rule an authority. But strengthening a budget line in this way gives a very clear signal. The signal is not directly to reduce supervision, but rather to increase supervision. Since it is in fact the case that a new regulatory framework is being worked out, one might consider trying to find another solution. I can't see this as anything but a pure provocation. Does the government have any plans whatsoever to make it easier for the individual hydropower owners who are now being squeezed?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-373	Madam President, I would like I have a great understanding of the individual property owners who sit with difficult questions about how to handle the works that are no longer used, who have cultural environmental values but who can also be problematic from the point of view of permits. We have had rules for this for a long time in Sweden, but a lot of works still do not have permits. We will deal with this with reasonableness and caution, and I will return to Parliament with a bill.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-375	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Minister is very committed to disarmament issues, among other things, as part of feminist foreign policy. During this week, we have been able to read both in Aftonbladet and in interviews that the Foreign Minister has expressed his concern about the growing military spending in the world and announced increased efforts on nuclear weapons. I have no doubt about the foreign minister's commitment to disarmament, but I would like to ask a question about what happened last week when the foreign minister was in Moscow and met the Russian foreign minister. Did the Minister of Foreign Affairs raise these questions about the increasing military capability of Russia and the very high-ranking nuclear rhetoric coming from Russia at the moment?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-378	Madam President, I would like Yes, sir! That is the short answer. I certainly did. This is something that puts us all in great danger. If both Russia and the United States now decide to upgrade their nuclear weapons and invest in modernized nuclear weapons or completely new weapons that also involve nuclear weapons, it does not make the world safer but more uncertain, and it is very important that we try to resist in every way. It is clear that if, as in the case of the United States and indeed in the case of Russia, we also take money from, for example, diplomacy, cooperation or environmental investment, and instead put it on new nuclear weapons, we are all in danger, and that is why it was important for me also to raise it when I spoke to the Russian Foreign Minister.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-380	Madam President, I would like I think that's good. At the same time, I am afraid that we are in danger of getting into a bit of a kale cup theory, that is, it is like two sides of the same coin. Nevertheless, I must ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if she does not see the value of a strong US military as a guarantee in order to maintain the transatlantic link and take responsibility and help us with European security.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-381	Madam President, I would like We are defending transatlantic cooperation, and we still hope that we will get an American partner to also discuss nuclear disarmament with. I do not believe that the way forward is primarily a strong arms race in the world, but I believe more in diplomacy and cooperation and using the whole toolbox, which can help to make foreign policy also the main line of defence.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-383	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Foreign Minister Wallström a question. Today it is exactly a year since environmental and indigenous law activist Cáceres Cáceres was murdered because of her opposition to the hydropower building sanctioned by the government and foreign aid. Honduras is the most dangerous country in the world for environmental law activists, according to a new report from the organization Global Witness. According to the report, 123 activists have been murdered in Honduras since the coup d'état in 2009. Last week, a new law was adopted which increases the risk that the work of environmental and human rights activists will be classified as terrorism. Sweden is committed to strengthening respect for human rights in Honduras, but more needs to be done.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Marco Venega! Perhaps we should discuss more often what is happening in Honduras – it is not often that we do so in this House. Honduras is characterised by very strong political tensions and even unrest following the elections that were held. As I said, it was a year since Cáceres Berta was killed, and the circumstances surrounding her death are still unclear. What we are seeing now is that the situation of human rights defenders and LGBTQ people is very difficult. We have Swedish NGOs in place, and we have also decided to finance limited efforts in Honduras as well as in El Salvador in development cooperation. It focuses a lot on corruption and on combating impunity. That is the way forward as we continue to engage with Honduras and El Salvador.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-390	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is just as the Minister repeated: attacks on environmental and human rights defenders in Honduras are due to corruption, impunity and a lack of state protection. Both Swedish and international organisations bear witness to the fact that the ongoing institutional work against corruption and impunity called Maccih has not had the necessary mandate to act a little more forcefully. My question is therefore: does the government intend to put more pressure on the Honduran Government, and how?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-393	Madam President, I would like Of course we can do this in our bilateral contacts, and in international contexts we can continue to put pressure on Honduras. In fact, we have had several MR reports pointing out Honduras as one of the world's most dangerous countries to operate in as a human and environmental activist. We are preparing possible support for the mission against corruption and impunity referred to by Marco Venega, and we believe that this is the way forward as well as providing support to those organisations that are currently active locally in Honduras.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-396	Madam President, I would like Over 300 so-called Swedes have travelled to Syria and Iraq to participate in the Islamic State terror war. Of them, 150 have returned. No one is convicted of any crime or otherwise subjected to any form of coercive action. They live in Sweden just like everyone else. They can continue to recruit Islamists and raise money for the war of terror, and if they need more money or support, they can turn to one of our authorities, which will then provide training, employment services or other services. When Morgan Johansson chooses to react strongly in this context, he does so to those who think that Sweden welcomes IS warriors with open arms – according to Johansson an incorrect view that harms the image of Sweden. Morgan Johansson! Not to refuse entry for IS terrorists, not to cut their citizenship, to allow them to walk freely on Swedish land supported by Swedish tax funds – this is something that damages the image of Sweden, because it is to welcome IS terrorists with open arms. Can the Minister not understand the logic of this statement?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-399	Madam President, I would like Adam Marttinen says that none of these people are subject to any coercive measures and that we have no control over them at all. But then Adam Marttinen has no idea what he is talking about. Or does he have insight into how the Security Service works? Does he know what the Security Service's work looks like, directed at these very individuals? He doesn't know that, because these aren't open sources. That's not how we report exactly what methods we use to keep looking at these individuals. So don't stand and spread a picture of us doing nothing to this group, Adam Marttinen! In fact, it is exactly the opposite: if we can see that someone has committed a terrorist crime abroad, it will go to court, and they will also be judged. Moreover, we already have such judgments on people who have committed terrorist crimes abroad. So don't spread a picture of us standing with open arms and don't care if it comes back returnees from these countries, because it is fundamentally false!
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-404	Madam President, I would like In view of the differences in our political proposals, it remains my view that the government welcomes open arms IS warriors. With the punishments with which the government has joined the terror voyages, I hardly believe that any of those murderers are shaking with fear right now. By maintaining citizenship, the government wants to guarantee the IS warriors life support with the help of Swedish tax funds. Madam President, I would like I do not think the government has to worry that our criticism in this context is damaging the image of Sweden. You know what? They hurt it well on their own.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-406	Madam President, I would like When we say that the Swedish Democrats hurt the image of Sweden it is because people like Adam Marttinen talk about things they have no idea about. They just throw out such claims. It damages the image of Sweden. What if someone actually believes what you're writing in The Wall Street Journal, Adam Marttinen? What if the U.S. authorities believe this? Why should they enforce the visa rules that currently apply to Swedish citizens? What if other countries believe this? Don't talk about things you don't know anything about, Adam Marttinen. It's a basic rule.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-410	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. All too often, when unaccompanied young people are considered to be 18, social support more or less disappears. In practice, the right to good man disappears. In addition, young people often move from assisted housing or HVB to adult asylum accommodation. Young asylum seekers aged over 18 are often considered directly as adults and not in need of the same support as before. For young people who are placed in community care, SoL is otherwise valid up to 21. Why are young asylum seekers not treated in the same way as other young people? Should not all young people who need the support of society also receive it?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-414	Madam President, I would like The support and help we give to the young people who have come to Sweden is probably better than any other country provides. Then, of course, there has been a discussion about age assessments, that is, how old young people are. It has been a problem that there has not been a medical age assessment system in place. It had become another means of proof for young people in the asylum process. This also applies in what form of accommodation they should be placed. Now that question has been resolved. A new system of medical age assessments will be in place as early as next week. The system will finally start on 7 March. Sweden has received approximately 35 000 asylum seekers in a single year. We are now making sure to take care of them in as good a way as a welfare country can do.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-418	Madam President, I would like Yes, absolutely! The problem, however, is that an age write-up cannot be appealed, and as it now looks, municipalities act differently after the Migration Agency has made its assessment and before it has gained legal force. The young person loses his good husband in some cases and has to move to another home. That's what my question concerns.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-420	Madam President, I would like It is basically a municipal question how to do it in these cases. If you're over 18, you're actually an adult. This applies both to us who have lived in the country and to those who have come here. These are the rules that they have to relate to. Then there was the question of an appeal against an age write-up. The problem is that the possibility of medical age assessment has not existed. Now there is another means of proof, which means that part will be more legally secure than before.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-424	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Sweden's foreign policy commitment is based on respect for international rules and standards. We are putting people's freedom high on the agenda and, of course, we want other countries to join us in this. At the same time, we know that human rights are being called into question and violated in many countries. Traditional strategies of influence through military and economic means have proved ineffective and very costly. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs is among the few in the world who produce reports on human rights in other countries. Some countries use similar reports to rank other countries according to their respect for human rights, which has proved to be an effective instrument in combination with other impact strategies. How can we work to get other countries to respect fundamental human rights? What other instruments could be used to achieve foreign policy objectives?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-428	Madam President, I would like The government is active within the framework of the European Union and the UN to raise human rights issues. Throughout our bilateral relations, this is the topic of conversation we always raise. I was yesterday at the Human Rights Council in Geneva and discussed these issues. We raised sexual and reproductive health, civil society's space and restrictions on press and freedom of expression. We presented an MR letter to the Riksdag last December. There we tried to give the overview and the platform on which we should act in relation to the defence of human rights. Now we will also present country-specific MR reports in ours. There will be more than a hundred such reports, and we are in the process of compiling them. They will also address issues of democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a good answer! It is good and important that the government works on several fronts. Sometimes it can be difficult for small and democratic nations like Sweden to influence larger countries with economic sanctions. At the same time, Sweden's status as a humanitarian power and our legitimacy in human rights issues should not be underestimated. How is Sweden today using its legitimacy in the human rights issues to also influence other countries?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-434	Madam President, I would like We notice that you like to listen to Sweden because Sweden is not an old colonial power. Sweden does not threaten any military. It is felt that we have a long democratic tradition and a defence of human rights that is well-known around the world. Sweden has a strong voice and, of course, we are always trying to put forward this agenda in our bilateral contacts on issues ranging from discriminatory legislation to violence against women. We will continue that work.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-435	Madam President, I would like Swedish greenhouse gas emissions are increasing. This is shown by the latest statistics from Statistics Sweden. This is, of course, both serious and worrying, but it is also a serious understatement of the government's climate policy. The government has high ambitions in the field of climate change, but it clearly lacks the ability to pursue a cost-effective and results-oriented policy. That is why emissions are rising. Now, the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment has proposed long-term and ambitious targets for Swedish climate policy. In order to achieve the objectives, we need a long-term policy that will, among other things, accelerate the conversion of the fleet. The Minister for the Environment has said that she wants to review the possibilities of making information on the environmental impact of fuels mandatory. That could be good. However, it is more important to propose measures to increase the use and production of biofuels. Is such a proposal coming, or is it only a proposal for compulsory labelling of fuels that is under way?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-439	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Johan Hultberg! It is an incredibly important and good prerequisite for Swedish climate work that there is broad support based on the solid work of the Environmental Objectives Committee. Based on this, we are now looking at a series of instruments that are needed. The Committee also agreed on the need for new instruments. That there should be better information about which fuel is in the pump is part, but there should also be better and long-term conditions for those who want to invest and sell good fuel. We will make such a proposal, and it is now being prepared in the Government Office. I am concerned that in the case of some other proposals that are also needed for us to really move forward, as the Environment Agenda has also announced, the opposition says no, no and again no, for example, to powerful instruments to reduce emissions of climate gases.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-443	Madam President, I would like It is clear to me that the sharp proposals shine with their absence in this House. That is a lot of speech from the government, but the concrete results are missing. The transport sector accounts for one third of Swedish emissions. Then it is absolutely fundamental that we quickly create the conditions for the transition. Unfortunately, the government has made it more expensive to buy super-environmental cars and to refuel renewables. It won't hold. Long-term conditions are needed for biofuels. The answer has been year after year that the proposals come, but they are still not on the government's bill list. When will sharp suggestions come?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-446	Madam President, I would like The first step in introducing the proposals made by the Environmental Objectives Committee is to move forward with the climate law that we agree on. It sets the framework. However, in order to fill this with content, a more aggressive climate policy is also needed, and transport must be the focus. I guarantee that there will be proposals. We need not just one or two proposals, but a wide range of proposals that affect the whole of the transport sector – and most of all in the cities, where the possibility of conversion is greatest.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-449	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The government has challenged powerful economic interests through the proposals for bank tax, new 3:12 rules, etc. After the 140 billion tax cuts of previous bourgeois governments, these interests are now on the warpath in terms of both tax changes and a halt to wealth gains. What hopes does the Minister of Finance have for a more serious dialogue with the responsible forces in the business and banking sectors on tax changes?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-451	Madam President, I would like It is important that we can have a dialogue at a reasonable level. Last night when I was in Falkenberg, I heard that someone from the business community had said that the government is engaged in planning economics. It's one of the weirder statements from a business representative that I've heard for a long time. It is important that we can discuss these issues, because the Swedish people see big problems with money that we take into tax so that all children will get a really good school instead going down the pockets of venture capitalists, who make big profits that they don't even pay taxes for in Sweden but send off to tax havens. It is not an okay way to operate in Sweden. We want to change that, and we have the Swedish people with us. It is therefore important that we can have a debate at a reasonable level on these issues also with the Swedish business community.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-454	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I have a follow-up question. Could the new proposal for an increased levy on the resolution reserve and the continued processing of the financial sector's under-taxation lead to an increased consensus on this issue?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-456	Madam President, I would like The idea of a bank tax is to reduce the tax advantage that banks currently have that they do not have to pay VAT. While the banks have a tax advantage in today's system, they make huge profits. Last year it was 80 billion after tax. Here, then, there is the opportunity for banks to contribute more to the common. Therefore, we will look at whether we can further develop the proposal that exists so that it really becomes a tax. But it is also important that banks contribute to financial stability – hence the motion for a resolution fee.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-458	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Poland's Supreme Court has sounded the alarm that its government is about to politicise the appointment of judges. The Polish Government wants to change the independent legal council that has so far appointed judges. Instead, politicians should be given the right of veto. The last time I met Minister Johansson in this Chamber, we debated the independence of the courts. My question today concerns the Swedish system of appointments of judges. The establishment of the Judges' Board, which can be said to correspond to the Polish Legal Council, has made the government less say in this matter. But you still have the last word and can easily decide against the board's proposal. If, for example, the Prime Minister wants to appoint a political defender as President of the Court of Appeal or Justice, that is quite possible, just as we now see in Poland. Against this background, I wonder whether the Minister for Justice is prepared to reduce the risk of politicisation of judges in Sweden.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-463	Madam President, I would like I think that the current system is satisfactory. It was created a few years ago in a broad constitutional agreement between all parties in parliament except the Swedish Democrats. We have a large number of appointment cases per year, and it is extremely rare for the government to change in the Judgement Board's proposal. If we have done so, it has been about filling a gap that has not been filled because it has been difficult to recruit. The best way to uphold fundamental democratic principles in a country is to create cross-block agreements for every step to take with the constitutions and never to turn it into a party political issue. This is where Poland has done the wrong thing and we have done the right thing.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-466	Madam President, I would like I am fully aware of the broad agreements in the field of constitutional law, not least with regard to the strengthening of the judiciary in Sweden. We have such an agreement, and I respect it. But the agreement came to 2011, and it has been a number of years. Today we have a slightly different world close to us. We see in both Poland and Hungary trends that are clearly worrying, and we have an opportunity to anticipate something similar happening in Sweden. That is why my question remains.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-468	Madam President, I would like Both Poland and Hungary had the type of judicial council often promoted by not least Maria Abrahamsson. But it didn't help. When more authoritarian forces gain power, there is a risk that they will take the opportunity to run over previous regulations. That is why it is important that we keep this agreement across the block when we make constitutional changes.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-470	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. A few days ago, the Council's report on the development of crime in Sweden, which has also been mentioned earlier during Question Time, appeared. Some examples of what it says are that the proportion of victims of crime has decreased, which is of course great. Unfortunately, crimes against persons have not been reduced in the same way, but have been commuted upside down. This means that a large proportion of these crimes are threats and harassment, which has varied greatly. Another reduction concerns the proportion of households that have been victims of theft. In 2015, just under 10 per cent were victims of theft offences, and this is a decrease of 3 percentage points in ten years. What has increased is deadly gun violence against men, while fatal violence in relationships has decreased. I understand that the Minister of Justice is following this, and I wonder what his thoughts are about the report.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-475	Madam President, I would like My thoughts are that it is a mixed picture, just as Elin Lundgren says. The positive thing is that total exposure to crime is reduced, as is the crime of theft and juvenile delinquency. Mortality per capita also decreases trend-wise if you look at it over 20 years. This is particularly true of lethal violence against children and women. When it comes to the negative, one thing stands out, namely men shooting at other men. Now we're on the same level as in the late 90s. We can never accept this, and that is why we must mobilise police resources in the areas where these shootings are being carried out, prosecute the most criminally active individuals and tighten the penalties for gun crimes so that we get these criminal individuals off the streets as effectively as possible.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-478	Madam President, I would like My supplementary question is about who is committing crimes. We know from the past that the group of men is much more likely to fall into crime than the group of women. This is a serious gender equality problem where men have drawn the shortest straw.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-480	Madam President, I would like It is about both combating crime and the causes of crime. It is important, on the one hand, to mobilise the police and, on the other hand, to ensure that there is a higher penalty for this type of crime. With regard to gang crime, it is important to have the attitude that the state will always be stronger than the gangs. We can never accept the spread of organized leagues. At the end of the day, it is about preventing better and breaking new recruits to the criminal gangs.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-483	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the National Board of Health and Welfare released a report showing that the proportion of doctors in Sweden has increased. It's very pleasing. In the same report, the Agency notes that the development of specialist nurses is in the opposite direction when comparing the proportion of qualified persons in healthcare with the population. The proportion of specialist nurses has decreased by as much as 7 per cent, which risks patient safety. The report shows that the main reason for the negative trend is that the economic benefits of further education have been small. My question to Magdalena Andersson is: Does the Minister of Finance think that there will be more or fewer people who choose to train themselves as a specialist when, with the government's tax policy, they will most likely have to pay government income tax?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-487	Madam President, I would like It remains to be seen whether we will see an enormous change in the number of young people applying to the university or people applying for further training due to the tax changes that the government has made. So far we have not seen such a thing, but the search pressure for higher education seems to remain strong. I do not think that state income tax is the main thing that young people think about when they are thinking about training to be a doctor or not. As far as specialist nurses are concerned, the government has recently earmarked 300 million to enable more people to become a specialist nurse. The government is trying to support the county councils in the important work of further training specialist nurses. It is of course important that county councils take their responsibility as employers so that it is a good work environment for everyone who works in healthcare, also for specialist nurses.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-490	Madam President, I would like I have absolutely nothing against the government's investment in specialist training, but at the same time the agency says that it is believed that it will take at least five six years to reverse the spiral. Then it is incredibly important that existing specialist nurses work more hours. Does the Minister really think that this will happen now that, in addition to the historically high municipal taxes, they will also pay government income tax?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-492	Madam President, I would like I have debated various tax issues with Helena Bouveng many times over the last two and a half years, and each time she has pointed out the disastrous changes that will happen in society because of the government's tax policy. What we can see after two and a half years is that we have the highest employment rate ever achieved by Eurostat in the European Union, and that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. We see that unemployment is generally falling, and we see that long-term unemployment is also falling. Not all the terrible things that would happen have happened so far, Helena Bouveng.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-495	In doing so, I would like to thank the ministers and Members for their participation in Question Time.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-496	Madam President, I would like It was just over an hour since Jan Lindholm gave his speech, so perhaps everyone who listens now did not hear what was said at the time. But there were some things I reacted to and that surprise me. Previously, the Green Party has been a party that stands for people's freedom of choice and sees the availability of different actors in many activities. But if you listen to Jan Lindholm today, the Green Party has completely changed its feet on this issue. We were told that pharmacies are an area where others should not bother. It is clear that the Green Party now wants to renationalise pharmacies. My specific question to the Green Party and Jan Lindholm is: Is this the current policy of the Green Party – that all other actors should go and the state should take back all pharmacies? We fully agree that there should be high standards and good accessibility and that it should benefit all residents of the country. This applies to both pharmacies and health care in general. When Jan Lindholm talks about the same standard and wants to go back to the time we had before the pharmacy reform, does he mean that everyone should have the same low standard, equally poor accessibility, equally short opening hours and equally far to pharmacies? Is that how we should understand the current policy of the Green Party? We Christian Democrats are proud that we have implemented a reform that has greatly increased accessibility and made it much easier for many more to come to a pharmacy when they need their medicines, while maintaining quality and with increased customer satisfaction. Is this something the Green Party is against?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-503	Madam President, I would like Not in one word have I suggested that the Green Party would like to go back to the time before the re-regulation of pharmacies. Criticising a reform or a system that exists now does not mean that you want to go back to the situation before. You are criticising yourself through all your motions, Emma Henriksson, and you have, ever since the re-regulation, taken a number of measures to regulate and solve the problems you discovered that re-regulation meant. I was very clear in my speech. I said that I understand that we have previously agreed in this House on the work that has been going on since the re-regulation to try to deal with and solve all the problems that arose at that time. We have agreed on this – that is my view – and I think we really are. I have in no way suggested that we should go back to the time before the re-regulation. On the other hand, I see all the problems that we have and that we have to do something about, and I reported many of them. We are working on this. I reported that there are ongoing investigations and that there will be proposals. There will even be proposals in this area in a week's time, and the government will be putting forward proposals and proposals on how to proceed with the work. What's a little strange for me is that you don't seem to see the problems, although you write exercise about them. When we stand here debating, it is just as if they did not exist. We have problems with the pharmacy business as it is today. We have problems with the availability of medicines. We have problems with the skills of all the pharmacies we have. There's still a lot to do.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-509	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are still challenges with regard to the availability of medicines and to keeping down the costs of medicines, both for the individual and for us as taxpayers. Most of the problems, however, have nothing to do with which actors run the individual pharmacies but apply to other parts – what our price models look like, what requirements we set and where in the pharmaceutical chain we set these requirements. The proposals we put forward relate above all to the restrictions on pharmacies when it comes to being in the healthcare chain earlier in a better way. There we would have to open up more opportunities. It is about distributors of medicines and their opportunities. Whether it is the state Apoteket AB or another operator, all pharmacies need access to medicines and then be able to give this access to the patient. The possibility of sending back medicines that are not collected and that are very expensive applies to all actors. The question to the Green Party remains. Jan Lindholm understood that he was clear, and those who are interested will have to read the minutes afterwards. However, I heard it clearly said that the Green Party believes that it is not appropriate to have other actors in this area. I can't interpret it as anything but wanting to go back to the way things were before. Should Sweden continue to be one of three countries in the world, with North Korea and Cuba as the only other countries, which have a pharmacy monopoly? It must mean that it is said that this is not suitable for other actors. Then you want a state monopoly. At that time, I hope that none of us want to go back to, because it meant that we had absolutely the worst availability to pharmacies – bad opening hours and far to pharmacies for many consumers.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-515	Madam President, I would like I think Emma Henriksson owes me an apology. The method of debate that she uses, putting words in the mouth of people, slandering, slandering, saying things and making up opinions from her opponents of debate, is not the dumbest thing you can do? You should debate what you actually have to say to each other and not just make fantasies? I have spoken very clearly in my speech about the problems that exist. Many of these problems require further governance on the part of society in order for us to gain expertise at pharmacies and to cope with the cost development, which Emma Henriksson has now mentioned. In fact, many measures are needed from society to cope with cost developments. That is why more regulation is needed for this to work and for us to have a good market. For us to have a well-functioning commercial market requires a strong society. Therefore, this is essentially an activity which is not suitable for commercial operators. But we want commercial players here. Then we must make sure that we create the conditions for it. You did not do so in a rather ill-considered re-regulation, Emma Henriksson. You did not create the conditions for commercial operators. That is regrettable, and I think you have understood that. You have spent the time since then trying to deal with this problem, and we continue to deal with this problem. Probably we will eventually succeed in creating a system in the pharmacy market so that we can have many players. Unfortunately, the trend is still such that we get fewer and fewer players in the pharmacy market. Neither you nor we wanted that when this happened. Hopefully we can get to the point where new players can enter the market, so that we can have a diversity instead of an increased lack of diversity. I think we have the same goal. But I think it is very ugly to say something that I have not said in the debate.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-520	Madam President, I would like It is a very exciting debate that we have in this House on very important issues, namely pharmacies and medicines. This is a debate that we, who have been involved for a while, have had a number of times since the notorious re-regulation of the pharmacy market that took place at the end of 2008 and at the beginning of 2009. History is that in the early 1990s there were three countries, apart from Cuba and North Korea, which had a pharmacy monopoly. It was Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Iceland was first out and re-regulated its market in the mid-1990s. It was extremely successful. They got more pharmacies, increased availability and better service. Norway followed at the turn of the millennium. There too it was a very successful reform. The Norwegians were here in the Riksdag and described to us that you have to go for a long time on Karl Johan's gate and ask before you find someone who wants what it used to be. That was the Norwegians' clear message. Finally, in Sweden, we were also able to implement this reform in 2008-2009. This was then described by all three left parties as the disaster. It was a formidable disaster when it came to the supply of medicines in the country. Apotek in the countryside would be shut down. Nowhere would there be a pharmacy. They even made signs and arranged demonstrations outside the pharmacies where it said: Don't touch my pharmacy! Madam President, I would like It is good to be able to see how this debate has developed and, above all, that the Social Democrats today can have a serious discussion on how we can exploit and develop the pharmacy market. Today we see that this has been a formidable success even in Sweden, just like in Norway and just like in Iceland. We have gone from being the most pharmaceutical country in Europe with 10 pharmacies per 100 000 people to becoming a significant pharmacy eater country with up to 14 pharmacies per 100 000 people. On average, opening hours have increased by ten hours per pharmacy. It's a completely different level of service. It is therefore also gratifying to see that the debate can now be about how we can further develop the pharmacy service in Sweden. The majority of committees supported the three proposals, namely to look further at the 24-hour rule, to look at how to develop contact between pharmacies and health care, and also to look at how to review the right of return for pharmacies. I think that the Social Democrats and Anna-Lena Sörenson should take this as a support from the House, so that there is a clear political will here to develop the pharmacy market, and not to vote against it. This is a clear direction of will that can be a support in the further reform process. When you listen to the Green Party, it's like moving back to 2008-2009. It is said that foreign capital does not fit in and that it is not good that there is a willingness to invest foreign capital and so on. There are also other parts of this report that I think are important to highlight. I'm thinking of Naloxon, of course. In Sweden, we have an excess mortality rate among those who are trapped in a heroin addiction. Part of the explanation for this is that our country, unlike most other countries, has not had broad access to Naloxon. Naloxone is an antidote that allows you to save the lives of the men and women who take an overdose of heroin. The Center Party raised a motion on this during last year's general exercise. We thought that this could be solved in another way, because we knew that there were applications to the Medical Products Agency. We assumed the MPA would grant them. Therefore, the disappointment was even greater when it was announced at the end of January that the MPA cannot do so on the basis of current legislation. In addition, we discovered that there was a disturbing passivity on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee on Social Affairs has now been able to agree in very clear terms, in which we are calling on the Ministry of Social Affairs to make sure that this is dealt with quickly. It is not acceptable for people to die in this country because we do not have access to this antidote called Naloxon. The committee's report also makes it very clear that we will not accept that this is going to drag out week after week, month after month, but in May 2017, we want a return from the Minister for Health on what has been done. We must never forget that the heroin addict who dies this week is also someone's son or daughter. This is an extremely important issue for a very vulnerable group. It is therefore a good thing that the motion raised by the Center Party has actually resulted in a clear position on the part of the committee in which we run the government before us on such an important issue. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Center Party, but for the winning time I only agree to reservation 1.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-535	Madam President, I would like Are pharmacies any kind of stores? The former Alliance sold out Apoteket AB. We believe that the changes were very ideologically motivated and were based on the premise that medicines are a retail issue more than part of health care. As far as this reform is concerned, the country looks a little different. There have been more pharmacies in the big cities. If you look at what it looks like in sparsely populated areas, it doesn't look as good. I'll get back to that. Regarding competition, the Center Party had the big dream that there would be a huge number of small pharmacies that would compete with the big giant Apoteket AB. That's not what happened. The market works in such a way that the big giants eat up the small players. That's usually how the market works. Now we are here with Apotek Hjärtat AB, for example, with a link to Ica – I will not explain how; it will be long-winded – and that has 25 percent of the market. It's more of an oligopoly now. Unfortunately, the small pharmacies disappear at a rapid rate. When it comes to pharmacies, the person who lives in the city, as I do, has lots of pharmacies nearby. Unfortunately, the medicines are sometimes missing because pharmacies cannot store them, but I will not go into this discussion either. However, if you live in rural areas, i.e. in sparsely populated areas, you may use your list to find a pharmacist, and there is a risk that the number of pharmacists will also decrease. I am talking about clean rural areas. The new pharmacies have been established in big cities. There, the number of pharmacies has increased by 356, which corresponds to 39 percent. It's not a bad increase. No pharmacy has been established in rural areas, but there are six new pharmacies in rural areas – many different parts of the country are described here. According to Statskontoret, who has looked at this, there is some uncertainty as to what will happen to the various pharmacies in sparsely populated areas. If you look at the number of pharmacists, you can see that it has fallen by 23% since 1999. You can think about that. It is state-owned Apoteket AB that currently operates the pharmacy ombudsmen in sparsely populated areas. As you all know, the Medical Products Agency has made a proposal a few years ago that there would also be an opportunity for private operators to enter the market for retailers. However, there has been little interest. We can think about why it is, but it is a question of this costing money. You don't get any profits, and this is a market. We hope that Apoteket AB will still be able to operate the pharmacists in exactly the way they are doing now. According to the Annual General Meeting, the assignment was also extended until 30 June 2017. We believe that the government should commission Apoteket AB, together with the other state service companies, to develop their services in rural areas throughout the country – and I am talking about sparsely populated areas. Now I leave the pharmacies and will talk about something else, namely prescription of psychiatric medicine. Statistics show that women are prescribed more antidepressants and sleeping pills than men; there are clearly documented in various studies. When antidepressant medicine is prescribed to young people, we believe that there must be a very short period of time between the prescription of medicine and the return visit, so as to follow up. It's extremely important. When prescribing antidepressants, it must also always be combined with follow-up. That's not always the case. It is great that today we have many different medications for different psychiatric conditions. It's gold worth it. That was not the case 20 years ago, and then it looked much worse. But follow-up is absolutely A and O. If you look at the statistics – and I like to – you can see that the proportion of young people aged 16 to 24 who had sleeping problems and different types of anxiety problems according to SCB was 7 – 8 per cent in the 1980s, and now the figure is about 20 per cent. It is a significant increase, and one can see that the prescription of medicines for anxiety, anxiety and so on has increased. Another thing that can be seen in these studies is that young people who receive anti-anxiety medicines are up to twelve times more likely to end up in addiction than those who have not been prescribed medication. It's very troubling. This is a kind of fragility that needs to be followed up. It is important that the profession is allowed to control which medication and care is appropriate, but it is also important to investigate whether there is any other background to girls and young women being referred more often to medication than boys and young men. Against this background, the government should initiate an investigation into medicinal medicinal products for young people, with a gender analytical mission. Of course, we think that Parliament should support and vote in favour. I am now going into the third part of my speech, and it is about Naloxon. The government has set up a rapid investigation into Naloxon, and we are very pleased about that. The committee agrees on this, and that is a good thing. After all, there are heart-starters a little everywhere in society, to use if people fall down, and there should also be Naloxon out in the community. It doesn't. Sweden will, as I said, be almost the last on this ball, but we still believe that the government will fix this and bring it to port. We'll follow it up. I would also like to say that this government has done far more for people with dependence and the consequences of it than the previous government did. For time winning, I only agree to reservation 16, but of course I support all our other reservations. I demand that the other motions be rejected.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-551	Madam President, I would like It really delights my center party heart that Karin Rågsjö from the Left Party finally goes outside customs and looks at what she calls the country, and that she is committed to ensuring that we have good pharmacy services around. Madam President, I would like Let me take Karin Rågsjö to Dalarna! In Dalarna, pharmacy regulation has meant that the countryside has a new pharmacy, in Insjön. There has never been a pharmacy before in modern times, but now one has been opened. But in Lima, a pharmacy in sparsely populated areas has actually been closed, which is deeply unfortunate. Then why is it closed? Well, that's because the Social Democrats and the Left Party in Dalarna decided to close down the health centre in Lima. It wasn't supposed to be here anymore. In a situation where the only health centre in the village is closed down, it is clear that it will be difficult for the private pharmacy company to continue operating the pharmacy. If people go to the larger community to go to the doctor there, it is clear that they also choose the pharmacy that is next door. Madam President, I would like My question to Karin Rågsjö is: Why is the Left Party so horribly upset that the private, profit-driven pharmacy company is closing down the pharmacy in Lima but not in the same way upset that the Left Party in the majority position is closing the health centre in the same place – which indirectly makes it impossible to run a pharmacy there?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-555	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Anders! You have enormous prejudice about me. I am an original Stockholmer, which is really heard, but I have travelled around quite a lot since I ended up in Parliament. I think it is included, actually – it would be boring if I just sat on Kungsholmen and looked at Karlbergs Canal. It would be boring, I think. I'm not going to answer the detailed questions, but I'm happy to go to Dalarna and check the location in various locations with you, Anders. What I am concerned about, however, is that there have been 356 new pharmacies in cities, which is an increase of 39%, while the number of pharmacists in rural areas has decreased. I think that's a problem. As they say, how are we going to solve this together? Surely the Centre Party claims to be the representatives of sparsely populated areas, as I understand it. Then this should worry a lot, shouldn't it? But I don't see it anywhere. As for the big pharmacies, it is clear that I, like the Center Party – this was a little bit your baby together with KD – think it would have been great if we had had small pharmacies. But now it has not become so, but it is the big pharmacies that eat the small ones – as always in a market. That's how the market works. We have the state Apoteket AB and, for example, Apotek Hjärtat, which dominates the market. It was not the small pharmacies that you dreamed of, but the big giants instead. I think you can think about how things turned out. My speaking time is almost up, but I wish that we could ensure that rural areas have representatives at a reasonable level. That is what we have made reservations about in various ways. Of course, people should have access to pharmacies no matter where they live, close and effective. If they live in sparsely populated areas, they have it through the representatives.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-559	Madam President, I would like I didn't really get the answer to my question. It is thus a pharmacy that has been closed down in the countryside of Dalarna, and it is the pharmacy in Lima. It has been closed down because the Left Party and the Social Democrats closed the Health Centre. Why does the Left Party think that it is perfectly okay to close a county health centre while being very upset in a situation where, as a consequence of this, a private company actually has to close down its pharmacy? If you look around Sweden you can see that all counties have received considerably more pharmacies. Nine out of ten municipal groups have received more pharmacies. In rural areas, there are just as many pharmacies today – or even slightly more – than before the reregulation. That's what the picture looks like. The large market for pharmacists was previously that they had the right to sell the entire product range without a prescription. Today, it is not only the pharmacists who have this opportunity – all petrol stations and supermarkets have it too. In this situation, it is clear that there is not the same interest in being a pharmacist. In addition, we have had an incredibly exciting development thanks to the re-regulation. Today, it is possible to order medicines and have them returned directly to the mailbox, which of course completely changes the market for pharmacists. Why should I go to a pharmacy representative in the neighbouring village when I can get the medicine sent directly to my village? I can comfort Karin Rågsjö that this reform has meant that rural areas in Sweden have also received a much better service. We've had longer opening hours. We have been able to ensure that the pharmacies that existed previously still exist. In addition, we have had new opportunities to distribute medicines. This was a success, Karin Rågsjö! But please answer why it is okay to close a health centre while you are upset that private companies close down pharmacies.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-565	Madam President, I would like I'll be honest with you, I don't know what's going on in Lima. I don't know if you could answer questions from me that concern places around Sweden, where you haven't been or where you don't have contacts, Anders. I promise, however, that I will immediately contact my county councilmates about this and examine how they thought. It's obvious. I think it is very significant that 356 new pharmacies have been added. There has been an increase in the number of pharmacies in major cities – specifically in metropolitan regions, where there has been an increase of 39%. Maybe this is great – we might need a lot of pharmacies here. And it's great that availability is good and that pharmacies are open in the evenings and weekends – it's insanely good. If government Apoteket AB had been commissioned to fix this, they would surely have done the same. However, it was not your mission, but you wanted to get this into the market, because that is your whole philosophy. You think the market deals with these kinds of issues – health – better than the public. I have to say that it is strange, Anders: a failure for you should be that the big giants have taken over the small ones. Surely it must be a failure – you talked about that there would be small pharmacies around. This was not the case, but instead there were a number of giant players who took over – as usual, because that's how the market works. It is not their fault, but it is because of political governance, where no impact assessment has been carried out on the reforms that are being implemented. I think a lot of people could figure out that it would be like this, because the market sees an opportunity to make as much money as possible. They're probably great, but there were no small pharmacies, but there were big pharmacies.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-570	Madam President, I would like It sounded almost like Karin Rågsjö complained in her speech that there have been so many pharmacies in the Stockholm area. It is true – it is especially in metropolitan areas that the number of pharmacies has increased. But the number has not decreased in other areas, and the improvement has not been greatest in Stockholm. The reason why it is metropolitan areas that have had the greatest improvement is that it was in these areas that it was previously the worst. When you got your prescription from the doctor and were going to the pharmacy you were met by a long, long queue. There were so few pharmacies that these were not quite able to serve the customer data they had. Today, Sörmland has the lowest proportion of pharmacies per 100,000 inhabitants – 11.6. The average in Europe is 31 pharmacies per 100,000 inhabitants. Jämtland, which may not be known to be the most densely populated part of our country, has the highest share in Sweden– 19, 6. Even Jämtland is well behind the rest of Europe. However, reregulation has ensured that accessibility has improved in all county councils in our country. That can't be anything to regret, can it? Karin Rågsjö mentioned that Apoteket AB stands for a pharmacy representative. This is the case because in practice the others are prevented from operating as agents. The Medical Products Agency has also proposed that this be removed. My question to Karin Rågsjö is: Does the Left Party support that more people should have the opportunity to engage in representative activities?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-576	Madam President, I would like I go to the last question: Do you seriously believe that there is a great interest in, for example, Pharmacy Heart to run a pharmacy representative when you can't make money from it? A market works a little bit like that. Statskontoret also says in its investigations that they do not believe that there will be a queue of private actors who want to enter this market. It is easier to enter the market in the metropolitan regions. I agree with you. There's an amazing access to pharmacies. I live, as I said, in the middle of town, on Kungsholmen. I think I have five pharmacies within a 200-meter radius. Talk about accessibility! In addition, everyone has the same opening hours. However, I have been involved in running around trying to get an eye ointment in three of these pharmacies, which took just 24 hours. Accessibility does not necessarily mean that the service is at its peak, for various reasons. Your second question, Emma Henriksson, was about the representatives. The number of representatives has gone down. I think it is a problem when the number of pharmacists is reduced by 23%. Then you have to be able to do analyses – which Anders W Jonsson from the Center Party was on – about what this is all about. Is 89-year-old Olle watching the toad trying to order, or what? We cannot really see those answers today. A lot of people talk about the countryside today, like a slogan. If you're going to talk about a service for the whole country, you're going to do something for real. That is why we think that we should try to analyse the various pharmacists, how to expand this and what it looks like in sparsely populated areas. A proper investigation should be carried out.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-581	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal of knowledge about what has caused the number of pharmacists to fall. The pharmacy agent was often at the gas station, which has closed down. There is no one left who can carry out the pharmacy ombudsman's activities. It was in the local small grocery store, but it has also closed down. The explanations are there. This is because the activities that existed no longer exist, and then you can no longer be an agent. There is no one who simply opens up representation, but it is done in conjunction with other activities that exist. The important thing for me when I need medicine is that I have the opportunity to get it. Today, thanks to the arrival of new players, there are completely new ways of obtaining medicines. Of course, this is not as easily available to everyone. Anyone who is 93 years old and has never used a computer cannot easily go in and order medicines. However, there are also quite a few vital 93-year-olds who can do this and who, thanks to the fact that today there is an opportunity to order medicines online, have gained a much better availability. In addition, many more pharmacies have opened. There are more pharmacies, and the availability of pharmacies has increased in all county councils throughout the country. In particular, opening hours have improved – you no longer have to stand in line to get your medicines. We know that there are customers who come in today and need a medicine but who do not get it, but that was before liberalisation too. When you look at what makes you not get your medicine you can see that it is often about that it is over with the supplier. Then it doesn't matter how many pharmacies you go around to, or whether they are government or private, but it's because the medicine simply isn't available. The question to the Left Party remains: Are you prepared to make it possible – and to continue to make it possible – for more people to participate in developing the pharmacy market?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-587	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to discuss this reform. When you discuss access to pharmacies, it sounds like you are discussing bread queues sometime around 1915 and what it looked like on the city. So it's a myth that people had to stand for days to get their Kåvepenin out. It's not really like that. If you had had some control of the situation, you'd still have the Ministry of Social Affairs... maybe you'd have tried first to give Apoteket AB greater authority to find other roads, like longer opening hours. You could have made a list of what they'd do. Now you didn't do it, you sold it out, and of course it'll never come back again-- who knows? It's too expensive, because this is about market shares. At the same time, I think that sometimes there is a dishonesty from the former Alliance when you say that it is a fantastic accessibility throughout Sweden. It's not really like that. There are an incredible number of examinations that show that you have to wait a little longer for medicines. It is like 4% who have to wait longer today with the 24-hour rule than before. No, it was not the small family run myspy pharmacy, but it was the big dragons who took over the pharmacies, just as we said in the debate on the so-called reform. You do not respond to this. You think it's okay that it's an oligopolistic market in Sweden now with pharmacies. Instead, you should say this didn't turn out well. What if we could have such a political debate instead of saying that everything is almost fantastic, even the farthest out in rural areas?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-591	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse reservation 1. We Liberals are behind our other reservations but refrain from calling for them for time-winning. Yesterday's vote was horrified. An investigation will be launched next week to address many of the issues we are dealing with here today. It has then been said on the government side: Why could you not wait to raise all this until the investigation comes? I have been in Parliament for a total of 20 years and know that if you want to get things moving, you have to nag and nag and bring them up in this Chamber. If we constantly remind ourselves of them, as we are doing today, perhaps the referral procedure is quick, and then we take care of the referrals quickly and quickly come back to Parliament with a bill, because it is urgent on all the issues we are discussing today. The cooperation between healthcare and pharmacies is addressed. Yes, pharmacies are the front line of health care. That is where people go in the first place for advice. That is why it is so important that the advice given there is coordinated with the advice given by the rest of the care. There are good models here, in fact, from the time before Apoteksbolaget was created in 1971. Private pharmacies work well with care, and this was done during the pharmacy's time. These are experiences to build on. The national ordination database is in a hurry. We thought in 2005 that we would get it when we got an individual-based recipe register. It is now 12 years ago, and there is now a relocation of the E-Health Agency. Will there be more delay here or the timetable, so that within a year we can see the national prescription database for patients' safety and effective drug treatment and to get away from the problems we have with generic exchange and other things? The 24-hour rule shall also apply to manufacturers. With the authorisation of a medicinal product, it should also comply with a requirement that they have medicinal products in stock, so that they can be delivered to patients within 24 hours. Then I would like to raise a matter of heart, namely orphan drugs for people with rare diagnoses. The EU has invested a lot of money in developing medicines for rare diagnoses. The approval process of European medicines control has been speeded up. Then the drugs have come out to patients in different countries within the EU, but in Sweden it is not safe, because the Dental and Drug Benefits Agency looks at the price and they out in the county councils say: No, it is too expensive to treat some of these people with these rare diagnoses. It's medically-ethically very offensive. We need to develop a model in which these medicines can be financed at national level. I understand that an individual clinic has difficulty paying millions for a treatment. But we should have a national pot. We should also have good and transparent price control. We do not have that for any drugs today. When applying for registration, the costs of developing the medicinal product in question should be explained. I think I have time to raise one more question, namely the right to return medicines. It will revolutionize everyday life for many. Then pharmacies dare to take medicines and keep them in stock, not least the expensive orphan medicines, because you know that if they are not prescribed you can send them back.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-602	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate will be about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on safe and effective medicines. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how the state handles the pharmaceutical industry's influence over state drug control and knowledge management. The purpose of the review has been to investigate whether the government and authorities are acting effectively and with integrity and knowledge in the state control and governance of medicines, thus promoting the primary objectives of pharmaceutical policy: to promote public health. The report shows a number of areas where the Swedish National Audit Office believes there is room for improvement. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the Swedish Medical Products Agency has prioritised down some review of drug safety, which is a shortcoming. It is also considered that the MPA does not keep promotion and controlling functions separate enough. In our follow-up motion, we have therefore requested an announcement that the Government should take action in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to give the Swedish Medical Products Agency clearer incentives not to prioritise down-to-value safety-oriented tasks. Drug sales at pharmacies in Sweden amounted from December 2015 to November 2016 to just over SEK 36 billion calculated in the pharmacy purchase price. EUR 36 billion is more than the EUR 31 billion of the cost of assistance compensation. In short, there is a lot of money at stake and many people's health that can be put at risk. We look with concern at the conflict of values and goals that exists between the MPA's various tasks and roles. We would like to emphasise that we do not distrust individual MPA officials. What we think is that it is problematic when one as an authority has several different missions that could conflict with one another. It is therefore important for the government to be clear about the priorities and to give clear signals that the safety of medicines should not be allowed to stand back for other tasks given to the agency, such as promoting innovation and the introduction of new medicines into the market. As we see it, it is never a question of compromising patient safety or public health. One example where drug safety went wrong was the narcolepsian valley. The effects of that scandal are extremely serious and have forever ruined the lives of many of the victims. It can't happen again. This is why the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations, as we see it, are about trust in the Swedish Medical Products Agency as an authority and its important role as an independent party with expertise in pharmaceuticals. It is against this background that we call for the approval of our reservation 1 because we believe it is unfortunate that the Government's letter completely rejects all of the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-610	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out a review of how the state handles the pharmaceutical industry's influence over state drug control and knowledge management. Just as the Swedish National Audit Office writes, it is clear that interests here stand against each other. You would like to think that the medicine you get printed is examined by an independent researcher where the state is the guarantor. Drug development is taking place very quickly. New medicines are coming onto the market. As a consumer, it is very important to keep track of the situation. Many consumers assume that the government is the guarantor. This is not entirely the case. It is clear that the state has handed over far too much responsibility to the pharmaceutical industry. It's just happened. We have to change that. It is about integrity and a government activity based on evidence and self-control. It's supposed to be the cornerstones. It is the Swedish Medical Products Agency that is responsible for the review of medicines, effects and side effects. Medicines can sometimes cause different types of conditions, side effects and patient injury. Then the state must guarantee the medicine 100%. It is a question of public health and business interests colliding. This is where the state through its muscles should be able to stand up for public health, integrity and self-control. That's not how we think it's really been done. Do we have a state drug control system that compensates for the enormous influence of pharmaceutical companies in this area? Do we have a state-owned pharmaceutical control which is independent of the pharmaceutical industry and has its own capacity to cover controls on medicines? That's exactly what the National Audit looked at and came up with, I have to say, quite amazing results. In this case, I am absolutely convinced that the Swedish National Audit Office was right out there. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Medical Products Agency has a large, too large, confidence in the pharmaceutical companies' documentation, which has led the agency to prioritise its own activities in terms of safety-oriented tasks that would otherwise lie with the agency. Then it gets a little strange, I think. In principle, pharmaceutical companies are testing their own products. Because of this, companies have an extraordinary influence on how knowledge of medicines is developed and what is communicated with the outside world, what image is given of the product. After all, it is not an ordinary product that is being marketed. It's not shampoo. It's medicine. The Authority is dependent on information provided by the industry which has a strong economic interest. The most remarkable thing in the report is the link that exists between the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the pharmaceutical industry. It turns out that half of the MPA's investigators have worked in the pharmaceutical industry. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed this and seen the connections. You can think about that. In its assessment, the Swedish National Audit Office makes it clear that the authorities handle the risk of individual conflicts of interest and so on. But this is something we want to keep an eye on. It turns out that the Agency does not review full safety reports during the ongoing clinical trial. We find that troubling. How will the government strengthen state control of medicines so that no reduction in control leads to a breakdown, as it has done and can do in the future? It's got to be hard on you. The Swedish National Audit Office's various proposals did not get any fantastic satisfaction from the government. Who's going to hold the takpin for the assessment of medicine to us consumers-- is it the state or the capital, and in this case the pharmaceutical companies? The left wants to commission the agency to work together for a more producer-independent governance. The main responsibility for the control of medicinal products to be placed on the market shall lie with the State. We want a pharmaceutical control that is independent of the pharmaceutical industry, and the Medical Products Agency must have the capacity to cover controls on medicines. I request the approval of reservation 2 and the rejection of the second motion.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-621	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's report deals with a very important subject. Citizens must be able to have strong confidence that the control of medicines works well and that the Agency, in this case the Medical Products Agency, in its assessment has made careful and independent considerations between the risk and benefits of a medicinal product. The Swedish National Audit Office claims to have found shortcomings in the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Government's review; it deals with mispriorities, mixed roles, double control signals, non-compensation of distortions in the knowledge base and lack of integrity vis-à-vis the pharmaceutical companies. Mr President, I would like to The review has resulted in a number of recommendations to the Government, the Swedish Medical Products Agency, SBU and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare that the Government should not involve the Swedish Medical Products Agency in its innovation policy, that the Government should guide the MPA's priorities, that the authorities should cooperate for greater independence and that SBU and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare should take measures to reduce distortions in the knowledge base. Mr President, I would like to In its letter, the Government responds to the recommendations that the Swedish Medical Products Agency should participate in the innovation work as medicines play a major role in meeting a future with major health challenges in the form of an ageing population, threats of infection, pandemics and antibiotic resistance. Furthermore, the Government believes that governance of the authorities should be based on trust and that the Swedish Medical Products Agency itself has the prerequisites and ability to prioritise among the assignments the agency has. The Government, like the Swedish National Audit Office, considers patient safety issues to be urgent and believes that within the framework of the pharmaceutical strategy there are excellent opportunities for assignments on safety issues. With regard to the recommendation on knowledge management that is independent of producers, the Government points out that the authorities are already cooperating in the field of conflict declarations for their external experts and have elaborate formal structures for this. It has also started working with the other Nordic countries to broaden the base with the experts that can be used for the work. Mr President, I would like to Regarding the risk of bias in the knowledge base, the Government considers that the authorities are well aware of the risks and that they develop their cooperation in this regard. The Government also believes that the conditions for cooperation are further improved through the established State Council for Governance with Knowledge. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats would like to emphasise the importance of us citizens being able to have confidence in the authorities responsible for assessing and controlling medicines and their work being followed up. However, we are pleased and satisfied with the responses given by the government in its letter and with the measures it intends to take. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-631	Mr President, I would like to Every time I stand in the speaker's chair, the representatives of the Alliance seem to be competing for who can make up the most terrible opinions I have allegedly had, opinions that have no connection whatsoever to what I say and which I do not feel. I do not think that one treats one another that way in a democracy. I hope this time you'll listen and stop fantasizing. Mr President, I would like to Since 2004, when I started in Parliament as a replacement for illness, I have written motions during the general exercise sessions every year on issues relating to deficiencies and problems with uncertainties and inefficiency in the handling of medicines. All the motions have, of course, been rejected by the government side that has ruled, because that is how it is done here in Parliament. Whether my exercise has contributed to the Swedish National Audit Office having carried out the current audit or not, of course, I have no idea at all. But, Mr President, it was satisfactory to read the report. The Swedish National Audit Office's report means that all the shortcomings that I have pointed out throughout the years in my motions have now been recognised. I think this is a major step towards improvement. The MPA's revenues come mainly from fees paid by pharmaceutical companies for the Agency's investigations, which then form the basis for decisions on whether or not the medicinal products should be sold in Sweden. In order to increase its revenue, the Swedish Medical Products Agency has for many years given priority to taking on as many tasks as possible from the European Medicines Agency as it is more profitable to do so than to put gunpowder on the safety work. In the process of evaluating the safety and effectiveness of medicinal products, the Agency is fully referred to the knowledge that comes from industry. Clinical trials are so expensive that the Agency cannot carry out them on a large scale. If you add to this that almost half of the directors and officials at the Medical Products Agency after some time choose to move on to industry and that a large proportion of those employed at the Agency have previously had jobs in the pharmaceutical industry, it is obvious that there are risks of conflicts of interest. This is a major problem because there are few experts in the field. The individuals who once carried out a developmental work and developed a product in the form of a new drug may therefore very well in practice be the same people as those who hold the role of reviewer of their own work much later on at any of the pharmaceutical authorities around the world. The Swedish National Audit Office also points to research that shows that studies carried out by industry itself show far more favourable results than studies carried out by independent researchers. As the MPA is dependent on published studies, it is also a major problem that companies, according to the audit, selectively choose what they publish. Reports showing what you want to show are published, while reports showing unwanted side effects are not published to the same extent. It has also happened a number of times that companies have been convicted in court for this kind of distortion of information. Although the Swedish Medical Products Agency tries to assess the degree of selective publication, this means that the agency suffers from a significant lack of knowledge in relation to the industry. Nor can I fail to remind the House that the own knowledge base that the Medical Products Agency could build up if a system of adverse reaction reporting that works really shines with its absence. According to the information we have received, an average Swedish doctor reports a single noted side effect every 20 years during his working life. In addition, at the time of the non-profit channel of adverse events, which was called Kilen, it was noted that the side effects reported by doctors were mainly already known side effects, while the general who contacted Kilen in addition to these already known side effects reported on many then not known side effects. The problem picture described by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report fits well with the picture that I myself have obtained through many and long contacts in the field of pharmaceuticals. That is why I am not particularly surprised, Mr President, by the conclusions drawn in the report. It noted that the Agency had given priority to monitoring the safety of medicinal products and that it had difficulty in keeping its tasks separate, both as a promotion and as a controlling body. It considers that the government is also unclear in its governance. In my opinion, perhaps the most strongly criticised criticism is that it is noted that not only the Swedish Medical Products Agency but also the SBU and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, despite the understanding of the general shortcomings that occur in published studies and other supporting materials used for assessing the risks and benefits of new medicines, are unable to compensate for the lack of knowledge in a satisfactory way. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the funding systems that exist can lead to wrong priorities and that the close relationship that exists between industry and government, not least because of the extensive staff flow between the parties, is a problem of integrity. The report also deals with risks of conflict. Mr President, I would like to It is quite natural that, on the basis of all these observations, the investigating authority should also make a number of proposals for measures to be taken. Personally, I could add some additional appropriate measures to move from an insecure and ineffective management of the assessment of new medicines to a safe and effective one. However, the Government makes an entirely different assessment from the Swedish National Audit Office and refers to the fact that within the national pharmaceutical strategy for 2017 there are opportunities for measures to improve, for example, patient safety issues. Reference is also made to preparatory work under way within the Government Office on the regulation of fees for state control of medicinal products. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, it seems to me a great success and a great success that all the shortcomings pointed out by the audit have now emerged in daylight and gained a completely different authority and, thanks to this, is seen in a new way. I now put my trust in the feminist government that we have to make a workshop out of all the knowledge that the report has come up with in the framework of the work that is going on and that we will see clear results from this. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-648	Mr President, I would like to When I reported four minutes' speaking time, I thought I would speak only for the Liberals. But now the Alliance's representatives are here, so maybe I'll pull over by a minute. On 22 September, the Swedish National Audit Office presented to us in the Social Affairs Committee the review and audit they had carried out. Then I asked: Is it taken into account that the Medical Products Agency, the Swedish Medicines Control Agency, is an integral part of EU drug control? The answer was: No, we cannot do that. We can only revise what we do in Sweden. The entire audit will then be halted because most of the approval work is done through the European medicines control, with many Swedish experts but also experts from across the EU. The same applies to the authorisation of the conduct of a clinical trial; it often goes through European drug control. There is a great deal of transparency in terms of access to information. The European medicines control system is extremely careful to check the slightest detail. You almost get the feeling that there is a fear of contact between industry and drug control. This causes the audit to fail. It is assumed that the pharmaceutical industry has an information advantage. I would like to say that the European Medicines Control Agency and the Medical Products Agency have a broad knowledge advantage. The industry knows their medicines while those who work in drug control have a broad and deep picture of the drugs in the different areas. Knowledge is not discussed at all. The issue of innovation is addressed. I raised in the previous debate the European medicines control and the EU's investment in orphan medicines. It is very important to convey your knowledge of the drugs available to patients with rare diagnoses. It is an extremely important piece of information. For me, the problem is that we in Sweden then do not approve some of these medicines because they are too expensive. Pricing is one thing we need to delve into. In the case of adverse reactions, EU Member States have been reporting adverse drug reactions to European medicines control since 2012. There is a special committee that reviews all these side effects. Thanks to the fact that the reports come from all the Member States, one finds earlier new side effects or discovers that the medicines cause more extensive side effects than one had anticipated before. Four days a month, the EU's best experts on drug side effects sit in London and value this. Then we can say that county councils here in Sweden should be better at stimulating this reporting. That is something we should address in the context of health care at another time. Jan Lindholm raised this issue of public reporting. Yes, Kilen did a good job of collecting reports from the public, and it now includes that doctors, dentists, pharmacists, and the general public should report side effects. These are different images you get from this reporting. You get things that can be identified physically but also mentally from the health care system. The general public also provides information on how users feel about the medicine, which is a little more general information. These additional images are good. As far as fee funding is concerned, it is perhaps the case that many people who have worked in this area and know the reasons why we have fees are not there now. In the early 70's we saw that many applications from the industry were incomplete. It took a lot of time from drug control. What was done about it? Yes, instructions were issued as to what these applications should contain, but it was also said that it is reasonable for the industry to pay for the time spent by officials in evaluating the applications. This led to better and more complete applications. The money is managed in such a way that it does not affect the officials involved in the control of medicines. The last thing I want to mention is producer-unlinked pharmaceutical information. This has been the Medical Products Agency, Drug Control, since the '60s. In various ways, information to prescribers has been released as a counterweight to advertising. Advertising is also controlled so that it is not exaggerated or misleading. What happened now in connection with the re-regulation of pharmacies was that the Pharmacy Company was responsible for the Medical Products Book. That responsibility now lies with the Medical Products Agency. The Swedish Medical Products Agency is therefore responsible for providing rich and wide-ranging information that is unrelated to producers. I support the proposal in the report.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-662	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with various motions concerning the structure of government agencies, how the efficiency of state authorities can be improved, and the state as employers and owners of real estate and land. In recent years, several issues have been raised in this area. For example, the question of where the Tax Agency or Arbetsförmedlingen should have its offices, the ability to streamline government operations through digitalisation and how the state actually manages its properties, not least after examining what has happened at the National Property Board. Against this background, which therefore has the potential for political conflicts, the report is still relatively unspectacular. I was going to go into more detail on the moderate exercise concerning student housing in the assignment of Akademiska Hus, to which I hereby request approval. Housing construction has finally started in Sweden. This is necessary in the light of demographic trends, and it is indeed high time for this. We will thank the Alliance for the reforms that were developed and implemented and that have now begun to deliver results, although of course both the economic situation and the strong demand in and with an increasing population play a role. At the same time, it is worth noting that it is still alliance parties that are putting forward concrete proposals for further reforms. Regarding student housing, we want Moderates concretely to complement the assignment to State Academy House with volume targets for residential building so that they have even better opportunities to increase the company's building and ownership of student housing. According to the Student Housing Companies, the shortage of student housing is estimated at 19,000. It is true that this is only a small part of the overall estimated need for new housing. According to Boverket, approximately 440 000 new dwellings are needed by 2020. But student housing through Akademiska Hus is a part that we from national sources have a direct impact on. Otherwise, companies, municipalities and private individuals are actors in the housing market. Therefore, we have moderates a goal of 20 000 student housing to be built by 2020. It is important that students are not forced to turn down a place of education because they do not have a place of residence. The concrete proposals put forward by the Moderates are firstly to speed up the construction of student housing through a particularly shortened procedure for planning and building permit processes with a maximum time limit of nine months for the municipal part, and it should be linked to financial sanctions. Secondly, we want to simplify the rules on noise, for example. It is important to be able to use attractive land near public transport more than is possible today. Thirdly, we want to strengthen the role of higher education institutions and universities in increasing the number of student housing by removing remaining barriers to owning and building them. Fourthly, we want a review of the land supply near universities and higher education institutions in order to build more housing. As mentioned earlier, we also want Akademiska Hus to have a clearer housing assignment with a volume target to quantify and thus increase the speed of their construction and ownership of student housing.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-673	Mr President, I would like to State-owned employers' policy must be characterised by the fact that state authorities are exemplary employers. This means, for example, that government agencies have a special responsibility to combat discrimination in recruitment processes. In order to minimise the risk of arbitrary exclusions of job seekers with a foreign background, the government should come back with proposals on how mandatory requirements profiles in public employment should be designed. The government should also work towards making it mandatory for government authorities to draw up action plans for ethnic diversity in recruitment. The Left Party believes that positive discrimination due to ethnicity should be possible in working life. State employers should be able to actively seek out new employees in under-represented employment groups by asking in particular for people with foreign background. For example, it should be compulsory to draw up an action plan for this. In today's debate, those who come to Sweden are usually reduced to refugees. Their competence and knowledge are thereby made invisible. At the same time, increased internationalisation places increased demands on cross-cultural skills in working life. Anyone who speaks an additional language in addition to the majority language has great benefits from it in his work, and it is becoming increasingly important for companies and authorities to have multilingual employees. For example, I have a friend who works at MSB, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, who speaks Persian. Her competence strengthens the agency in its work with international efforts in the Middle East. Therefore, cross-cultural competence and multilingualism should be considered a merit in all public employments. Studies also show that our government agencies are increasingly using temporary agencies both in their support functions and in the exercise of public authority. The most obvious problem is that private law bodies thus become part of the Authority's core business, but in addition to that, there are additional problems with the use of agency agencies for the exercise of public authority. Firstly, it creates a division of staff. Leased workers have a higher threshold for participation and influence at work. Secondly, it involves a huge cost to the state. There are also cases where there has not been a requirement for collective agreements in government procurement. We therefore believe that the use of temporary agencies by the state should be phased out in the long term. As a first step, the government should work to clarify this in the employers' policy of state authorities. By taking the lead, the state acts as an example. It may, in turn, spread to other social partners. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-683	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the FIU25 report of the Committee on Finance. It deals with various motions, including the state as an employer and the state's real estate, which the two previous speakers have taken care of. Government administration is an important issue for us Social Democrats. It is important for the state to take responsibility for the whole of Sweden and for Sweden to stick together. Then the state's local presence is A and O. People, towns and entire areas should not be left so that they feel abandoned. For a long time, people in our country have experienced the strong force of urbanisation. In connection with this, many activities have disappeared from rural areas and also from ever larger towns, sometimes even entire municipalities. Even residents in the suburbs around Sweden feel that the service disappears in the center. Social services but also commercial services in the form of shops and other small shops disappear. The very experience of impoverishment is also important. A survey by Statskontoret shows that citizens are almost twice as satisfied with the service when they have the Employment Service, Försäkringskassan and the police in the area. The presence of authorities close to where you live is important for many citizens, especially those living in rural areas. However, geographical proximity is not the most important factor in contact with authorities. An answer to questions and rapid processing are more important – regardless of the type of area in which you live. Between 2006 and 2014, there were no major reforms in the relocation and relocation of public works. The bourgeois government ignored the way in which the authorities restructured their geographical presence, and there was no attempt to take a concerted approach to the state administration. Anders Borg and the Moderates were completely uninterested in the question, and from the Center there was really nothing heard. Based on my involvement in the Tax Committee, I know that, for example, the Swedish Customs Agency intended to basically abandon the whole of northern Sweden, which among other things was stopped by tough interpellations to Anders Borg. When today's central tax authorities were created from the previous regional tax authorities, it was clear in the proposal of the then S-government that regional considerations should be taken into account in terms of services and offices. It was forgotten under bourgeois rule, and the Tax Agency was suddenly underway with office closures and impoverishment of the duties of certain smaller offices. The present government stopped this, and in opposition, among other bourgeois members of parliament poured under the banners to save the countryside. When you look at the position of the authorities in our country, you can see that there is a big difference in the distribution. More than half of the country's authorities are located in Stockholm. There are four, almost five, in Gothenburg. There are two in Malmö, two in Halmstad and zero in Varberg. I have tried to get an authority to Varberg, which is my municipality. However, the Minister is not particularly in favour of G at the moment on this issue. Mr President, I would like to There are several gains in having a state presence throughout the country. Democracy is strengthened with increased state presence. It can be seen that the citizens of the country are happier that the authorities are in their place than, for example, the Stockholms. I think it is a question of Stockholmers being so used to being present that they do not appreciate it, or rather they see the authorities as a self-evident part of the city. There are not many people in Stockholm who go around and are worried that, for example, Försäkringskassan will leave the city completely. The country's economic growth is also benefiting. Of course, Statskontoret's investigation says that you can't see any direct dynamic effects. But I can promise that in places out in the country where the agency is a major employer, the people are very pleased that they have jobs, and they are not very worried about any lack of dynamic effects. For us Social Democrats, the authorities are an important addition to the local labour market, not least by offering interesting career paths. We definitely believe that they contribute to strengthening regional and local dynamism. The government is working on the issues on several fronts. For example, we have announced that the E-Health Agency will be relocated from Stockholm to Kalmar. In addition, the new gender equality agency will be located in Gothenburg. That is very pleasing. However, not everything is just about physical and geographical presence. In the digital world in which we live and operate, it is important for our companies and citizens to be able to access the information provided by the authorities via their websites. This is why the government has raised Sweden's digital ambitions so that more than half a million more Swedes will have access to fast broadband within four years. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is based on a common idea of the wisdom of staying together. The Alliance betrayed the countryside during eight years of reigning. Now the government has made a clear change of course in Swedish administrative policy, where we build on the idea of Community and cohesion. For decades, developments and political decisions have led to too different urban-country conditions. Of course, we Social Democrats are not entirely blameless in this. But now we take a new course based on this challenge and make sure to improve the conditions for living and working throughout our elongated country.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-703	Mr President, I would like to The issue that the Committee on Defence is now going to debate in this House concerns the protection of privacy when signaling in defence intelligence activities. It is not without my thoughts going back to the years 2006 and 2007 when the current legislation was passed here in Parliament. In the light of the current international situation, it can well be said that it was fortunate that this decision was taken and that we had a tangible opportunity to follow in the ether what constitutes a potential threat to the Swedish national security. We note that the monitoring bodies designed to ensure that the signalling is carried out within the framework of the law have made no mention whatsoever of the signalling activities, at least for 2015. It is also believed that there has been nothing improper. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to move on to a so-called announcement that the committee has proposed in relation to Nord Stream 2. As is well known, in 2016 it became apparent that the company that will build two new gas pipes going from Saint Petersburg down to Greifswald in Germany intended to operate part of this construction at two Swedish ports, namely Slite and Karlshamn. Both these ports are strategically sensitive to Sweden. Slite is the easternmost port in the country and has always been a potential port of entry for an opponent. Karlshamn is sensitive in the sense that it is located in a cluster of military activities, near our only remaining naval base and also in the vicinity of F 17, where we have both fighter planes and helicopters relocated. It was clear early in the process that the government felt that it lacked legal possibilities to stop an establishment in both Slite and Karlshamn. Reference was made to the Companies Act, reference was made to the Local Government Act and finally reference was also made to the form of government and the municipal self-government that is inscribed there. I do not disagree with the government on this issue. I also believe that the legal possibilities for intervention were very limited. Early in the autumn, the Minister for Defence and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that Sweden should now make a review so that in the future we will have the opportunity to intervene when we feel that Swedish security interests are threatened. However, this early investigation has not even come about on the day that is today. The committee feels it is urgent that the investigation be carried out and that we have the legal tools to intervene in such situations. We are also concerned that similar requests, similar interests, may arise from foreign companies in relation to other facilities and other infrastructure in the country. We therefore believe that, in addition to setting up an investigation and acquiring permanent legal tools to intervene, the government also states how to act before such a permanent legislation is in place. This will make the committee aware of whether the vote, Mr President, is taking place as I suspect it will.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-716	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps a little surprising – no, not at all surprising – I am going to touch on the same things as Allan Widman: of course the report before us, the protection of privacy in the field of defence intelligence, but also the ability of the state to protect the interests of total defence. Perhaps these are the issues that concern us the most. When this issue of privacy was discussed, or when it came to the fore, it was a rather tough debate. Many parties had quite a hard time handling it. At present, the debate is quite different. We have quite a good understanding of why this is an important activity. That's because, I think, our world around us is quite different. Perhaps we were a little naive or still living in some hysteria after the end of the Cold War and thought it would always be so. I believe that it is important to understand and prepare for events in the outside world that we can build up knowledge of it all, in essence, of course, in order to safeguard democracy and human rights. However, although I think it is now quite simple, I would still like to say that it is important to protect the privacy of the individual. That is the case, but I think that the report or report that we have on the table today clearly shows that we comply with the rules and laws that apply to the area and ensure that they are complied with. This means that the control mechanism that we have built up with Siun and the Defence Intelligence Court works well. Mr President, I would like to To move on to this issue of the state's ability to protect total defence interests, i.e. the committee initiative that exists here, I would like to start at this end: Among the most beautiful things I know in Swedish democracy is the local self-government. It is in some way that people, local politicians, who are closest to the people affected by various issues can handle those issues. I think it's extremely important. I usually say that something in Swedish democracy is unique and we should be extremely proud of it. On the other hand, it must of course be the state that takes responsibility for foreign and security policy. It is quite unreasonable to impose the requirement to deal with it on municipal politicians. I think that's where Allan Widman and I share exactly the same view. It is quite clear, after many years and various governments that have not seen this problem and have not acted, that the government is now acting. It was quite clear in People and Defense, when the Prime Minister presented the national security strategy, that this was an important area, where an investigation was to be set up to review the regulations and get to grips with it. That means the government is working on this. Then, of course, it is complicated because the question of how to deal with it will certainly affect the Swedish constitution. But there will, I think, be some symbolic politics when we deal with it this way, when we make an announcement and tell the government that it will do something that it already does. It's gonna be a little symbolic politics for me. On the other hand, I see the problem and that we must be able to get to grips with it. With those words, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 7 and otherwise of the proposal as a whole.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-725	Mr President, I would like to After all, the report 5 is a recurring history in the Committee on Defence as far as its content is concerned. The Government describes or describes for the day how the various instruments to control the signal intelligence activities or the collection operations at the Swedish Defence Radio Agency work. As the previous speaker and the committee have pointed out, these control activities are working well. It's with both suspenders and life belt we combine intelligence retrieval with the need for privacy protection in this country. Intelligence retrieval is per se intrusion into someone's privacy somewhere along the way, so it's a constant balance. Signal reconnaissance can be done by man if we want to, in different ways. However, when it is a state that exercises it, it is all the more important in a state governed by the rule of law that this is well managed and that there is the possibility for the individual to examine whether or not he or she has been picked up if he or she suspects it. It is also something that is reported in this letter and also in the report. Yes, Mr President, the need for intelligence collection has always been great. The notifications are either your own or that of others, but it is only your own that you can fully trust. It is no secret that intelligence is something that one cooperates with the nations with which one feels so to speak. But it is not a rewarding activity like that, but it is clear that there must be something to trade with. We have one of the best intelligence services in the world, I would say. We have a very high reputation around the world for our knowledge and the collection that we conduct. Now it is above all the Defence Radio Agency that we are dealing with in this report. Let me, like Allan Widman, take a little look back to ten years ago, when we first dealt with this, to those of us who were in the storm – blogstorm and debate storm – who then raged and what came out on the other side, that is, the agreement that was concluded in 2009 and supplemented in 2013. Many of us – especially me, who worked ten years at the Defence Radio Institute with these very activities and who have also worked for Säpo – had experience of the integrity defence that existed at the agency already then and the self-censorship that prevails. For your knowledge only, that is to say that working on a task you do not share it with your closest colleague. For data that are of such a nature that they may violate privacy, an instrument was already in place to ensure that they are well managed. I was saddened by my former colleagues when I saw how they were treated, Mr President, because the signal reconnaissance debate was very much about anything other than what the Defence Radio Institute is doing. Basically, it was a technology development that led to that the collection that previously took place, i.e. only in the ether, was no longer to fill. Information was also needed in fibre and other threads, i.e. data traffic, to a large extent. For this they had turned to the former Social Democratic Government – this was before the turn of the government in 2006 – and talked about the need for legislation on what was previously the practice. This was not done then, but by the Alliance Government starting in 2006. But when that debate started, there was a confusion between what the FRA does and does not do. There were stakeholders who obviously had an interest in the Defence Radio Agency not being given this opportunity: various PR agencies whose funding was not ready. It was about different editions and who was number one in the blog debate. There were also politicians who may not have had full understanding and respect for what this meant. The debate became extremely bitter in a way that took different forms. Among other things, the debate had an impact on our national security interests. Several of the authorities that had previously been able to focus the FRA's signal reconnaissance lost that right; it was limited to the government, the Government Office and the Swedish Armed Forces. Mr President, I would like to We have since restored some of this, especially the possibility for the Swedish Criminal Police and Säpo to focus the Swedish Defence Radio Institute. However, there were four years of blindness in terms of, for example, the collection of information on terrorist movements. This takes time to build up, and so we have in a motion and in reservation 3, to which I call for approval, together with the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, called for the Inspection of Strategic Products to be given the opportunity to re-focus the Swedish Armed Forces' signal reconnaissance. Then what is it? Yes, it is the authority that deals with our defence exports. We are all aware that we obviously want to know where our defence equipment goes. We also want to be part of the control of armaments worldwide. In this context, the experts of the Strategic Product Inspection should be able to focus the FRA on the basis of their specific needs so that country assessments and other intelligence needs are also woven into the picture in order to assess whether it is possible to export to the end-users who are recipients of our defence exports. Another part of the report on which I would also like to say a few words, Mr President, is that on the home level. I apologise for going over time, but in addition to what Mr Widman has previously highlighted, a slight digression is required on Nord Stream and the announcement we have addressed to the government to speed up legislation on our national security interests. There's a lot to say about Nord Stream 1. There is much to discuss about the approach with Gazprom and Nord Stream and all that it entails, in particular so-called hybrid warfare and the part of this that applies to Russia. But Nord Stream 1 was up to date under the previous government. The government delayed as much as possible in terms of environmental aspects, but the law of the sea is as it is. The law of the sea also applies today to Nord Stream 2. The difference compared to about ten years ago is that there is a significant deterioration in the security situation. With regard to the discussion that arose after Nord Stream last year reported interest in renting land in Slite on Gotland and in Karlshamn in my county of Blekinge, I must pay tribute to the government, which set down its foot and said that it advised the municipalities concerned not to enter into a lease with Nord Stream. Unfortunately, the municipal politicians in Karlshamn did not listen to this but chose to go ahead with the agreement, with all that it means. The government, through statements by the Minister for Defence, has said that in this context it intends to call on the armed forces, customs and police to contribute to maintaining some sort of security zone within their regular tasks. I have asked a question about this, and both Minister Ygeman and Minister for Defence Hultqvist have given the answer that it should be done within the framework of ordinary activities. Continued. Finally, without reconnaissance, no idea. With suspenders and belt, we get a well-functioning operation. I'm proud of the intelligence we have in this country. I would like to say a big thank you to the staff at the Defence Radio Institute for the important work they do and also to the other control mechanisms for the work they do. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-k3bDT7rqU8TFj15kBAD4u	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 2. We agree with everything that has been said in all the wise contributions from, among others, Allan Widman and Annicka Engblom. We share the view that the FRA is very important and does a great job, and I'm not going to talk much more about it; everything is said. However, we can look at this with suspenders and belt. As you know, we have tried to establish protected areas. We have been exercising on this but with little success. However, I believe that, in addition to the FRA operations, we should ensure that we get back protected areas – perhaps not in the same way as before but expanded in the important places. It gives authority. We fully share the view that this must be done urgently; this legislation is urgent. Instead, Mr President, I would like to talk a little about Mr Siun. After all, they carry out some form of inspection: monitoring the application of laws. They have nothing to complain about when it comes to the FRA, as I can see. It is an important control activity carried out there, and I find it a little surprising that you are saying no to let us be there. Members from all other parties are included, but not from the Swedish Democrats. We have exercised that the number of members should be increased so that all parties, regardless of their size, will have a representative in Siun in the future and present. It would be interesting to hear someone come up and tell us why you don't think we could be represented in Siun. We believe that this is also a democratic issue. Why is it that a party is excluded from having a member in Siun? It should be limited to a certain number, you say. But it's just to increase the number. It is also in the reservation we have. However, I would like someone to come up and explain why you have voted against our participation in this.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-748	Mr President, I would like to I'll first say a little bit about signal reconnaissance in general. It is an activity that we Greens have previously pointed out could potentially pose a challenge or a threat to privacy. In this context, however, it must be said that it is an important part of the Swedish intelligence work. Own credible intelligence information is crucial for a country to be able to conduct an independent foreign and security policy. The Green Party has always stressed the importance of safeguarding personal integrity and of ensuring that intelligence is never misused. It is therefore a good thing that the government should present a letter like this, which shows how integrity can be taken into account when signal reconnaissance is carried out. Today, the FRA is mainly examined by Siun. The processing of personal data in the FRA is reviewed by the Swedish Data Protection Authority, for example, whose reviews of the FRA have recently been reviewed by the Swedish National Audit Office. The reviewers are therefore also being examined. These are important control mechanisms to ensure a legally secure signal detection and to continue to be evaluated and fine-tuned to ensure the best possible respect for privacy. Then I'll mention something about the total defense discussion. During the autumn, we have seen several examples of green issues such as municipal self-determination, investment in wind power and the possibility of important jobs being put against the complex issue of our national security interests. This is in many ways a fine balance between, on the one hand, being able to pursue forward-looking and sustainable policies for the whole of Sweden and, on the other hand, evaluating national security interests adequately. It is important that the state is given the opportunity to protect the urgent interests of total defence, as well as socially important infrastructure. Of course, many people wonder when the government does not have the necessary powers to review local decisions when national security interests arise. The Parliament has formulated the objectives of Sweden's security, such as protecting the lives and health of the population, safeguarding the functionality of society and safeguarding our ability to uphold our fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. As a government-supporting party, it is our duty to ensure that this security is also ensured. It is therefore positive that the government is now looking at these issues and looking at what could be done and studying the possible constitutional changes that it could entail. However, we can also note that the issue is as complex as it is urgent and that the review will require careful balance between different interests in order to ensure that restrictions on municipal self-government or fundamental rights do not go beyond what is necessary in view of the purpose that has given rise to them. That is precisely why it is a little strange that the opposition parties have raised a follow-up motion that the government should speed through this process instead of doing solid and thorough work. It is about changes, potentially in the constitution, which are not suitable for opportunist, accelerated decisions. It should also be in the interests of the opposition that this is done adequately. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 7.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-756	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with more issues than just privacy protection, including one of our many proposals in a rather broad peace and security policy exercise. I would therefore like to begin by commending NATO's Commander-in-Chief and the President of the United States. Maybe it's not normal. However, it is not one of the people I am now sitting at the time, but a man who, on a slightly different occasion, had both of these posts, namely Dwight D. Eisenhower. There is certainly much to criticise him for, but there are also some positive things to say. He resisted, among other things, unlike his successor, pressure from his party to reduce taxes in favour of having a budget in order. He was in favour of a certain expansion of social security programs initiated by Franklin D. Roosevelt. He worked pretty well on integration issues. Finally, when the White House expressed its support for federal measures to guarantee universal suffrage and desertion in the southern states, he was the president. Foreign policy pursued Eisenhower's promise of a cease-fire with North Korea, leading to the end of the Korean war. At least he was reluctant when Britain's Prime Minister Winston Churchill wanted to support the coup in Iran that brought the Shah to power, referring to foreign interference in the affairs of other states. Not many people today remember that the CIA staged the coup d'état that came to be called Operation Ajax. The elected President Mossadeq was deposed and liquidated. But then he had also committed a terrible crime: he had nationalized the Anglo-Anglo-Iranian Oil Company and their oil fields; hence Churchill, of course, justified and understandable anger. Well, he did one more thing, and now I'm getting close to the subject here. Apart from the fact that he coined the fine expression, the military industrial complex, as a problem, he also launched the idea of, in other words, mutual reconnaissance over each other's territories – common security, of which we were all supporters a few decades ago but which has now become something completely different. I believe that the government, together with neighbouring countries, should work towards an increased space for reconnaissance flights in the immediate area. So we in the Left Party want President Dwight D. Eisenhowers's agreement to be upgraded, so to speak. It would benefit everyone's safety, especially in the light of all these violations of Swedish airspace. I saw that last year there were as many as 20: a Russian and 19 from NATO. This may be good to remember. I think it's just as good to have open skies, so we don't have to call it violations. I think we should take advantage of this. Now, Mr President, I would like to move on to the main point. We are not fully satisfied with either the government's letter or the report on privacy protection. I believe that the government should come back with proposals for measures to ensure that the control functions and the information provided to Parliament really work. The so-called FRA law has given the FRA quite a large right to far-reaching interception of internet traffic. Just as Annicka Engblom was concerned, the law could only be approved by the Riksdag after several control mechanisms had been built up to reassure a concerned and critical public. However, as far as the control is concerned, I note that the Government does not make any comments on the activity in its letter. Nor has the committee, which regularly meets with the FRA, been informed that there would be any problems with the system. The Privacy Council, which was built up as a guarantor here, has had no objection to the application of the FRA law for eight years. Siun has for the first time notified a case to the Swedish Data Protection Authority for a period of eight years. Then I guess everything's all right, you can think. But is that really so? One would think that if there had not been serious shortcomings in the way the FRA handles its personal data in the media. I believe that the FRA has misbehaved that approach. It has been said that such material should be kept separately in order to ensure, as Siun describes it, that only authorised personnel take note of and process the report. That has not been the case. Furthermore, as I have said, the FRA's Privacy Council has not alerted the Authority once for eight years, despite the fact that other reviews have repeatedly identified serious deficiencies. For example, the Swedish Data Protection Authority criticised how FRA handled personal data in 2015 and that the agency had poor control of how employees search for sensitive information. The government's letter gives the impression that the system is functioning well and that no specific measures need to be taken to ensure personal integrity. But, as I said, I do not share that view. The fact that Parliament is only made aware through the media of these shortcomings seems to me to be a major problem. I believe that the shortcomings identified should be addressed as soon as possible. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 1.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-768	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3, signal reconnaissance and weapons of mass destruction. I don't have to argue for it. Other speakers have done so. Instead, I would like to dwell on another question. It concerns the state's ability to protect total defence interests. There the committee has decided on a committee initiative. The committee proposes that the Riksdag endorse what the committee says about the state's ability to protect total defence interests and announce this to the government. The committee's view is that it is urgent that the issue be the subject of a broad and thorough investigation aimed at finding general solutions to the various situations where the interests of the total defence need special protection. What does that discussion come from? Well, it comes from what I think most people in Sweden know, namely what happened on 31 January this year. Karlshamn's municipal politician then made a decision regarding national security. Despite strong advice from the government and the expert authorities Must, Säpo, FRA and the Swedish Armed Forces, the municipality decided that Nord Stream 2 should be allowed to use the port for the construction of gas pipes during the approximately two years planned for the project. Nord Stream 2 is 100 percent owned by Gazprom. Gazprom is a state-of-the-art company governed entirely by the Kremlin. That is why the Kremlin's arm was extended. It is unreasonable for the municipality to have the opportunity to make such an important decision. As has been pointed out here, this is about local self-government. But this was not a new issue for the government, but something that came up earlier. The government had the opportunity to sign a letter with other countries a year ago. Then the question was raised in the beginning of autumn. There would have been plenty of time, together with the alliance parties, to get legislation in place. That's not what happened. There was a press conference on December 13th. At the last moment, contact was made with the local politicians. Yet this was the result. This was not listened to. It was felt that it was more important to have the 100 million promised and the jobs. It is therefore of the utmost importance that this legislation should be put in place. It is unreasonable that it is not the Swedish Government that can make this kind of decision. That is the background to these wordings. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I call for the approval of reservation 3.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-773	Mr President, I would like to This is a bit complicated. I fully agree with the need for such legislation. It is not reasonable that the state cannot, as it were, deal with and decide on important security policy interests. However, I think it is very strange to have Karlshamn as an example. What is the example of Karlshamn? Well, it's about a Dutch company, Wasco, loading and unloading pipes in the port of Karlshamn. I find it difficult to get excited by it, other than perhaps for environmental reasons, but it is a completely different discussion. How does it look in Karlshamn? Yes, you have 1 100 calls per year. It is estimated that there are about 700 boats with some kind of Russian interest. Apparently, we're closing the port of Karlshamn-- that's probably the logic. They want to do this even though the Swedish Armed Forces say that the security problems they have painted are manageable. We should still ban it. We want to do this despite the fact that our neighbour Finland is definitely not getting excited in the same way. We could get testimony about that from the Prime Minister of Finland, the centre party stone, who very calmly said: Yes, they already store pipes in Kotka and in Hanko, so there will be some more pipes there. That's what he said when Gotland said no. More excited than that, he wasn't. Then we're still talking about Hanko, who the Soviet Union occupied after the Winter War. In Finland, we were told that this is not a security policy problem. It's a commercial company. It is very difficult to understand the point of the violently-screwed tone if there are no other reasons, namely to constantly make for the NATO accession that Mikael Oscarsson and his colleagues on the bourgeois edge strive for.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-778	Mr President, I would like to It is at first gratifying that Stig Henriksson and I have a common ground and that he thinks it is unreasonable that decisions should be made at municipal level regarding national security. There's a point there. But then there will be minus points. It is a fairly clear example of the strange flow of information. It is true that the harbor manager said far and wide that it is 700 Russian ships. It was used as an argument, just as the honourable Member is now doing. It was good that Mr Stig Henriksson raised this issue, because it then turned out that it was not 700. It wasn't 70. That was 7. There were 7 Russian ships calling at the port. So there's a little bit wrong in mathematics. The question is: should we consider what the Swedish Armed Forces say, what the FRA says, what Säpo says and what the Minister for Defence says, namely that it is bad for national security? What information does Stig Henriksson have that makes him so casually say that this is nothing to listen to?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-781	Mr President, I would like to I didn't say-- I don't think the harbor manager said-- that it was 700 Russian ships. There were 700 ships with Russian interest in one form or another – ownership, cargo or something else. I don't think you should try the Swedish Armed Forces, but that's what Mikael Oscarsson wants to do. The Swedish Armed Forces say that the problems that have been painted are manageable with the solutions they have come up with. Then there is the consistency of this. The same parties that defend a trade offensive with regard to China, Iran and Saudi Arabia on the grounds that trade is so great in the long term for democratic development – and I do not know all about it – say that it is exactly the opposite of trade with Russia. I don't really make that logic go together. The same parties that say, when it comes to lignite, that we should not interfere in Germany's energy policy – they should be allowed to manage themselves – are now saying that we should ensure that Germany does not use fossil gas as an aid in the argumentation. The same parties who are concerned that Gazprom is building this pipeline are totally turning a blind eye to a much worse security policy problem in that case, namely that similar state-owned Rosatom is building nuclear power stations, nuclear installations, in our neighbouring country, Finland, with which, unlike gas, we have common management systems. How can it be that thermostat consciousness strikes and of so regularly, Mikael Oscarsson?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-787	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what thermostat Stig Henriksson is after. But we still have to stick to the question of ships, because it was actually the case that the harbor manager then apologized: I am sorry, I have misunderstood! What was at issue was that 392 ships or something had Russian crew members, and we must not confuse Russian citizens and businesses in general with some sort of general stop. No, what we're talking about here and what the Swedish Armed Forces places emphasis on is a wholly owned Russian state-owned company run by the Kremlin! That is why they say that it is not good for Sweden to have them either in Slite on Gotland or in Karlshamn. Now that you run over the defense with this local decision, including with reference to the incorrect number that even Stig Henriksson continues, it will cost a lot in security devices with counterintelligence. This will be bad, and so we will come back to the basic question: It is important that the government get this kind of legislation in place so that in the future it is actually the government of Sweden that makes this kind of decision. Local politicians should not have to think about that.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-791	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, In the interests of a democratic rule of law, it is important to have proper protection of privacy. The defence intelligence activities are carefully regulated in laws and regulations, including with a view to protecting individuals' personal integrity. For the Center Party, we have never been against Sweden having signal intelligence capabilities. Instead, we have worked hard to get as strong a review and control as possible, a legally secure handling of data and a limitation on what can be checked on and when. It is therefore a good thing that the control measures, i.e. the judicial review and control and review of the signalling activities introduced in the legislation, seem to work as we can read in the letter from the government. Having said that, privacy issues are an aspect that must always be in focus and constantly reviewed. There must be no confusion. It is therefore good that Siun has addressed this to the Swedish Data Protection Authority regarding the interpretation of a provision in the law on the processing of personal data in the FRA's defence intelligence and development activities and that the Swedish Data Protection Authority has brought the Government's attention to the need to review the provision. This shows that the control system seems to work as it should, and the Center Party will continue to monitor how the government is working on this review and expects it to be a swift approach. When it comes to the announcement proposed by the committee in the report, it is an important proposal that the government should agree to review the state's ability to protect total defence interests. Over the past year, it has become increasingly clear that there are constitutional constraints on the state's ability to protect the urgent interests of total defence. With goodwill, we can interpret this as being so spared from military threats that we could ignore this aspect of the legislation. From a realistic perspective, however, it can be said that this has been on the verge of naive and short-term. We are living in a time of increased concern, at a time of security policy challenges not only in parts of the world far away but in our absolute neighbourhood. Russia has shown that it is prepared to act aggressively to protect its national interests. We can read this in various security strategies, including the one from 2009, where it appears that protecting the lives and interests of Russian citizens abroad is a national security interest and that this is something for which the Kremlin has said it is prepared to start war. We must take this seriously. Sweden has strengthened its military capability and presence on Gotland since the last decision. That's good. Slite port is a strategically located port. It is therefore not appropriate to allow companies with a clear link to the Russian regime to rent Slite port or, for that matter, other central strategic ports in Sweden. Russia has previously used its gas pipelines as a political weapon. It would therefore be naive to see Nord Stream as a purely commercial or technical project. We also need to see the security policy dimensions and do what we can to ensure that this does not go further. I also expect the government to be at the forefront of EU cooperation. The Center Party defends both municipal self-government and business freedom. There is no doubt about that. But we must not end up in a situation where our country's overall defence interests are threatened because the state has been limited in its decision-making on these important issues. Social infrastructure that is crucial to the urgent interests of total defence must be protected. We therefore call for the motion for a decision to be approved by the Parliament in support of what the committee says about the ability of the state to protect the interests of total defence and for this to be made known to the government.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-802	Mr President, I would like to When talking about intelligence, it may be useful to inform you of the reservation to be accepted. I would like to make it clear that I am in favour of reservation 3 of the report and agree with the announcement made regarding Nord Stream, or rather the need for legislation on national security interests in the balance between it and municipal self-government. Let me, as a small conclusion, still win to formulate that what is important in this announcement. It is precisely that things have been put at their head in a way that it has not previously done. I have been surprised at the way in which the government, together with organisations jointly, has questioned. The military intelligence service, the security police, the defence radio facility and others have declined to conclude this agreement, yet this is seen as a purely political issue. Gazprom and Nord Stream are not just any company. To allow them to enter military strategicly very sensitive and vulnerable areas in our country, specifically Slite and Gotland, as well as Blekinge with its aircraft flotilla and main marina base, would be completely unfortunate. This is anything but a trade policy issue; this is very much a matter for our national security interests, and so we have to do such a review and review so that this does not happen in the future.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-805	Mr President, I would like to It's probably almost two years since I visited our military helicopter operations at Kallax outside Luleå. There I was told that the fact that support for civil society is no longer dimensional for our armed forces has led, among other things, to the fact that helicopter drivers must not take into account the fact that each summer they will extinguish forest fires in the hinterland of Norrland. They can't even plan their vacation after this. It would in itself be in favour of supporting civil society. What happens every summer when the fires are going to be extinguished is that you have to call in people from their on-going holidays and find ad hoc solutions. I mention this as an example of how much we have moved from, for example, the 1990s, when the Armed Forces and the collective resources in society were used for crisis management and for support to civil society. At the time, there was widespread support, which I would say, Mr President, helped to increase the capacity of military units. When the forest fires were to be extinguished and when the patients were to be picked up in the archipelago, the helicopters had to work every day. They worked as long as the demands were made. However, when support for civil society became a dimensional task, there were also problems with our helicopter weapons, among other things. You could even go so far as to say that five or six years ago our helicopter weapon had a near-death experience that is now happily out of hand. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore important that the committee now informs the government that a review of the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society is needed. I believe that Mr President was also in the defence committee which presented this proposal to the government a few years ago. It is good if the review is now carried out. There's a lot that goes under the general heading and military questions. There are also more announcements here. One applies to the training and shooting fields. They shall be tested in accordance with the environmental code. We can note from the committee that when the Swedish Armed Forces now intend to expand their activities in various areas, this will conflict with the slow management of the environmental permits for our training fields that have been in place for a long time. Today, no less than 17 cases are on the government's table for decisive decisions, and they will have an impact on our ability to train our units and thus increase operational capacity, as stated in the latest orientation decision. It is important for the government to go through and graze the examination permits so that we get the opportunities that the international situation requires in this regard. Last but not least – defense music! There is a defence music corps in Blekinge called the Marine Music Corps. They have been saved by the current government from closure, but they are, probably with some right to do, experiencing a constant threat of decommissioning of the music corps. In order to improve their chances of survival and to safeguard the military music culture heritage, the committee has now decided to make the government aware that, in addition to participating in the so-called state ceremonial, i.e. in connection with festival days in Sweden, the music corps will also have the opportunity to turn to a general audience and thus broaden its audience. It is important for this music corps, which has 300 years on its back and which, Mr President, hopefully can now look forward to 300 more years. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-EppiyH1qv2AFA58noPDTfW	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for reservations 10 and 17 and for the other points to be approved by the committee. This debate deals with motions on, among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces' organisation and practice activities. The common denominator is the desire to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces' ability and war ability, although we may have a slightly different view of how it is done in the best way. It is particularly pleasing to be able to discuss these issues today, given that the government decided this morning to reactivate military service. This means that from next year, summer 2018, the Swedish Armed Forces will be able to complete basic education with complete classes. Since the introduction of the new staff supply system in 2010, the Swedish Armed Forces have stood with a large proportion of empty chairs, and now they have a system that creates flexibility and a long-term perspective. The decision is one in a series of decisions taken to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces' capabilities since the government took office in autumn 2014. The report shows that several athletes highlight the importance of increased exercise activities. The exercise activities are crucial for the Swedish Armed Forces' ability and war ability. It is therefore positive that, following the last orientation decision, we are now seeing a clear increase in practice activities. In 2016, we have also seen that just over a thousand people have completed refresher training in eleven places around the country. Only at Lv6 in Halmstad, 400 people completed refresher training. The fact that these people have been able to carry out refresher training is important for the Swedish Armed Forces' ability, as is the fact that the units can not only practice but also that they can practice with complete units. It's something they couldn't before the government made the decision to activate the rehearsal obligation in autumn 2014. Mr President, I would like to In the report, the Left Party proposes that the government set targets and interim targets that mean that within six years there will be 40% women in international efforts. I share the view of the need for women in the Swedish Armed Forces' international activities and the need for women in the Swedish Armed Forces in general. But I think we need to start at the end with women in the Armed Forces in general. We still have a big trip to make there. In 2016, 5,553 women applied for the Swedish Armed Forces' basic education, while 25,676 men did. Here lies the great challenge. I hope that the introduction of gender-neutral duty can lead more women to consider whether the Swedish Armed Forces can be something for them. For generations, military service has been part of the lives of many men, and most of them have had to reflect. With the decision that has been taken today, women will also have to deal with the issue of military service. Hopefully we will also see it in future educational hills. The Swedish Armed Forces have a lot of work ahead of them when it comes to gender equality, although it has already done a substantial and solid job. It is therefore also gratifying that the Swedish Armed Forces itself has presented clear targets for increasing the number of women over the next ten years in its budget base for 2018. The fact that more women are interested in the Swedish Armed Forces is absolutely essential if we are to get the staff we need in terms of both quantity and quality. Mr President, I would like to The standards we grow up with characterize how we view the world and the challenges we face. Changing structures therefore requires both more representation of the underrepresented sex and new glasses. This was noted by the UN when, 17 years ago, resolution 1325 on women's particular vulnerability to conflict and the need for women's participation in peace processes was adopted. The resolution has since been supplemented by several resolutions in which Resolution 1820 has been given a particularly important role because it recognises that sexual violence is used as a means of war. To see how structures affect different groups in a society, tools are needed. When the Armed Forces participate in international efforts, it is to protect the civilian population and to promote stability and security. To accomplish that mission, soldiers need to understand what needs there are and how different groups are exposed. The Swedish Armed Forces' Gender Centre, the Nordic Centre for Gender in Military Operations, is the world leader when it comes to teaching methods to ensure that military operations address the needs of the entire population, i.e. to provide tools to specifically see and understand the vulnerability of women and children. The centre is a Nordic cooperation, and it was appointed in 2013 as head of the gender area within NATO. The Centre is a crucial part of the Swedish Armed Forces meeting the requirements of the UN. To date, 144 nations have participated in education. The fact that women and children are particularly vulnerable to armed conflicts is a fact that I hope we can agree on in this room. I am therefore proud that the Swedish Armed Forces have taken on the leadership shirt and are engaged in activities that both NATO and other countries are seeking. For me as a social democrat, it is therefore completely incomprehensible that the Swedish Democrats want to abolish an activity that improves the living conditions of women and children. Madam President, I would like Since the decision in 2015, Sweden has a new defence policy focus. It focuses on strengthening the capacity and the capacity for war. The focus is on returning to the fact that the defence is a total defence, where the civilian and the military are interrelated. Even in the event of increased preparedness, society must function. A functioning civil defence is therefore crucial in order to have a robust society that can cope with crisis and war. In December 2015, the Government decided on planning instructions for civil defence, which means, among other things, that authorities at regional and central level will resume planning for their preparedness for civil defence. Around the authorities, work is now being done to strengthen abilities and manage crisis situations. The Swedish Armed Forces and the police carry out joint exercises in accordance with the decree on Swedish Armed Forces' support to the police in combating terrorism. Later in May, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency is conducting a crisis preparedness week for the first time to raise awareness of what people themselves can and need to cope with in a crisis situation. In the 2017 regulatory letter, the Government has commissioned Totalförsvarets recruitment agency, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the Swedish Defence Research Institute, among other things, to place all personnel required for operations under increased preparedness. Civil organisations are already in a position to deploy personnel to ensure that the organisation is in an elevated state of preparedness. In order to make society more robust to cope with crises, NGOs are an extremely important party. They contribute with a broad knowledge, commitment and ability to strengthen the broad security work. Their activities are an important part of creating peoples' support. They help to increase the ability of individuals to cope with serious crises, accidents and incidents. I would like to conclude by thanking all of you who are working every day to strengthen our ability and to strengthen people's attachment.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-827	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 9, 13 and 19. In recent years, Swedish defence has been a major focus. The new deteriorating security policy situation places tough demands on Swedish defence and security policy. There is no other line here than the line of responsibility. This is true in all areas of defence, both in terms of human resources for the military part of the defence, and in terms of how best to increase our commitment to civil defence. Moreover, for the Moderates, planning for membership of NATO is an important political objective. In order to achieve the objectives, we are also prepared to take budgetary responsibility for providing increased resources for our defence. Increased security policy tension can be seen in certain military strategic areas, such as the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is an important transit area if Baltic countries are exposed to threats and need to be rescued. Russia has a significant missile capacity in the Kaliningrad clan. It is missiles that can pose a threat, also to Sweden. For this reason, we see from a moderate point of view it as a good measure to combine the Patriot system with the United States in Swedish territory. It is about building the best operational capacity as an individual country but also building it together with others. Alone is never strong. We hope that the host country agreement will be a first step towards our becoming full members of NATO. Individual agreements between Sweden and other NATO countries and Finland are good, but full membership of NATO would be better. It is safer to be more involved in cooperation than to make agreements with individual countries. Agreements that should apply in the event of crisis and war are not just any agreement. It is important that they hold when everything else falls. As a NATO member, Sweden would have a lot to offer partners. One example is access to the Swedish shooting fields. Out in Europe, shooting fields are a major shortage. The Swedish training areas that exist could also have a better profitability, and they would be used more rationally by several. This may increase the volume of activities that we have in the country today in relation to the production of ammunition. This is also important in order to maintain the high level of competence. In addition to Russia, there is also increased uncertainty elsewhere. Both EU cooperation and the transatlantic link – which we often tend to take for granted – are being tested. The brutal and protracted conflicts in the neighbourhood of the EU are continuing. The threats of violent extremism and terrorism have not waned. In order to create and maintain a high level of security and security in the country, new collaborations need to be put in place. We want a review of how the police and the Armed Forces can cooperate better. We believe that the Home Guard in particular has a specific competence that could be used as a reinforcement of the police in extraordinary events. These may be traffic regulation, guarding and lockdowns. These are events, which, although the number of police officers increases, mean that the number of police officers is not sufficient at the individual time. Of course, such an extended and changed responsibility for the Home Guard would be carefully worked out before implementation. We see that the need to be able to temporarily extend the police's ability to make major efforts will not diminish in the future, rather the other way round. This would provide considerable opportunities for rapid and effective intervention in the event of crises of various kinds in society. The regional staffs would have completely different opportunities for broad intervention in various types of crisis through such an expanded task for the Home Guard. It would provide a better whole for the police but also for the Home Guard as protector of our security. Through the Home Guard, the defense could become a clearer sender as an amplifier of civil defence. In order to be able to find more easily the human resources available, civilian defence personnel also need to be able to be war-placed. Before such implementation, it is necessary to take stock of what functions in society really need to exist in a war placement. A broad review is needed here. How can we expect society to function in the event of a war or crisis unless certain tasks are performed? This can range from health care and schools to on-call electricians. For the military defence to work, all the women and men to serve need to be freed from work and care responsibilities. Children, old and everyone's pets are still there, even if the person has been drafted. The ordinary civilian life must work even then. Madam President, I would like The voluntary organisations play a crucial role in society, on the one hand, in their own activities and in the skills of their members and, on the other hand, as a recruitment base for both the Home Guard and the other parts of the defence. The defence has not been able to recruit enough staff, and so the government now wants to reactivate military service, which cannot be a clear enough indicator that the ability to recruit and retain personnel needs to be strengthened. There is a need for more women and more men in the defense. It is and has historically been a strength for Sweden to have the voluntary defence organisations as a support function for military defence and as a pillar of civil defence. They are needed now more than ever in order to restore the robustness of our civil defence. With their help, we need to build public competence and awareness of how to act in the event of a crisis or war. Madam President, I would like The value of being mentally prepared and that the general public knows how to deal with emerging situations cannot be valued enough. Furthermore, all support that can be obtained to educate the Swedish people is needed to resist the psychological threat via social media in terms of disinformation. A morally motivated and critically reviewing population is not self-evident, but it is a huge force if it exists. Nothing can replace a well-trained, organised and motivated public.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-843	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of Amendment No 1, which I will touch on a little. The Swedish Democrats have both 2015/ 16 and 2016/ 17 exercised about moving the state aircraft to Arlanda. You've said no to that for various reasons. Today, however, the Commander-in-Chief has asked us to make a decision precisely about moving the state aircraft to Arlanda. You will press the button when we vote on the motion next week. Why are you rejecting it again? Why are you doing this? It doesn't make any sense! Last year the guard cost about 10 million. The barracks aren't fit for business. You're in the airport now. The Swedish Armed Forces pay rent and security costs. Millions are rolling, and you're not doing anything about it. You do not even support a proposal to move this to Arlanda. Now they build a big tent for the plane there, a hangar. Go up there and look at that! There's the staff. Come on, let's go, let's go! Then I have a comment on the environmental tests. It is very important that this comes up. We know that the environmental tests are being tested. It happens in several steps, at least three. There we can remove one step. We will come back to the committee with proposals on this. This is tried from headquarters, and this view is shared. We have mentioned it in committee. I do not think we need to disagree on this. It does, of course, require an investigation. It must be handled by those who are really well-informed, which I am not sufficiently aware of. But the signal is that one of these environmental tests can be reduced and the cases speeded up. As it says in the newspapers and as we all know, the ÖB has said that he needs 6 1⁄2 billion more in the official and open parts. I am sure the Liberals will share our view on this, because you are investing. Two parties are investing in defence, namely the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. We believe, of course, that this debate should be superfluous. Of course they should have the money. That is our attitude. We have budgeted for it before Christmas, and that money is in our budget. Here you go! Then we will have a new budget debate in the autumn. It is important to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces, and this is done, among other things, through a strong civil defence. We are investing 4 billion more than you are doing in this budget period until 2020. We had this up in the last debate, and I will not touch it more than that. But if you think that this is really important, it is incomprehensible that you do not invest in it. I'm going to spend a little more time with the civilian defense. Then Mikael Jansson will talk a little more about the military part, Madam President. The goal of the civil defence is to protect the civilian population, ensure the most important social functions and contribute to the Swedish Armed Forces' capability in armed attacks or wars in our surrounding world. So there are three things we summarise. Civil defence has now, in principle, been dismantled. One can say that the warning systems remain in the essential parts. When the alarm goes off, of course, there are deficiencies in shelters and other things. But, basically, the warning systems are still in place. We want to take back a civil defense with a civil defence authority and cross over MSB. There is a lot of expertise there that can be used in the new authority, which should have a completely new focus. It should not go around and collaborate, but it should coordinate the activities, just as the county boards coordinate activities between municipalities. So what do we want to do? Now I think the Social Democrats are worthy of some praise here too. A food strategy has been developed. It's worth the credit. I've read it over and over again, and it's a very good step to bet on this. It is a food strategy that holds. That's good work, I think. Similarly, a committee has put forward proposals for a coherent rural policy. Good job! When you look a little more closely at this, I think you should go back and look. You, in the opinion of the Swedish Democrats, lack links with the overall defence model in this committee and with the proposals that lie ahead. I think you miss those parts. But on the other hand, you can say that the investigation will in future come to that conclusion. It assumes, however, that you are aware of these things and work with them. Maybe you are. You have every opportunity to acquire that knowledge. What do we want with the civil defence? We want a lot of it. However, we must build an organisation with a civil defence authority in a completely different way from that of the county administrative boards. As I have said, we are allocating a great deal of money to the voluntary organisations. We are investing a lot in FRA and FOI, but I will talk about civil defence. We are talking about such things as rural health care, Madam President. One example of something that we will put forward is ambulatory health care. This would mean considerable savings for people living in rural areas, not least for those who are a little older. Then you may not have to go to a health centre 50 miles away for a simple visit. I think you should consider it. We'll come back with proposals like this later. That is an example. We believe that proposals should be put forward immediately to reduce fuel costs within the framework of total defence. Keep the countryside! All of Sweden will live! Lower fuel costs! Lower employers' fees! There is a little bit about that in your proposals. There you have to think about, so that you do it step by step, depending on how far out in rural areas people live. I think you mentioned the Norwegian model. That's good. You can also regulate VAT. Within the framework of total defence, you can also provide support for rural activities. What has happened, of course, is that very much arable land has become forest land. There you have to put forward a strategy for what you can take back and what is reasonable. What is to be done with livelihoods in crisis and war? We've changed this. It's not that simple. What is the most important thing to make it work in rural areas? Yes, it's diesel. There are studies that say that if diesel distribution in rural areas is halved, it will not be able to deliver enough food. On the other hand, it is a very strange way of counting when you say that we have a level of self-sufficiency of only around 45%, which it sometimes says to read. Then you take everything we buy food for and share with what we export for. But very much of the food we bring here we can be rid of. It is candy, chocolate and a lot of other useless things that have nothing to do with survival. I think perhaps that figure is unfairly low in the debate at times. It is also the case that seeds are missing. We have to take a pretty deep grip on all this if it's going to work. I could go on all night, but even if you wish me to speak longer, I will conclude here, Madam President.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-860	Madam President, I would like Roger Richtoff party The Swedish Democrats have often explained that it believes that people should be helped on the ground. When Swedish forces participate in military operations, it is to help protect the population and contribute to stability and security for the entire population. According to research, the UN has recognised that women and children are particularly vulnerable. That is also why the UN has adopted several resolutions on the need to include women in peace processes and on how sexual violence is used systematically as a weapon in conflict. To ensure women's security in conflict areas and that soldiers have the right information to provide the right protection and support, knowledge and tools are needed. This knowledge and tools are provided by the Gender Centre, which both conducts pre-operation training for the Swedish forces and specifically trains senior military officers and managers. In your motion you explain that you feel that the competence at the Swedish Armed Forces Gender Centre is not needed. Prior to a service abroad, months of preparation are carried out. This applies from being able to handle the material in question to understanding the area of conflict in which the operation is carried out. Through the Gender Centre, soldiers are given the tools and knowledge to fulfil their task. History shows that without knowledge, tools and strategies, women and children continue to be extremely vulnerable. To clarify, Roger Richtoff : The competence to ensure the safety of women and children in particular is thus a competence that you Swedish democrats do not consider necessary. Why do you not think it is important to give priority to women's safety?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-865	Madam President, I would like I, too, have been in UN service. I've been protecting women and children. I've been to refugee camps. There are many ways to help women and vulnerable children, in a way that you have probably never been practically close to having done. The idea of just setting up a center goes a little wrong. We think there were other solutions to that. There are other ways to solve trainings that were done quite well in the past. They had a lot of briefings. This applies in both Saudi Arabia, the Middle East and Angola. There you go over the situation on the spot. They also trained the regiment before we went on missions. That's what they did. I'm not so convinced of the center you're creating. Who's gonna sit there? What instructions, orders, and directives do they have to solve their task better than before? Can I have an answer to that question?
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-868	Madam President, I would like Fortunately, it has been very positive when it comes to women's safety only in the last 17 years. The Swedish Democrats want to close down the centre that is the world leader in teaching tools to ensure, among other things, the safety of women and children in conflict. It is the centre that trains not only Swedish soldiers and officers but also soldiers and officers from all over the world. It is the centre that has been given the main responsibility for gender issues in NATO. What Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats also seem to have missed is that all the in-depth intervention-specific gender training is currently conducted by the Gender Centre. It is a requirement that the UN, NATO and the EU impose on the personnel we send. The training is thus not offered by anyone other than the centre that you want to dismantle, because their skills are not needed. If you also read your draft budget, you will see that at the same time you are proposing a reduction in aid of SEK 11 billion in 2018 – 2020. When the Swedish Democrats say that they want to help on the ground, it actually means that you want to close down most of the activities that Sweden is doing to create security, stability, security and development. We Social Democrats are actively working to improve the living conditions of women and children. We think it is important that the Swedish Armed Forces have that competence in their work. We have focused our foreign policy and Swedish aid in particular on strengthening the position of women and children. Given that you both want to abolish that competence within the Swedish Armed Forces and cut so heavily on aid, it is not possible to understand in any other way than that the Swedish Democrats are a party that actively opposes the safety of children and women.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-873	Madam President, I would like Where do I start? I'm gonna have to start like this. As far as aid is concerned, we spend far more than you do on active aid. We've heard that news before. We have explained it in many different ways, but it does not help. Nor do I think it will help now that I explain how we take from one to put it where it is really needed. I do not think it goes into your hands in the short time available to me. I don't think so. As far as the Centre is concerned, a centre is being set up. There's expertise. It's downtown. I know what you're saying now. We believe that there are better arrangements to better ensure that this competence is obtained in foreign service than this is. I understand you don't think so, but we think so. I believe that we could nevertheless be within the framework of the reception of the UN. We have a policy for this, even if it does not fit Alexandra Völker. It doesn't matter that much. I'll be happy to come back with the budget papers. I don't have them here now. No wonder I didn't bring them tonight. But I will be happy to do so, and then we can have that debate again.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-877	Madam President, I would like In recent years there has been increased uncertainty in the world around us. A weakened Europe with an aggressive neighbour in the East and a superpower with an incompetent leadership in the West is making for risks on the international stage. Our first response to such risks must, of course, be foreign policy. It is about preventing conflicts through dialogue and cooperation. But in the end the defense is also there as a final insurance if foreign policy would fail but also as a deterrent tool if a potential opponent would consider choosing the sword over the pen. There is broad agreement in the Riksdag to strengthen the Swedish defence's operational capability. Five of Parliament's parties are today behind the settlement that forms the basis of the defence policy. Based on the defence policy orientation proposal, we have, among other things, resumed the planning of civil defence, strengthened the custody of Gotland and invested in the base plate. Today, the government has announced that it has made a decision to reactivate military service in order to meet the defence's needs for human resources. As far as possible, the provision of personnel shall be based on the individual's interest, motivation and willingness. It is in the interests of both the Armed Forces and the individual. Madam President, I would like This is not a debate on the defence policy proposal. However, it is important to be aware of the broad range of measures taken by the government, together with several other parties, when studying the report we are discussing. The measures taken on the basis of the defence policy orientation proposal are well anchored with both authorities and parties. Together they create a whole that is larger than the sum of the parts. In contrast, we are now discussing a range of proposals – from the move of air bases to the storage of weapons – which have not been anchored or examined in the same way and should therefore be sceptical. Defence policy is an area of thought. I can spontaneously feel that some claims aim to solve problems that can be resolved within the current framework. The committee has, among other things, adopted a position in favour of a motion proposing a review of the detention facility's access to shooting fields and training areas in a deteriorating security policy situation. The Tofta shooting field is mentioned as an example. At the same time, the Swedish Armed Forces have not submitted any request for this. Questions about shooting fields and the like are complex issues where a number of interests have to be weighed against each other – the environment, the local population and national interests must all be taken into account. That is why it is important to have a proper trial. In doing so, I am in favour of reservations 10 and 17 and, in addition, of the committee's proposals in the report.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-886	Madam President, I would like I have a motion under the heading ‘Military issues' which concerns the de facto termination of the host country agreement and the clarification of the role of military music. As far as one of the motions is concerned, a unanimous committee proposes that it be approved, and I thank you very much for that. I don't know if it's okay with the parliamentary order, but if it were, I'd like to prioritise the host country issue even though I appreciate military music very much. But it may not be possible to do so, and if it is not possible, I will nevertheless express my gratitude, and also the appreciation of many military musicians and their grateful audience, for the committee's positive view of my motion. The Committee on Defence believes that the government should make it clear to the Armed Forces that the task of defence music, in addition to participating in state ceremonies, is also to participate nationally and internationally in uniting shows and concerts for civil society. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag requires the government to clarify the breadth of the defence music mission for the Swedish Armed Forces. That's great. Thank you. Now perhaps a friend of order thinks in the excited security discussion we sometimes think because there is far too much bet on such a thing as military music. We can't beat the lead fi with a trumpet, can we? We can't dunk sense in him with a drumstick. But this historic music tradition today has only three professional corps in Sweden. Little Norway's 4.7 million inhabitants have five corps plus a conscription orchestra. Denmark, with 5.5 million inhabitants, has three orchestras and a conscript orchestra, and Finland's 5.5 million inhabitants are happy to have six orchestras at the same time and in agreement to sue up Pori's parade march or something else. So Sweden will be able to protect our three full-time musicians: Stockholm, Kungsängen and Karlskrona. That is why I am grateful for the treatment. This will be our music from now on! But, as some TV shows say, now to something completely different. Sweden, Madam President, has signed a host country agreement with NATO which represents further steps towards full membership. I am strongly critical of the agreement, which was signed in September 2014. I believe that more and more joint exercises on Swedish soil and an adaptation to NATO standards are driving Sweden into increased dependence on NATO. I believe that this damages the credibility of our freedom of alliance, and I believe that the NATO-led exercises taking place on Swedish soil, in and on Swedish airspace and territorial waters should cease and NATO should not be allowed to practice within Sweden's borders. Basta! I request the approval of reservation 6. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention that the government should set targets and interim targets in order to reach the target of 40% of peace-keeping participants being women within six years. I thank Alexandra Völker for giving her support in principle, and I hope that perhaps there will be a step further next time. As has been said, it was positive that the Swedish Armed Forces announced today that they should now set a little more goals and milestones and start working actively on the issue. It was about time. It is important that this is followed up – the number and proportion of women employed in the Swedish Armed Forces but also in international efforts. Unfortunately, workers from different countries under the UN flag have repeatedly abused their position of power by exploiting women and girls and also boys sexually. In addition to the direct consequences for the affected children and women, the purpose of the international presence is directly countered. By contributing in this way to organised crime, which is often what controls prostitution and trafficking in human beings, one maintains the instability that one is there to combat. It maintains the violence that it is there to combat. That is why we need to move on with this. We believe that freedom of communication must also apply to the employees of the Swedish Armed Forces who point out abuses in terms of sexual violence, whether they work in Sweden or internationally. The government should ensure, in contact with the relevant authorities, that there is available information and the necessary procedures to enable reporting on sexual violence, sexual harassment or similar maladministration for employees of the Swedish Armed Forces – regardless of the workplace.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-893	Madam President, I would like We are debating a report entitled ‘Military issues'. The President-in-Office has referred to the decision taken by the government today to reactivate military service. It is a very good decision; it is to be commended to the government for that. But that is also absolutely necessary. The system we have now had with the voluntary recruitment of part-time soldiers has not worked. I had the parliamentary investigation service look at this some time ago, and it turned out that it would take until the 2040s to catch up if the Armed Forces were to keep up with the current pace. In recent years, the number of part-time soldiers has only increased by 200 per year. Madam President, I would like When building a defense, it is of the utmost importance that you have men, materials and exercises. That is why it is important to get to grips with this in today's decision. What is missing, however, is the part that was included in the investigation, namely incentives and rewards. It is partly about getting people to complete basic education and partly about getting the staff to stay in the future. I shall now turn to the report itself. There is an important link when we are now building a defence of Sweden again. I mentioned earlier the importance of exercises. It's of the utmost importance. If you're going to have any effect from a defense force, you have to have exercises. That is why the committee has now taken an initiative and points out the importance of the government speeding up the treatment of environmental tests. There are far too many dossiers that have been far too long. It is not only the fault of this government, it is also the fault of the former. But in this situation of security policy, which is now tougher, it wants the government to act. Take Tofta's shooting field as an example! We all know in this House the strategic importance of Gotland. We know that the Swedish Armed Forces have historically owned a large part of Gotland with important strategic areas. Today it has shrunk, and of the field you have left, we can only use one half. We must not use it to the full, because the other half must not be used. It's been a long history of appeals. Here it is important that the Swedish Armed Forces are granted permission, especially now that we are building a stronger capability. Then it is of the utmost importance that you can practice. Then it's about the defense music. It is an important detail, and it is something that has a proud history: For 300 years the Marine Music Corps has gilded life and played an important role. It has been threatened several times. I would like to mention one name in particular: Peter Stolpestad, as many of us in this House know. He plays himself, and he has been the leader in highlighting the good arguments that exist to keep the Navy Music Corps. Now the government has decided on this, and the Secretary of Defense has said that it will remain in office for his time. There is an important motion. It is not always an opportunity to give credit to Member Stig Henriksson, but this is a good exercise. I myself have exercised in a similar way in the past, and we are now in favour of the motion. Its aim is to ensure that the music corps has at least 300 more years of life to find ways to finance this. One way is, as the exercise involves, that the Marine Music Corps should not only be included in state ceremonial contexts but also play for general audiences. That could help with the funding. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about a motion which I have been involved in writing and which concerns civil society and the voluntary organisations linked to the Armed Forces. They are important and have an important role, not least in building civil defence, which has been closed down for a long time. Here these NGOs have an important role, and here there are more ways in which we can develop cooperation in order to make it more functional. I support the Christian Democratic motion in paragraph 13, reservation 20.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-901	Madam President, I would like This is a comprehensive report with many important headings. There are, as those who have spoken here before, three important announcements dealing with the activities of the Music Corps, training and shooting fields and civil and military cooperation. These are issues that affect the military activities as a whole, but it is also important to reflect on where we stand on these issues in both the short and the long term. Given this week and how much has happened and happened in the field of military and defence policy, we can see that there are many issues on the agenda at the same time. I also think it is important to look at it in a holistic way and try to bring together the different national objectives that are shaped in each policy area in order to move towards overall defence planning in the future that also permeates other policy areas. We have heard here in the debate how important it is to link this with food issues, and I am the first to emphasise the importance of in a situation where we have a vulnerability and where total defence planning requires increased primary production in Sweden in order to also reduce vulnerability. It also requires a new approach to many issues in order to reduce vulnerability and increase our operational common overall defence capabilities. When the Commander-in-Chief presented the financial conditions for 2018, we were able to see both how the economic erosion effect affects the defence policy and military work with displacement effects and the advancement of various investments and how it will risk increasing the operational risk after 2020. These are issues that we need to continue to discuss in the long term, and we do so together, but we also need to do so in the short term from a military policy perspective. It is about both resources and decisions. One can be satisfied with the current process of applying environmental permits and other things to shooting fields. But of course it should be possible to do faster. Although the number of cases on the table has been reduced, important matters remain to be decided, and we expect the government to take this very seriously. It is also about how the government will address the resource issue in the near future and how this affects the practical conditions both for exercise activities as well as for preparedness issues and materials within the Swedish Armed Forces. The government has taken a decision today on staff supply – as we have heard in the debate – and activated military service. The starting point for the Center Party is that human resources should be provided on a voluntary basis and that it in turn provides a motivated and committed staff. If we do not achieve the objectives and objectives of the training work on what we need, which we have seen that we do not, then we must add duty. It is about many different perspectives in the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base, and it affects the issues included in today's report on the military issues. It will affect the speed at which the different decisions are implemented linked to the orientation decision and also how it will be implemented in practice activities, and it is also about investment work. The commander-in-chief and the Armed Forces state that, since the last defense decision was taken, uncertainty has increased. Defence expenditure is widely discussed in other countries in our neighbourhood. Several countries announce increases in their expenditure. The NATO countries are increasing their ambitions to reach 2% of GDP. When the deployment of military forces and increased military activity takes place in our absolute vicinity and we see an increased risk of military incidents and confrontation, it is our task to take the necessary decisions in this year's work to strengthen military capabilities in the near future. The situation in our area is described as deteriorating. Five factors that affect this are mentioned. It describes a reduced threshold for the use of military force. It describes an ongoing increase in Russian military capabilities. It describes increased military activity in the Baltic Sea region. It describes that Sweden's neighbourhood has gained increased military strategic importance. It is also described that there is increased uncertainty in the Western world. Then there are many perspectives on grey-zone and non-linear warfare to go into. We will come back to that, but the point is that if the main focus of the various parts of today's report is not on implementation, we risk losing time. It is about the way in which other authorities deal with processes, and it is also about the will to act forcefully. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that it is important that we invest in the breadth and that we also ensure that this is a properly allocated priority area within military activities. We need to monitor both the investments in materials and the development of training activities and how we stand by our readiness.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-916	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only apply for reservation 1. Nowadays, all parties are in favour of having an invasion defense and training of conscripts. The majority of the parties want to increase the defence budget. Since we are all now serious about rearmament, we must also be consistent and create the conditions for a substantial increase in military capabilities. That rise in power must refer to all the branches of defense. It must concern both military and civil defence. The renovation requires that the peace adaptation of the Swedish defence ceases. With every adjustment of the defense, we should now ask ourselves: Does this work in war? Only the war-enabled defense has a threshold effect and works for peace and our freedom. This report raises some aspects of this kind. We do not agree with the government that wants two brigades in total for the defense of the ground. The SD wants eight Army Brigades and three Amphibious Brigades. Regardless of the number of brigades, it is important that we train in brigade format. The final exercises for this year's conscript graduates, as well as the refresher training courses, should be in Brigadier format. Practicing requires training areas and infrastructure. It is a national security interest that we can reclaim training areas as well as infrastructure and put them into use at the pace required by the renovation. Environmental assessments are important, but they must not delay development. An invasion defense requires the ability to move the units and also requires a strategic reserve. However, we cannot expect to be able to move our units as much as possible without any problems. An enemy can exploit if we're out of line. We'll be able to face an invasion no matter where it comes from. That's one reason why we think two army brigades are too few. Gotland is a particularly sensitive area. Anyone who controls an air base with anti-aircraft and holds coastal missiles controls the entire Baltic Sea. If we leave Gotland undefended, other states in a conflict in the Baltic Sea region will automatically be forced into a race to take and exploit Gotland. We should therefore equip Gotland considerably more. This applies both to air, sea and ground defence. There are sometimes worried voices that it is perhaps wrong to invest in military defence; because Europe has suffered many terrible acts of terror and Sweden has increased violence with firearms and hand grenades, the lack of police seems to be critical. However, the Swedish Democrats believe that the need for police and military should not be put against each other. Total defence is a backbone of society. After the madness in Ådalen, we are very careful to use military force in civilian crisis situations. We should continue to be careful about this. After all, the police have a legal education that the military rarely have to the same extent. With this knowledge, however, we must realise that the military resource must be able to be used in the event of terrorism or serious riots. In order for it to work, it is important that the police own and lead the joint operations. In such a situation, the military may constitute the rear support and maintenance. In the case of large-scale terrorist attacks, the military is given a more prominent role. Madam President, I would like Although the defense involves large heavy vehicles and explosions etc., the finesse of administration and control is equally important. It is known that the defence computer system Prio is tough and takes up a lot of time for the defence employees. Prio is made up of a modular program. There are parallel cases where this particular programme has proved to be slow. If Prio has to be replaced, it's best to get to it right away. Only recognized expert people can judge whether it should be done. And if a new tailor-made system is to be created, it is important that it is recognised that competent consultants are engaged in the procurement process. The defence cannot afford yet another non-optimal system, if you change.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-929	Madam President, I would like Not surprisingly for many in this House, I will dwell primarily on defence music. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Stig Henriksson of the Left Party for his motion on the basis of which this announcement is actually based. The question of the existence or non-being of defence music has been raised back and forth in the course of time. This is particularly true of the Marine Music Corps, which has its headquarters in my hometown of Karlskrona. And the question has stretched across party boundaries and different parts of society. Madam President, I would like I belong to the generation that, like many in this House, may remember Technical magazine with Erik Bergsten. In the vignette there were a number of gears that went into each other. Some of the gears were a bit oval, but they still fit in the context and made the machinery spin around. I would like you to have the image of such an oval gear in the entire Swedish Armed Forces machinery in your head. Stig Henriksson spoke earlier about how such a weapon could be used. There was a time when the Navy Music Corps, in particular, was threatened by closure, when it was faced with staff categories or with various economic considerations. Well, it's just a carrying and important part of a machine. Music appeals. Music connects generations. Music refers to historical events. Music creates an understanding, an inner feeling and paints pictures in a way that we may not always be able to do in other contexts. Music also bridges and can n if nothing else be a good PR tool. I would like to say that defence music is one of the most important public relations tools of the Swedish Armed Forces – by actually showing and creating feelings and images of the important heritage that we have in the Swedish Armed Forces, historically and in the future, especially where the Swedish Armed Forces are not represented today. Defense music not only contributes to state ceremonies. In the draft announcement, which is based on Stig Henriksson's motion, we also say that we want you to look further at the mission that defence music actually has. I can take an example from my home field. The Marine Music Corps is the initiator of a well-known integration project at Sunnadal School, which is a very immigrant school. There, defence music, together with the Marine Museum, connects the entire community and creates an understanding of what you may not have come into contact with before – defence music. There are also a number of other projects with preschools. I was talking about the oval gear. Many in defense music are professional musicians and not military. They may not always fit in with military planning. But they fit into our hearts and into the activities of defense music.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-938	Madam President, I would like I must admit that cosmetic tannings and age limits do not belong to my best branches. But it is a self-evident liberal starting point that what can be achieved through enlightenment and involvement of citizens in society is preferable to prohibition. Having said that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-940	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the FU9 report. The report deals with the Government proposal Age limit for cosmetic tannings. The Government proposes in the bill that there should be a prohibition in the Radiation Act on the professional use of sunbathing in a cosmetic solarium by a person under the age of 18. It is also proposed that the supervisory authority be given the possibility to carry out control purchases in order to verify compliance with the prohibition. Madam President, I would like The incidence of skin cancer has increased significantly in recent years. It is the second most common form of cancer and the form that increases most. Efforts are needed to reverse these developments, specific efforts aimed at the right groups and which are effective. Many find it nice to sunbathe and to become tan. Every year hundreds of thousands of Swedes travel on a sun vacation abroad. Unfortunately, however, there is a backside with the sun's strong rays. Our sun habits are probably the main reason why more and more people are suffering from skin cancer from sunbathing both outdoors and in solaria. The Swedish Cancer Society points to changes in sun habits as a reason for the increase in skin cancer. The introduction of an age limit to sunbathe in cosmetic tanning would affect a small part of the problem of overexposure to UV radiation. However, it would be difficult for unmanned solar arias to ensure compliance with an 18-year limit. The Government also states in its proposal that a statutory age limit would in reality mean a manning requirement for all solarians. However, there are measures that could be implemented which would be both relevant and effective and which would ultimately reduce the number of cancer cases and thus also bring a socio-economic benefit. Firstly, there is a need to review the way in which information is designed and provided in connection with solar activities. Many businesses have extensive advertising messages about the allegedly positive health effects of solar suntanning. Secondly, information to young people about the effects of over-sunning should be improved. Government and parliament should not point the finger at people and condemn different ways of life. It's just going wrong. Total bans and exhortations do not make people start to live healthier, but they want to do so themselves and want to change. In addition, parents raise their children properly. On the other hand, preschool, school, health care, research, the sports movement, culture, politics, associations and voluntary organisations and networks can participate in the debate and dialogue and increase the collective knowledge of how to combat cancer most effectively. In the end, however, the issue is that people must take responsibility for their own health. For children and young people under the age of 18, parents must take special responsibility. You can't make laws against all the risks in this life. The most important thing we as legislators can do is to ensure that there is clear information about different health risks and to make it clear that all types of ultraviolet rays in too large a dose are not good for anyone. In view of this, we believe that the proposal for a statutory limit of 18 years for cosmetic tanning should be rejected. Instead, increased information efforts should be used to improve solar behaviour both outdoors and indoors. Finally, Madam President, I would like to endorse our reservation 1.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-954	Madam President, I would like It is important that the public is informed about the risks involved in sunbathing solarium, as research shows that the risk of cancer increases with excessive exposure to UV radiation. At the same time, however, we must assess whether it is worth legislating on age limits in this case. If we have a law that only allows citizens over 18 years of age to sunbathe solarium, a lot of supplementary questions arise, according to our view. How should this be observed, and who should ensure that it is complied with? Should there be guards outside the solarium and check for ID? Who should supervise and how often? There is a risk that any decision on age limits will increase bureaucracy and costs, or that existing resources will be spent on this rather than on other supervisory activities. In this case, parents and individuals have a great responsibility of their own, as we see it. In a first step, therefore, information and clear warning signs should be used to encourage the public to become more restrictive in their solarium use. There may well be reasons for legislating on this in the distant future if it is required, but at the moment we see no reason to introduce an age limit. It's basically like resorting to a sledgehammer when you could first try a hammer. In our view, it is not sufficiently clear what the consequences are for the Solarians, and we think that we politicians should be careful to increase bureaucracy and costs for these activities once we know very well that there are other parts of society that need reinforcements. Small steps are better than big and ill-considered. And if everyone like me, we wouldn't have any problems, because then there wouldn't be any solaria at all in this country.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-961	Madam President, I would like I agree that it is important to work preventively with many information and other efforts to counteract the trend in skin cancer. It is about working towards groups but also broad in society and effective measures. We know that UV radiation from both outdoor and solar radiation is a cause of skin cancer. Today, there are relatively wide-ranging regulations governing the activities of the cosmetic solarium. There are also means of sanctioning those solarians who violate the regulations. The bill states that it is prohibited to give a cosmetic solarium to a person under the age of 18. At the same time, we see that no method of age control is indicated. A number of options are considered for how to technically solve this to gain control. There are also many different referrals to the proposal in the preparation. Several support the proposal that has now been put forward for a decision, while others question its impact and meaning. Some mention that the proposal is disproportionate and will not have the desired effect. One also wonders how it affects those in this part of the world who need more sun in certain seasons. We believe that introducing the age limit for sunbathing in cosmetic tanning would affect a small part of the problem of over-exposure to UV radiation. The category of unmanned solariums has limited possibilities to ensure compliance with an 18-year limit. In reality, it will be a challenge. We see that there are relevant and effective measures that could be implemented without introducing an age limit. It would also lead to better health and reduce the number of cancer cases. It's a lot about information and preventive conversational work linked to this business to highlight the consequences of over-sunning and exposure to too much UV radiation, especially in young years. We need a broad approach, a preventive approach that affects several activities in society. Basically, it is also about people taking responsibility for their own health and that parents have an important responsibility as guardians and responsible for children under the age of 18. For us as legislators, it is important to ensure that there is clear information about different health risks and to work preventively – but also to consider where to draw the line when legislation on age limits is necessary.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-974	Madam President, I would like As has already been said, we are now debating the FU9 Age Limit for Cosmetic Solaries. Solaria can be divided into cosmetic and medical. In a cosmetic solarium, the body is irradiated with UV radiation in order to make the skin darker, as when sunning outdoors. In medical solaria, certain diseases, such as psoriasis, can be treated with UV radiation in controlled quantities under the responsibility of doctors. According to information from the Swedish Radiation Safety Agency, there are approximately 1,700 solarium operations in Sweden that offer solar suntanning for cosmetic purposes. According to the proposal, the Government's proposal has been presented in the light of a proven relationship between exposure to UV radiation and risk of skin cancer. Skin cancer is the second most common form of cancer in Sweden and the one that increases clearly the most. Children are particularly vulnerable to exposure to UV radiation and the development of skin cancer because children have more sensitive skin than adults, and sun exposure and burns are therefore particularly harmful during children's and adolescents' years. For this reason, the government proposes that it be prohibited to allow a person who has not turned 18 years of age to sunbathe in a cosmetic solarium. This will ensure that the user has reached the age of 18. Madam President, I would like When it comes to information and self-control, the government proposes that the professional provider of a solarium should ensure that there is clear information about the age limit at the solarium site. Responsibility will be required for the activities to be checked under a specific self-monitoring programme and for the staff to have the necessary knowledge of the activities under the Radiation Act. With regard to control purchases as part of supervision, it shall be possible for the supervisory authority to carry out such purchases in order to ensure compliance with the age limit. Persons under the age of 18 may not be engaged to make control purchases. The supervisory authority may make a buy-in even if the operator has not been informed of the check in advance. The regulatory authority shall inform the operator after the verification purchases have been carried out. Madam President, I would like The bill states that in order to give operators and authorities sufficient time to prepare for the introduction of an age limit, the Government proposes that the legislative amendments enter into force on 1 September 2018. The committee welcomes the Government's proposal to introduce an age limit for cosmetic solariums in line with what the Radiation Safety Investigation concluded in 2011. This proposal should be seen as an important step in reducing the suffering and societal costs that skin cancer actually causes. The clear link between UV exposure and the development of skin cancer in children and adolescents unfortunately makes this measure necessary. The committee also notes that the legislation we are debating here today is in line with what many other countries in Europe have already introduced, including Finland, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Spain, Iceland, Lithuania and the United Kingdom. Madam President, I would like In view of this, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-985	Madam President, I would like I had a nice little speech written, but allow me, now that we are so few left and no one is able to respond to anything because people are too tired, speak a little more freely and perhaps ideologically. Peter Jeppsson gave such a routine and well-thought-out speech. I like children's rights. I think children should be allowed to vote from 16 years of age, and I get a little tired when people think that IT initiatives need to be directed to children when it is 50 year olds who have the most problems online. Now that we have introduced military service, I am behind it, but I get a little tired when some try to use it as a training facility rather than solving the defence's personnel supply problems. But that said, there is sometimes reason to restrict the rights of certain groups of individuals; this may be such an opportunity. It is a question of children being particularly vulnerable to clean health risks. We have set an age limit for alcohol or tobacco, for example, and you can reason in the same way here. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-c79ba6bd391381ae-988	Madam President, I would like To supplement my colleague, Mr Jeff, who spoke before, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
