i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-9	Madam President, the Bureau and those who may have gone up a little earlier to watch this debate on television – good morning! I should like to inform you right now that I am going to exceed the allotted speaking time somewhat. Madam President, I would like The world economy is currently in a strong boom, and Sweden has had a strong economic cycle for several years. This means increasing tax revenue, which benefits the local government sector. Good results were reported for 2016, and nothing indicates that 2017 will be so much worse. The Swedish municipalities and county councils have now had a long series of years with good surpluses. The results for the local government sector as a whole have been positive since 2004. Even during the crisis years from 2009 onwards, the local government sector reported a combined surplus each year. This was due to the responsible policy of the Alliance, which made it possible to provide municipalities with large additional contributions during the crisis years in order to safeguard their welfare. The fact that the municipalities did not have to make temporary cuts during these years is a great joy today. At the same time, there is reason to recall that booming never lasts forever. It is in good times to equip the country and municipalities to become resistant to bad times. There is reason to be very concerned here. I will make five strikes on issues that I consider central to the future finances of the municipalities. Madam President, I would like Firstly, despite the boom in the economy, we have major imbalances in local government finances and growing dependence on state subsidies. One would think that the local government sector, in the midst of a strong boom, would account for far greater surpluses than in previous years. But that's not what it looks like. The conclusion is that municipalities simply use the increased tax revenues to expand activities and increase running costs. This in itself is a threat when the economic cycle turns downwards. This has resulted in the creation of a cost-mass that cannot then be covered with tax revenue and existing state subsidies. SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, reported in a report 2016 on the balance between tax revenue and expenditure for the local government sector during the reign of the Alliance, and that the local government sector also reported stable surpluses, even during the crisis years. In recent years, however, imbalances have increased. Without increased state subsidies, it would not be able to cope, even in today's boom. In the long run, you can never manage the finances of municipalities only by constantly increasing state subsidies. In addition, the state has major challenges in financing increased resources for police, defence, infrastructure and other key societal functions. There is limited scope for ever increasing state subsidies to municipalities. Instead, the basis for a strong municipal economy is that we get more companies and more jobs in the private sector. It is these tax funds that create all the resources for well-being and other municipal activities. The fact that the government is now pursuing a policy that does not take this issue seriously is therefore serious. There is also a need for a clearer focus on reducing the costs of benefit systems and better control of migration costs. There too, we lack the capacity to act on the part of the government. Madam President, I would like Secondly, today we have a demographic situation that will bring ever greater resource needs in the future. As both the proportion of young people and the proportion of older people increases in the future, while at the same time managing extensive migration, society's costs for welfare will increase. If we cannot manage it wisely, massive tax increases will be the only solution. That is not a good idea in a country that already has among the world's highest treasures. In addition, as we know, municipal taxes hit those with lower incomes extra hard. One way for municipalities to cope with rising costs is to give better priority. Is all other municipal activities more important than school and care, or can less important things be given priority? It is also a myth that the quality of welfare depends only on how much money you spend. An analysis of the newspaper Dagens Samhälle recently showed that the quality and satisfaction of care for the elderly and home care were completely unrelated to the cost level. It was at least as high a rating for the activities of the municipalities with the lowest cost as for those with the highest cost. There are also interesting analyses that show that if all municipalities were to perform as well in each area as the best do, large increases in welfare would be possible without tax increases. In addition, if an annual productivity growth rate of half a percentage point were to be achieved, it would actually be possible to finance the whole of future welfare without tax increases. However, a serious threat to efficiency and productivity growth is the threatening regulation of profits in welfare companies. It would directly discourage efficiency and innovation in welfare, reduce competition and, in the long term, increase taxes. Instead, we should actively promote, from the political point of view, the emergence of alternatives and diversity in welfare. It contributes to improved quality and resource use. Madam President, I would like Thirdly, we have only seen the beginning of the costs of the great reception of asylum. Some municipalities – particularly sparsely populated municipalities and mills – have been very positive about receiving many new arrivals to fill their empty houses and increase their population. Government grants cover the costs for two years. But now the unrest in many of these municipalities is growing as state subsidies stop and the municipalities themselves have to take over responsibility for their livelihoods while increasing costs in, for example, school and social services. What will happen to these municipalities if the new arrivals cannot support themselves? There was one reason why there were plenty of empty homes-- there were too few jobs to offer, why people moved from the resort. Now there is a challenge to deal with this situation. Madam President, I would like Fourthly, municipalities must be given greater freedom to set their own priorities. For a long time, SKL has warned of the risk of an increasing proportion of targeted state grants that cannot always be used effectively by municipalities. Despite the government's attitude to reduce the proportion of targeted state grants in favour of general state grants, they have instead increased. From a moderate point of view, we want to see a change in this. We also want the purpose of targeted state subsidies to be clearer. We believe that wise local politicians usually know best what you need to invest more in. The fact that the government is now increasing the share of general government subsidies somewhat is welcome, but that is not enough. Madam President, I would like Fifthly, the local government sector should be seriously concerned about how the state is acting in a boom. In practice, the state is the last guarantor of Swedish welfare if the municipalities fail to meet their commitments. But then the state must also collect in the barns during good times in order to be able to invest in bad. When we were seriously hit by the financial crisis in 2009, Sweden had a good starting point. We had lower unemployment than today, we had larger surpluses in public finances than today, and we had normal interest rates that made it possible to stimulate the economy by reducing interest rates. Today, everything looks completely different. We are in a worse position if the economic cycle turns downwards. The powerful incentives to the local government sector to which the Alliance had the resources are available do not exist in the same way today. Unemployment is higher, public finance surpluses are smaller and interest rates are already at record low levels. In addition, we have a large number of newcomers who need support until they hopefully enter the labour market. The Alliance piloted Sweden through the deepest global crisis since the 1930s. We did so in a way that brought respect and admiration to the outside world. We managed public finances, protected welfare and reduced public debt. Unemployment also remained within reasonably manageable levels, well below the EU average. Today's government, on the other hand, goes shrimp sandwich during a very strong global boom, but manages worse with jobs than the rest of the world. When the Alliance handed over government power, we were in 12th place in the EU on the list of lowest unemployment rates, and unemployment was as high as 2.3 percentage points below the EU average. Today, Sweden has slipped down to 15th place, and our unemployment is no longer much lower than the EU average. Other countries have simply exploited the positive effects of the boom more wisely than Sweden. The government gasses when the boom is strong. These are things that cause overheating. The boom is being sloppyed away by spending money on everything and everyone instead of tackling the major underlying societal problems. During the first mandate, the tax will also be increased by SEK 60 billion, of which 88 percent will hit jobs, growth and savings. The Moderates believe that instead of increasing subsidies and subsidies, the boom should be used to strengthen public finances and collect in the barns for the next recession. In addition, we should implement long-term reforms, including integration, the labour market and welfare. It is crucial for managing the finances of municipalities in the future. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me mention a completely different issue. Before the summer, the government announced that 195 million people would be paid back to municipalities where asylum seekers live, young people who turn 18 during the asylum process, or in some cases have their age written down. The idea is good – with the extra money they want to enable these young people to stay in the municipality and continue their schooling while waiting for the decision in their asylum matters. However, there are two serious problems with the grant. First, SKL points out that the distribution of the money is based on the municipality of formal residence, without taking into account where the youth actually lives. A large number of municipalities have unaccompanied young people located outside their own municipality, and this means that one municipality can be charged with costs while another municipality receives the grant. The government should listen to SKL who has instead asked for the money to be distributed according to which municipality actually has the costs. The second problem is that municipalities lack guidelines on how to handle the additional state contribution. In several municipalities, including my municipality of residence, Mark, both municipal lawyers and social welfare managers have questioned whether it is possible to use the grant for the specified purpose without prejudice to the municipal law's demands for equal treatment of municipal residents. A person seeking asylum at the age of 18 is referred to an asylum accommodation and receives daily allowance according to the rules for adults. For a person under the age of 18, completely different rules apply for housing, day care and day care. To give young people aged 18 and over the same conditions and benefits as they had previously, this means that some 18-year-olds receive completely different benefits and rights than other young people of the same age. Taking such collective decisions without individual redress is likely to violate several laws. The fact that the government has not given any guidelines to the municipalities how to act is irresponsible. The municipalities are now acting differently, and no one knows whether legal decisions are being made. This is something that the government should review. I support the committee's proposals and our reservations.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-41	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the motions contained therein to be rejected. The Scandinavian general welfare model as we know it is based on good income security when you are unemployed and on sick leave but also on welfare services such as education, health care and care. In Sweden, we have chosen to organise large parts of the close welfare – care for the elderly, comprehensive school and upper secondary school education, disability care, preschool and subsistence support – as a municipal responsibility. The welfare that people have contact with daily is the one that is carried out around our municipalities and county councils. The total expenditure of the local government sector amounted to 979 billion in 2016. It is almost as much as the entire state budget that covers about 1 000 billion. This shows how important the local government sector is in terms of both turnover and activity. The local government sector accounts for about one quarter of GDP, half of general government expenditure and one quarter of employment. The municipal sector's tax revenue considerably exceeds the single largest tax revenue in the central government budget. Of the central government's total budget, 185 billion are general and targeted state grants to municipalities and county councils. Overall, the local government sector has reported positive results over a longer period. In 2016, the sector reported strong results. The average total profit in 2006 – 2015 was SEK 16.4 billion per year, of which the local government groups accounted for SEK 16.1 billion. Almost all municipalities and almost all county councils reported positive results. Since 2014, municipally financed employment has increased by around 100,000 people. At the same time, we note that the local government sector as a whole is facing major challenges. The demographic trend with a growing population and more children and the elderly, who are groups where the need for welfare services is high, is obviously driving the costs in the sector. According to SKL's latest financial report, costs in the local government sector are expected to increase by SEK 47 billion more than revenues by 2020. This corresponds to a tax increase of SEK 2.10. The municipal tax base is not expected to increase tax revenues to the same extent as the local government sector's expenditure is growing. In order to counter municipal tax increases and welfare cuts, there will therefore be a need for government subsidies to the local government sector in the coming years. This is necessary to enable the local government sector to develop well-being on the basis of local conditions and needs and to be better able to meet the challenges it faces in the future. Madam President, I would like In this light, one can rightly agree with the committee's assessment that the SEK 10 billion that the Riksdag decided to contribute to the general state grants in autumn 2015 was a very important addition to the local government sector. A well-designed, jointly funded general welfare promotes good economic development while at the same time smoothing out living conditions and contributing to greater gender equality. General welfare is an absolutely central role in the Swedish model. A well-developed child and elderly care of good quality is central to women's living conditions. It is important to monitor the development of the sustainability of public finances and the development of the municipal sector, but also to conduct a policy that allows municipalities and county councils to carry out their mission to create well-being that is distributed according to needs. The state grants to municipalities and county councils are a large and important addition to Berit's care for the elderly and to be able to feel safe in the autumn of the year and for Pelle and Lisa to be able to cope with the school. Madam President, I would like Welfare in municipalities and county councils affects people's everyday lives concretely and directly. It creates security in old age, provides opportunities for life in youth and increases people's freedom and conditions for a rich and meaningful life. In a world that is constantly changing, strong and equal welfare plays a role in developing and daring to face the only thing we know for sure, that tomorrow is completely different from the day.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-55	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to clarify a little about our reservations: we are in favour of reservation No 1. We are in favour of other reservations, but for time-winning, we are not in favour of them. Ingela Nylund Watz says in her speech that she sees no opportunity for the municipalities to increase their tax revenue significantly in the future, but that instead they will need increased state subsidies to finance increased welfare costs. I think it is a defensive entry from a government party to note that tax revenue cannot be increased in the municipalities. Of course you can. It should be the government's primary task to pursue a policy that creates more businesses and more jobs in the private sector that can finance the public sector. But this seems to Ingela already given up, which concerns me very much. How does Ingela Nylund Watz imagine that the state will manage to constantly increase state subsidies to the municipalities while we know that we agree that we need to invest large extra money in the defence, police, infrastructure and so on? Where does Ingela Nylund Watz think that all this money will come from if the business cycle turns downwards?
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-59	Madam President, I would like I demand that the motion be rejected. When it comes to the long-term development of the local government sector, we know that overall it looks like there will be problems for municipalities in general to increase tax revenues significantly. There are certainly municipalities that will be able to do so, but on the other hand there are municipalities that will not be able to do this. The basic prerequisite for tax revenues to increase significantly in municipalities is that we get more people to work. Here we have a slightly different view of how it should be done. For my part, I believe in the substantial investment that the state is now making through the state budget in the form of a knowledge boost and easier ways to enter the labour market by bringing together different types of labour market policy measures into one that makes it easier for companies to get in touch with the Employment Service and match staff into their companies. We are expanding growth support and carrying out a wide range of efforts to get more people into work, and this is the basic prerequisite for municipalities to have an opportunity to finance the well-being that we know will need to be expanded. I and we do not believe in the path previously tried by the bourgeois government with large unfunded tax cuts which meant that, for the third time in a row, we in this government have had to clean up the state finances after a bourgeois government. We do not believe that reducing wages will make a significant contribution to ensuring that municipalities have a stronger and more solid basis. It is simply a matter of choice.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-63	Madam President, I would like It is always fun to hear the Social Democrats running their new mantra: that you have cleaned up the state finances after the Alliance. It's pure fraud that you're trying to drum into the Swedish people. What we did in the time of the Alliance was to protect public finances during the deepest crisis since the 1930s. Despite this, we lowered our national debt. I think we should get some credit for that. For the first year, I think it was, Magdalena Andersson often said that the Alliance had handled the finances very well. Then you have changed your feet a little bit, and now you are trying to spread a picture of us misbehaving public finances during the alliance period, which is a complete fraud. The entire economic corps both in Sweden and abroad has given Sweden tremendous praise for how we managed the financial crisis and how we managed the public finances. So don't try it any more; we're tired of hearing this now! I think that the discussion about more people at work and how to get there is the major political issue. We believe that strong companies and a reasonable tax burden create more jobs in the private sector, while Ingela Nylund Watz still believes that the old Social Democratic models from the past where the state is going to get into a lot of details and try to create artificial jobs are what will save tax revenues in our municipalities. I don't believe it for a moment. Above all, I do not believe that the state will have room for ever-increasing state subsidies, especially if the economic cycle turns downwards. Then we will have other things that we have to spend money on, especially in our transfer systems. Then there will be no money for the municipalities. Unless municipalities can build their own tax force by getting more people and more people to work, we will never be able to cope with welfare.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-67	Madam President, I would like We fully agree, Jan Ericson, that it is fundamental for the municipalities' financial conditions in the future that we get more people to work. However, in what way we are going to arrange this, we have completely different opinions about. I can agree with Magdalena Andersson that the former bourgeois government at the beginning of its leadership of Sweden made some good efforts to protect the Swedish economy in a recession. But then the krona-for-krona principle was released and began to implement large unfunded tax cuts that led to the third time out of three possible countries leaving a budget deficit of SEK 61 billion. We have now dealt with this. We've turned the state's finances around. We now have such a strong economy that we can both invest EUR 40 billion in public debt and implement reforms to strengthen welfare, job creation in the country, security and the police's ability to prosecute crimes by EUR 40 billion. That's how you build the country. That's how you invest for more jobs. It is not done through unfunded tax cuts and by creating a low-wage market in Sweden.
i-AEoYCeddZHVPUox3RvYCWs	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Affairs Committee's report 2017/ 18:SoU2 Some questions about the register of medicinal products. The report deals with the government's proposal with the same name and a follow-up motion. The proposal contains proposals that make it possible for the current register of medicines held by the National Board of Health and Welfare to be better used to monitor the effects of various medicines. The Government proposes in the bill that the Act on Recipice Registers be amended so that personal data in this register may be processed if it is necessary for registration and reporting to the National Board of Health and Welfare also in relation to tasks for monitoring, evaluation and quality assurance in the area of healthcare. The Government also proposes that the reason for prescribing should be reported to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's Register of Medicinal Products for registration and accounting. This is already registered by the E-Health Agency today, but according to the proposal in the bill, the reason for prescribing will in future also be covered by the Authority's duty to the National Board of Health and Welfare. The data contained in the Register of Medicinal Products, as well as the other health data registers at the National Board of Health and Welfare, have a very strong level of protection. At the same time, health data registers are of great value for medical research in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The proposal proposes that the drug registry should be used to monitor the effects of individual medicinal products, including side effects. The purpose of transmitting information on the cause of prescription is also to improve follow-up. Better monitoring of how a drug works and how cost-effective it is can be a very important step in the introduction of new and expensive medicines. The Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency would have greater and better opportunities to evaluate new medicines and to be able to monitor cost-effectiveness in the long term. It would bring great benefits for patients, for society and for the pharmaceutical industry. Madam President, I would like There is a need for faster and better knowledge of the effect of medicines in everyday life. Otherwise, there is a risk that patients will not have access to effective and good medicines. It can cause unnecessary suffering and loss of health benefits for society and, of course, high costs. The MPA would have increased opportunities to work for improved drug use and increased patient safety if you gain more and better knowledge of how medicines work and their side effects. The National Board of Health and Welfare, in turn, could benefit greatly from the knowledge of its mission in terms of monitoring and quality assurance of medicinal products, and a change under the proposal would mean a very welcome harmonisation of health data registers. Madam President, I would like Overall, the assessment is that the value of the proposed changes is of such great benefit to patients and society that they outweigh the breach of privacy. The protection in the National Board of Health's health data register, to be added, is also very strong. The amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Madam President, I would like Fortunately, there is a great deal of agreement in committee on the benefits of the government proposal. But with the support of the Swedish Democrats, the alliance parties have chosen to enforce an announcement that the government will pursue the work on a national comprehensive list of medicines. We Social Democrats agree with the opposition that it is of great importance to improve the safety of patients with regard to medicinal products and that work on developing a national comprehensive list of medicinal products should proceed. However, while a national comprehensive list of medicinal products has nothing to do with the proposal for a change in the Register of Medicinal Products, it is in our opinion to open wide doors to push through a declaration of this when it is known that work is under way in the Government Office for the establishment of a comprehensive list of medicinal products. One legislative referral is to wait before the end of the year, and it is based on the departmental spromemoria that was published in December last year and whose consultation period ended in April this year. The E-Health Agency has been tasked with conducting a preliminary study on the very complex technical conditions that will enable a comprehensive list of medicinal products, and a number of projects under the national pharmaceutical strategy are under way that support a future national list of medicinal products in various ways. The proposal for a state budget that is on Parliament's table also announces funds for development work in developing a national list of medicines. Madam President, I would like The sum total is therefore an announcement not necessary in this context. I support the committee's proposal on the government proposal and our reservation on the committee's proposal for a national list of medicinal products.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-85	Madam President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working long-term and purposefully for a better Sweden. The budget that has just been drawn up contains a large number of initiatives that I believe make even the most doubtful now realise that this government is very good for most citizens. Madam President, I would like Over the years, medicines have become increasingly potent and can thus be constantly better and more effective in helping patients with their problems. Sometimes representatives of the pharmaceutical industry even talk about completely individualised medicines adapted to the particular patient. It has become so amazing with the development of drugs. Knowledge about how patients use medicines and how they react to them is becoming increasingly important for this development to continue. When it does not work to collect that knowledge, one can be struck by the fact that developments sometimes run away from legislation very quickly. The committee's and SoU2's report states that some of the information that could be retrieved from the pharmaceutical register and used for follow-up before 2005 was stopped when the register was converted into a health data register. This meant, according to the report, that the data in the register could no longer be used for monitoring, evaluation and quality assurance purposes. The motive at the time was that the individual's personal integrity was in danger. In fact, it is only 12 years since such a change of law was justified in that way. Today, when we live in the shadow of other major register scandals at the risk that national security data might have come into the wrong hands, one might think that argument was not so bad. But today the demands are different. The role of the National Board of Health and Welfare has changed with an increased focus on evaluation, follow-up and quality assurance and on monitoring how different activities work. This has changed the need for evidence and knowledge acquisition. The data recorded on the purchase of a prescription medicine in the Register of Medicinal Products today are the individual's gender, age, place of registration and personal identity number. It also notes who prescribed the medicine. What is now added to this proposal is that the reason for the prescription should also be noted, which of course makes it easier for the follow-up to try to identify, among other things, whether medicinal products are used as intended when they were approved. It is essential that they are used for what they are intended for. For this to work, an amendment to the law on the register of prescriptions is required so that the information contained there can be transferred to the National Board of Health and Welfare's Register of Medicinal Products. This is not currently considered to pose any significant risks to privacy. That assessment is therefore being made today. Madam President, I would like I support that part of the report. But then, as the previous speaker pointed out, chapter two comes. The committee also deals with a follow-up motion to the bill with a requirement for the government to complete the work on a comprehensive list of medicines. As the previous speaker said, it does not really have any connection with this proposal, this proposal. The work is in full swing, and a legislative referral is expected in the autumn. I would also like to point out that the government is at least as keen as the opposition that this work should be completed as soon as possible. Patient safety issues are highly prioritised by this government. Madam President, I would like Sometimes the idea has occurred to me that the opposition representatives in the various committees may have an internal contest about who can create the most announcements against the government without actually reflecting on why they do so. When you abuse the various instruments of Parliament, they actually lose value. Announcements are used mainly when the Riksdag believes that the Government should take hold of something that the Government does not work with. It is possible that announcements can also be used in cases where the Riksdag considers that the Government deliberately draws questions on a long bench and shows a lack of interest in actually bringing a question to a decision in the Chamber. However, in a case such as this, when one can see that the issue actually comes to the House in the near future, to propose to make an announcement is almost like a demonstration without substance. I can understand that the motion was written when it was written, but when the report reads that we have a legislative referral in the near future, I find it strange that the announcement is being carried out. I think it reduces Parliament's own role in the process. Madam President, I would like I request that the announcement be rejected and that the reservation be approved.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-99	Madam President, I would like We all want a national drug list. So far, we agree. If you look at the government budget, you can also see that there is a substantial bag of money for it. But we'll discuss that later. Is there any work going on? Is anything happening? It seems doubtful to the opposition, even though they have read that something is going on. And it certainly does. I'm going to do a quick rehearsal. It's a good thing we've been tough on this far. We in the Left Party naturally support the Government's proposal for a law amending the law on the register of recipes. We are calling for the proposal for a declaration to be rejected, one of many, which has been tabled by the united Right. The word 'announcement' has been used frequently during this term of office. It is a good thing that more and more Swedes understand the meaning of that word, but if announcements lead to something is a completely different matter. The Government's proposal means that the personal data in the prescription register may be processed if it is necessary for registration and accounting to the National Board of Health and Welfare, including for monitoring, evaluation and quality assurance in the area of healthcare, and that the reason for prescribing should be reported for the purpose of registering and reporting to the National Board of Health and Welfare. In addition, the task obligation of the E-Health Agency to the National Board of Health and Welfare shall also include information on the reason for prescribing. This is very good. The national list of medicinal products shall be a common source of comprehensive information on the patient's medicinal product treatment through a new personal register. It's really needed. And the overall goal of the register is to contribute to increased patient safety while protecting personal privacy from improper processing of personal data. They can leak out in different ways. It should therefore be secured. An important purpose of the register is to make it easier for professionals who will work on these issues in the healthcare sector – pharmacists and so on. Today, the data are available in slightly different places, and are divided into several different sources. The conditions for returning to these sources vary across the country, and it depends on which local or pharmacy you enter as a patient. It's kind of the wild west of it all. For example, it affects older people rather hard. It is therefore a good thing if this list can be drawn up. As the previous speaker has said, a national list of medicines would improve the conditions for monitoring the use of medicines. You can track and research in a different way. That's very good. The vision of the national pharmaceutical strategy is that the right drug use will benefit the patient but also society. There's two tracks in this. Four new activities have been selected and included in the 2017 Action Plan. These include drug use for children, self-care with a focus on over-the-counter medicines, improving opportunities for monitoring drug use in the field of cancer, and monitoring drug use for the elderly as well. There is therefore a lot of work going on in this area, in various places. And this work will come to an end. The starting point of the proposal is to improve patient safety and – never to be forgotten – to meet the patient's and healthcare professional's needs for information on a patient's drug treatment. When you enter, for example, a health centre today, the doctor is unable to trace what medicine you are using. It could end badly. The overall goal of a national list of medicines is to create a comprehensive picture of a patient's medication, regardless of where they live and who collects the medicine. I think we have come a long way on this. It becomes obvious when you look at the papers and see what's going on. A lot of work is under way at various authorities. According to information from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the ambition is to be able to decide on a legislative referral in 2017. The announcement, I think, is to break open doors. It is quite unnecessary, a sort of marking, a blow in the air. I support the proposal in the proposal and the S, V and MP reservations.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-112	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of the government's proposal to change the aims of the law on prescription registers. We support the proposal for a law amending the law on the Register of Recipes, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. However, we believe that this is insufficient. In order for the Government's proposals to work in practice, the Government should complete or at least complete the work on a national comprehensive and common list of medicinal products. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation. We have heard previous speakers, including AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, explain well what the change of law means. I will not repeat it, but will focus on the announcement to the government that work on developing a national list of medicines will be completed as soon as possible. The proposal for a declaration is contained in the report. I can inform Jan Lindholm from the Green Party and Karin Rågsjö from the Left Party of why we think it is important and prioritised that it comes into place. It's not a competition, it's very important that that list is in place. Madam President, I would like It is time for the minister responsible and the Ministry of Social Affairs to deliver a national list of medicines. There has been a solid effort, but unfortunately, material and referrals have led to it stopping and going around, around in the Social Affairs Department's tombola. In it, the government has lost sight of the target, which is a comprehensive picture of a patient's drug treatment. As I said, a comprehensive picture of the patient's drug treatment is needed, regardless of where the patient lives, has been prescribed or collected. Why is a national list of medicines important? Well, an inappropriate combination of drugs can lead to serious consequences for life and health. I'm afraid that's what's happening. Information on different drug treatments needs to be handled properly. A national list of medicines is needed to improve patient safety and to get an overview of drug use. A nationally coordinated list of medicines would also improve all professions working in healthcare – doctors, nurses – and in home care and care for the elderly. Currently, there is no possibility of a common picture of the patient's drug treatment. Madam President, I would like As has been said, the majority of the parliamentary social committee wants the government to complete its work on developing a national list of medicines as soon as possible. The government should also return with a bill to Parliament as soon as possible. The committee proposes that the Parliament should call on the government to do so in an announcement. However, the red-green parties and the government want to pull the brakes. They're happy with the tombol that's spinning around in the Department of Social Affairs. It doesn't make sense for this to take so long. In waiting times, the safety of patients is at risk. Healthcare employees are asking for a national list of medicines, not in a while, but now. The government should therefore urgently complete its work on developing one. It is true that the period of referral expired a while ago. It's been a few months. There is broad political agreement on the need for a national list of medicines, particularly for patients. Misuse of medicines is a common cause of patients being injured in the care. In addition to the human suffering suffered by the patient, misused drug use leads to significant social costs. Swedish healthcare is of high quality, but at the same time care is facing problems and many challenges. As I said, we Moderates want to strengthen the quality of Swedish healthcare. There must therefore be a high level of ambition with a focus on increased patient safety. A national list of medicines is needed to improve patient safety. That is why we cannot wait for this, Madam President.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-126	Madam President, I would like It is good that Jenny Petersson points out that we agree on how essential a national drug list is to ensure patient safety and increase it in many ways. But I do not quite understand why the opposition is putting forward this announcement and what more is desired. I wonder if they understand the complexity of this legislation. As we have mentioned before, a departmental spromemoria has been referred to, as is also stated in the report. The answers came in in April, and now the department is working on this. And as I said in my speech, other missions have also been put out to get the work going in different ways. The studies referred to in the exercise on which the announcement was based simply did not measure up, and this should be known. Several important consultation bodies pointed out that it was not possible to legislate in this way, because it would be contrary to both the constitution and an EU directive which is now a regulation. This chooses the opposition to ignore. Nor do I think that the opposition realises that the technical solutions are not available. What was in a previous investigation has been rejected by the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. The government has therefore started anew and commissioned the E-Health Agency to develop the conditions for technical solutions. Should we ignore constitutional provisions, EU regulations and technical complexity just to make a political point? As Jan Lindholm said earlier, you are in fact abusing Parliament's tools.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-131	Madam President, I would like I cannot agree with Anna-Lena Sörenson's claim that we should abuse Parliament's tools. On the contrary, it is extremely important for a national list of medicines to be put in place. Why are we doing this? Well, I explained it in my post: This is very important. This is about patient safety, which is why it should have been in place. As I said, I'm worried that this is going to spin around in the Social Security Department's tombola. Unfortunately, the work seems to have stopped. Now that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson refers to various referrals and other things, I am also very worried. Do we not agree on the need for a national list of medicines? I'm going to have to bounce the question back because I thought we agreed that it's important that it's in place. In the line it sounds like Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson wants to wait to get the national drug list in place.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-134	Madam President, I would like You hear what you want sometimes. I do not think at all that that is what I said, but I tried to explain why it became necessary to send out a new departmental spromemoria and why it was not possible to legislate directly on the basis of the investigations referred to by the opposition in the motion on which the announcement was based. This is the explanation. It just didn't measure up. It ignored the legislation contained in our constitution, from an EU regulation, which was previously a directive, and from the law on privacy. You just had to do this again. A new departmental spromemoria was written, and it has been out for a referral. Point. It is currently under discussion at the Department, and we can expect a legislative referral in December. What else does the opposition want? Nor is it possible to pretend that this is going to happen very quickly when the technical conditions are not at hand. Then let Jenny Petersson tell me if there is something I don't know about, and I guess the E-Health Agency also doesn't know how this can be solved with a quick fix.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-137	Madam President, I would like What do we want? I was wondering about that. The Swedish Parliament's Social Committee wants the Government to complete its work on developing a national list of medicines as soon as possible. The government should return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals on this. We want the work that is now spinning around in the Tombola of the Ministry of Social Affairs to end and to deliver legislative proposals on a national list of medicines. Why? Yes, for the sake of patient safety. We want an improvement in patient safety. That is why we in the Social Affairs Committee present this in the Swedish Parliament, and that is why we will vote on it in the Swedish Parliament.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-139	Madam President, I would like Now a new concept came up. Jenny Petersson spoke about the Tombola of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Well, that sounds pretty good. We absolutely agree that a national list of medicines is needed. This is supported by all parties. But just like Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, I'm a little curious about how to get this right. The proposal will come, of course. It is about very large registers to be brought together, and it is complex. Many actors are involved. Everything's gonna work. We need to have a legislative referral that's not being sent back. We in the Left Party are not in the government and could have jumped up and said that this is not our business. But if you look at what's going on properly, you can see that it's very much. It's going to be a drug list. Therefore, since you are making this announcement, I would like to know exactly what would have been done to make this pronto happen. One should know that it must be possible to guarantee that different things do not leak out. It's about people's integrity. What exactly would have been done if the material produced by the investigations were not up to date? What would have been done in the next step? Would you have made a proposal and played it out, even though many have said that it does not work? Are we supposed to work like that? I didn't think so. In that case, let's talk about tombola.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-143	Madam President, I would like The Social Security Department's tombola is about many different proposals that have been spinning around during the years when the red-greens have been in government power. Unfortunately, as I said, no profit has come out. There has been no national list of medicines. Unfortunately, patients have to pay for this. A question was asked about what would have come out. Just as we write, a solid work has been done, and referrals have been received. It's been going on for a long time. A colleague will explain this later in the debate in a small round of antiquities about how it has been done, why the national list of medicines is so important and why it needs to be put in place. Why is this important? Well, we in the Alliance are very concerned about the goal of a comprehensive picture of the patient's drug treatment, no matter where the patient lives, is prescribed or collects his prescription. That is why, Madam President, we tabled this motion, which was then endorsed by a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs. The motion has now become an announcement. Why? Unfortunately, the cost to individuals and society of medicines can have major consequences. That is why we think the proposal is so important. We want it in place.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-147	Madam President, I would like No one opposes, Jenny Petersson, that a list of medicines should be drawn up. But you seem to suggest in your rhetoric that the government, with the Left Party at its side, does not think the proposal is so important. That is why you are making the announcement, that is, to discredit. That's how you work, if I'm gonna be honest and make a political analysis of how things work out. Such a gigantic reform as a common list of medicines, from all these registers and with all these actors, takes time to sit down and work with constitutions and so on. What exactly, which authority, would it have done to make the reform work faster? That's interesting. Your announcement is as thin as ice in May. It is interesting to see the announcements, statements of censure, whatever you are dealing with. I would like to know exactly what would have been done. What if you had written it, not just a few small lines, but instead four pages so that we had understood?
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-150	Madam President, I would like It may take some time," says Karin Rågsjö. It seems that Karin Rågsjö is very pleased with the slow work and tombolan at the Ministry of Social Affairs. There's the difference. We're not happy. That is why we wrote the motion, and that is why we are making the announcement of a national list of medicines.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-152	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is important that personal integrity is protected, especially when it comes to data on health, illness and care. However, we believe that it is important both on a personal level and from a societal perspective that a national list of medicines should be in place as soon as possible. The government's proposals on the table are good, and the content has already been explained. I, too, will focus on the issue of a national list of medicines. I'll keep it short so you don't get caught up in one of my cough attacks. Each drug prescription is documented on prescription. However, neither the prescriptions nor the prescriptions are co-ordinated between different caregivers. This means that when a doctor prescribes a prescription, he or she cannot see what other medicines the patient is using. There is no reporting system for the overall list of medicinal products. Today, unfortunately, too many people have been mismedicated. They may take too few tablets, too many tablets, or take tablets that should not be combined at all or that counteract each other if combined. That is why we believe that a national list of medicines should be established as soon as possible. I know the work is in progress, but people are suffering in the meantime. Work needs to be speeded up. Madam President, I would like I spoke last week to a man who had suffered these problems. He had had problems for many years. In the last few years, he had become dizzy. He fell, and an ambulance was called because his wife couldn't lift him up. He went several times to the hospital. They looked at him, but they couldn't find anything wrong. Now this has happened so many times that he has stopped calling for an ambulance but is still there until he gets help. Now the last time he had been lying from eight in the evening to four the day after, when relatives could come and help him. Only now has the man met a doctor who wants to see his total intake of drugs. The man has had problems for a long time with various diseases – the heart, bad back. The medication has been built on, and he thinks he needs all the medication. Such a procedure takes time and resources from an already heavily burdened health care. That is why we need to get the reform in place as soon as possible. Otherwise, I think that the proposal before us is very good. We seem to agree. Of course it is a very good question to raise and debate. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-160	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to support the proposal in the committee's report. It's about two things. Above all, it is a good bill. It is a good bill, not least because it was once again the Alliance Government that set up an investigation and made a proposal that we can make a decision today in Parliament. This has been the case during the term of office. As soon as there are sharp proposals in the Social Affairs Committee's review area, which actually improves the situation in Swedish health care, they stem from investigations and preparatory work from the time of the Alliance Government. It is good that the current government manages and finds out our good proposals, but the problem is that we are now in the final phase of this term of office and that very few proposals have come from this government where the government itself has been the author. I will not go through the details of the bill, but it is an important piece of the puzzle to be able to follow up how we use drugs in Sweden in terms of side effects and other things. It is an important piece of legislation that we are going to decide on this afternoon. Then comes the discussion on the list of medicines. We know that one of the main causes of many of the patient injuries that we see in the Swedish healthcare system is the mistreatment of medicines. There are many different reasons for this, but one of the important reasons is that a doctor today is not able to see what another doctor has prescribed for drugs. We have been told by the speaker that not least when an elderly patient goes to a new doctor at another health centre or at the hospital, that doctor does not have access to the full information on what the patient is on about medicines. This is what leads Dr.B. to prescribe a medicine that has the opposite effect to what Dr.A has prescribed. But it also has other serious consequences. Today, especially those who are trapped in a drug addiction have great opportunities to shop around among different doctors and get prescribed addictive drugs over and over again without any possibility of follow-up. Then there is the case of the patient who comes in unconsciously to the emergency department, and in the emergency department you stand hands-on and do not know which medicines the patient is on. It is extremely important to get the list of medicines. Then comes the big question: Is there really a need for an announcement from the Riksdag? Yeah, I mean it's necessary. This is not a new issue. There was a new Patient Data Act – 2007 or possibly 2008. Already then, work was started to try to produce what we today call a national list of medicines. Barbro Westerholm will later report that it was not even the starting shot. It's something you've been doing, not just a decade, but longer. Why is the Government Office unable to come forward with a bill? The Alliance government did not succeed, and we are not at all sure that this government will succeed. It is not because it is a technically complex problem, that it is a gigantic register or such things. This is because, in the case of a national list of medicines, there are two vital political interests against each other: on the one hand, integrity and, on the other, patient safety. This means that attempts to develop a national list of medicines have been repeatedly stuck in the Government Office. The Department of Social Affairs says that patient safety is the most important thing. The Justice Department says that privacy is the most important thing. So far, unfortunately, it has been those who advocate integrity who have won the battle. That is precisely why, Mr President, it is so important to get what we will hopefully get now: an announcement from the Swedish Parliament, which puts pressure on the Government Office, where we say that we in this House want this proposal in place. It is not that there is any malice at the Ministry of Social Affairs or that the Government is unable to produce this work. This is a conflict between two genuinely important interests. Then it is important, Mr President, that we today have a decision in which the Swedish Parliament says that now is the time, that the political pressure is strong for the Government Office in the balance between integrity and patient safety to say that patient safety – saving lives – is the most important thing. I support the committee's proposal.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-170	Mr President, I would like to Anders W Jonsson has many strengths. Modesty is not one of them. Most of the good things that have happened in this world apparently happened under the bourgeois government. I think there are different opinions about it. Anders W Jonsson described the consequences that we see from the fact that the prescribers do not have aggregated information. It may be added that the patient's involvement is disappointed when we do not have the opportunity to have a comprehensive list of medicines. That is where we agree; we agree that this should be done and that it is important and essential. Anders W Jonsson also says that this has been going on for decades. Again: During this golden age when the Center Party was in charge of Sweden, why didn't they do more? These investigations were set up, yes, they did, but they did not take sufficient account of the laws we have to deal with. Anders W Jonsson then takes on the task of criticising those laws when it comes to personal privacy. You can do that, but – correct me if I'm wrong – hasn't the Center Party also been involved in deciding in the Swedish Parliament on these particular laws? We are not talking about any laws; we are talking about constitutions, which we do not change with a parliamentary decision. We are talking about EU regulations, which are also difficult to change. If we break them, we will also be dragged to the European Court of Justice. Is that what the opposition is looking at? The question remains: What exactly does the opposition want the Swedish Parliament to give an announcement about, if so, when would we get it – which is already under way – and what exactly is to be done by the government that is not already done?
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-176	Mr President, I would like to AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson raises two quite interesting questions. The first is whether or not I'm of the modest kind. What I said was that, of all the sharp legislative proposals that we in the Social Affairs Committee had to deal with from 2014 to today, most of them come from investigations set up during the time of the Alliance Government. Of course we think this is a good thing, but what concerns me is that it has now been almost a full term of office and we have not had a single sharp bill coming from the fact that the government has agreed to set up an investigation to process this. Health care is facing huge challenges, but it is completely empty on sharp initiatives. Then it is a good thing that the Alliance Government was active in bringing forward legislative proposals so that we have had something to do in the Social Affairs Committee. But we would have needed more sharp proposals from the government. You can call it modesty or not, but it was a productive time. We can objectively see this by looking at the proposals we have. Where do they really come from? The second question is why an announcement is needed and what exactly we want the Riksdag to do. I say – as I said in the speaker's chair – that this has been a complicated issue, precisely because it is two vital political interests that stand against each other. The Alliance government developed the proposal for the Patient Data Act, which was decided in 2007 and started in 2008. Already there were thoughts about this. But then it went down in our years, and there have actually been problems even now. We know that the Government Office has had great concerns, and it is about two important interests that stand against each other. The reason we want an announcement is to put political pressure. I had hoped we could do that together.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-181	Mr President, I would like to That we have continuity across different governments and through the decades in terms of health care and patient safety, we should welcome and think is a good thing. That is the case – in most questions we have the same values and think about the same thing. It's more about how this is to be done and a little bit in the margin that we stand here and struggle. I therefore find it remarkable that an announcement is being made when it is known that this proposal is practically on the table of the government. There will be a legislative referral in December. What else do you want? Does Anders W Jonsson really think that one should ignore constitutions, that one should ignore what EU regulations say, just put them on the shelf and somehow trivialize and simplify something that is very complex? Anders W Jonsson does not mention the technical complexity at all. The Swedish Municipalities and Landsting have rejected the node on which it was intended to build the technical system and started from the beginning, because that node had created huge problems in terms of legislation. Perhaps together we can influence our comrades in municipalities and county councils and speed up the work needed for the local government sector and the county council sector to do their work on this.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-185	Mr President, I would like to It will then be strange that the Social Democrats and the left-wing parties cannot support this proposal for an announcement. An announcement is nothing more than that Parliament says that here we want a bill as soon as possible. If it is the case that a bill is delivered at Parliament's table in December, the announcement is satisfied. The reason we think the announcement is important is that we know from our time in the Government Office that this process is not simple. That's because the Ministry of Justice will do what you can to find privacy reasons for this not to be presented while the Ministry of Social Affairs will push for patient safety. It would then be a support for the Social Democrats at the Ministry of Social Affairs if Parliament were to say: This is so important that we must have a legislative proposal here. Hopefully we will now get that through an announcement, but it would have been much stronger if we could have agreed on it in a situation where we actually agree on the substance that we want this and have it as fast as it ever goes. As I said, if the bill comes in December or January – no one would be more happy than I – the announcement is satisfied, and then it is no problem. I think it is important for Parliament to make demands of the government on certain questions and say: This is an important question for us. Here we must have a bill as soon as possible. That is why we will be voting in favour of an announcement.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-189	Mr President, I would like to In order not to repeat everything that has been said in favour of drug registers and a national ordination database or whatever we are going to call it, I was going to go on the antique tour. We started setting up drug side effects records in the mid-60s, after the Neurosedyn disaster. Each year, the World Health Organization arranged meetings with those responsible for these records. In 1969, we met at a restaurant in Geneva and discussed whether we had all the data we needed. We agreed that only the notification of side effects was not enough; we also need to have information on the use of medicines. I went home and I said, "We need an individual-based drug registry." I tried to get to one in Stockholm. It was no. On the other hand, it became one in Jämtland for 17 000 people, one seventh of the population there. Why did there become a register there? Well, there was a chemoabdoctor, P-A Hedman, who wanted a computer system for his samples from kemlabb and needed to fill it with more information. Then he came up with the idea that maybe we should set up a drug register, and this was done in 1970. It was lucky that it came in 1970, because it was before the computer legislation. If we hadn't started then but later it would have been no for privacy reasons – privacy, privacy, privacy! It turned out that this register solved many problems, as little as it was, so it survived the data legislation. No one dared to put it down because of the valuable information about drug use and misuse that it provided, and about how to solve a lot of issues about side effects. This went so well that from Apoteket AB, the National Board of Health and Welfare's Medical Department and Klin Farm Lab in Huddinge courted Ingegerd Troedsson, who was then Minister for Health: A national register was needed. She was really positive. But the Medical Association clearly made the thumb down — integrity. No, we can't have such a record. Then the question died. Then it was dead in the 80s, because then George Orwell came with his book on big brother and computer records. What we had to do then was to save the health records we already had: the malformation register, the drug adverse event register, the cancer register and so on. They were under threat of closure in the 1980s. During that time it was seen that the doctors had no idea what drugs a patient is on. A lot of small computer cards were developed to carry and keep their medicines registered on. None of this worked, so in the 1990s we realised that we had to awaken the idea of drug registers and individual-based prescription registration. We uploaded, and we had a major activity scheduled for September 11, 2001. Then in the morning we were interviewed by newspapers, television – all sorts of things. At 3:00 a.m., I was sitting with a radio journalist. We both knew: this will not be broadcast. As a result, the issue of individual-based drug registers died for a while. Talk about unexpected obstacles! Then there was a drug investigation, and then the pensioner and patient organizations had woken up. Here, workaholics sit with politicians and talk about integrity, when it is our security that is at stake! The pressure was then put on: We need an individual-based drug register to analyse the use and side effects, but also to have an overview of which medicines have been prescribed. It is our health and safety that is at stake, and here you are talking about integrity, as if it outweighed the risks to which we are exposed. So then, in 2005, we got a register. Then it would start to be used. Then the law broke down – integrity again. Many good studies have been carried out using the pharmaceutical register we have today. But it is not fully used in all the alarm situations where it could be used. Internationally, one sees it as a Mecca for such studies. Actually, we've come this far. We're united here! Patient safety is important, and records are important. The only thing we disagree about is whether or not there's going to be an announcement. I wonder what the public is really thinking here. But you see, it has been 48 years since the thought of such a register came. It's taken quite a long time. I am so impatient that I am 100% behind this announcement to prevent new, unexpected stopping blocks from blocking the register.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-201	Mr President, I would like to It will be difficult to top such an exposé as we received from Barbro Westerholm regarding the need for a national list of medicines; that is to say. What Barbro was discussing was the many attempts that have been made in the past. I myself have exercised about, among other things, a digital health card, or such a card as the members of the Swedish Motorcycle Association have had in their helmet. You should be able to write up your medicines and treatments so that, if an accident or something else happens and you cannot speak for yourself, you can get the right medicine. A number of events mean that at least I personally have felt that this is incredible for a long time. We are one of the world's best countries when it comes to patient record keeping. If I count correctly, the National Board of Health and Welfare has 112 quality records on its list. It's not bad. On the contrary, it is one of the world's best data collections for patients in healthcare. I would just like to mention something I have said in other contexts as well. I was invited by The Economist to London last winter; it was heart care. There, other lecturers spoke about Sweden as a pioneer country when it comes to the importance of being able to follow care and treatment over time in different ways, through this type of record keeping. This is something that you and I can suffer as patients: not being able to speak for yourself in the event of an accident or severe illness. Then it is important that the doctor you come to knows what medicine you should have. It is enough to be severely allergic to get into a situation where you get the wrong medicine. This can have severe consequences. The list of medicines, I think, is in a way a slightly misleading name. There has been a fear among those who have not read the whole report and received signals that we politicians want some sort of classic list, like that of literature – that we want a list of what is approved and not for certain diseases. But that is not what this is all about. It is about us as patients being able to get the right care and treatment. It is important to note, as is also done in the National List of Medicinal Products for the Department, that a coherent record keeping will remain an important complement to gathering information on a patient's prescribed medication. We cannot get away from the fact that a list like this really, if we are to be really honest, is incredibly necessary and has been so for many years. But we cannot remove the fact that we have 21 county councils. It is said that there are hundreds of computer systems only in Stockholm County Council. Then we can figure out how many computer systems there are in 21 different county councils in Sweden, with different journal entries. This is not right. It is not safe, and it does not contribute to equal care for Swedish patients. I would also like to point out, as a Christian Democrat, that I am concerned about the fact that the regional inquiry is now so dead and almost buried that the issue of better regionalisation of government-run healthcare cannot even be discussed. I am of the opinion that we could have done much more, much faster for Swedish patients if we had not had 21 different county councils. In the meantime, however, we should somehow revive this investigation or, in any case, improve health care in this regard. I would like to point out that the Christian Democrats support the committee's proposal for a decision and look forward to an urgent examination of the issue within the Government Office.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-210	Mr President, I would like to The bill that we are debating today proposes, among other things, clearer legal support for the possibilities for the Political Authority and the Security Service to use coercive measures in the enforcement of expulsion decisions. It is proposed that the police should be able to return enforcement cases to the Migration Agency, that the Police Authority should be responsible for the re-enforcement of expulsion or expulsion decisions and the handling authority regarding detention in these situations, and that the Police Authority should have the same conditions as the Migration Agency to take children into custody. As the Ombudsman has also stated, there is a need to clarify the legal framework for police powers. The measures covered by the proposal are characterised by coercive elements, which is precisely why clear and clear regulation is needed. Forced intervention may only take place in legally secure and predictable forms, and there must be clear legal support for such intervention. First of all, I'm going to focus on the children's perspective. The best interests of children should always be taken into account and guide decisions concerning children. Under Article 37(b) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, no child shall be arbitrarily deprived of his or her freedom. The detention of a child may only take place in absolute distance as a last resort and for the shortest appropriate time. It cannot be justified solely by the fact that the child is unaccompanied or has been separated from his or her parents, or by the child's migration status, residence or lack thereof. The Left Party therefore feels that the reasons given by the government to justify the state's right to take children into custody are extremely doubtful. The proposal justifies the fact that children can be better prepared for enforcement in this way. To be honest, it is quite incomprehensible how lock-in could better prepare a child for expulsion. We know that the lock-in of children, even in a shorter period of time, has a very negative effect on the child's mental health. Over the past year, the government has implemented a number of legislative changes, both in the right to assistance and housing for those with expulsion decisions and in a hand-hold provision for the Migration Agency to be able to ask the police to move people out of the accommodation. At the same time, the other opposition has competed in proposing measures to increase the number of expulsion decisions. The choice between following an expulsion decision and not doing so is the choice between returning to the place you have fled from and staying in the place you have fled to. Even in the absence of grounds for asylum, people flee places of terrible and difficult conditions. To think that the suspension of aid or coercive measures would help to get people to want to return is, at best, naive, at worst cynical. Instead, the government and parliament should base their decisions on what we actually know works – not on signal politics about harder action. For there are other and better methods of increasing return. The focus should be on effective return, while maintaining legal certainty and human dignity, and not on repressive measures. I say this because we know what works. We can listen to the Swedish Red Cross's long-standing work on return. Their experience shows that it is positive incentives that increase the willingness to return on a voluntary basis. These may include, for example, the granting of re-establishment support for more nationalities, needs-adjusted advice after rejection of asylum applications and for returnees, and targeted support measures for particularly vulnerable groups, such as violent women and persons with disabilities. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has identified a number of gaps in the protection of unaccompanied minors in general. The Committee notes that in many countries unaccompanied minors and children who have been separated from their parents are routinely refused entry or detained at the border by border guards or immigration officials. In other cases, they may be admitted but refused the possibility of seeking asylum, or their asylum applications are not handled in an age-appropriate and gender-sensitive manner. The Left Party, like the Children's Ombudsman, asks how children's right to seek asylum in the country can be ensured if the Police Authority is given the power to take children into custody already at external border control. The Left Party is very positive about the ongoing work to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. However, both the signing of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law are more than mere symbolic acts. Sweden has been repeatedly criticised on various points by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child for how we comply with, or rather do not comply with, the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Although the legislation is not in place yet, the government should pursue a policy that is already permeated by a strong child perspective and consideration of the child's best interests. In the past year, the government has instead pursued a policy which, on the contrary, restricts or restricts the human rights of children in a number of areas. It has been about the introduction of the new asylum rules, with, among other things, family fragmentation as a result, and that, despite strong criticism by UN agencies, children are still placed in custody and imposed restrictions which, in principle, involve isolation and lack of interpersonal contact. The proposal to increase the possibility of placing children in detention is thus another example in a series of things that go completely against the content and intentions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Left Party is therefore opposed to the introduction of another possibility for society to detain children. This world doesn't need any more locked up children. The reasons given are not sufficient to justify such far-reaching restrictions on children's rights. Although it is stated in the bill that the use of the possibility of placing children in custody should be applied restrictively, we share Save the Children's concern that there is a great risk that children will be taken into custody to an increased extent if the proposal is implemented. The Parliament should therefore decide that the provisions of the Aliens Act concerning the conditions for taking children into custody are not extended as proposed in the bill. The Left Party has no objection in substance to the proposal to clarify by law the conditions for the enforcement of expulsion decisions. However, it is very problematic that decisions on disposal are not prohibitive, since enforcement measures traditionally can and should in principle be subject to appeal. Decisions of this nature should be admissible in order for a judicial review to take place. In addition, when it comes to children, we are once again seeing the government's law clash with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is so often said to be a law. I read from Article 37(d) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child: ..................................................... This goes completely against what is being proposed. The possibility of appeal also plays a major role in the application of the proposed possibility of taking care of someone and in ensuring that this possibility is applied in a legally secure manner. Legal certainty should be our guiding principle. That is why we in the Left Party believe that the government must ensure that there is an opportunity to appeal against decisions on custody. The bill also proposes that the Police Authority and the Security Service should be able to take coercive measures to obtain the necessary documents for enforcement and investigate identity. This means, among other things, that the police are given the right to take care of a foreigner and, without consent, take them to their home Member State compound or other diplomatic mission. This possibility raises issues relating to both the adequacy balance and the ability to maintain the confidentiality of information such as disclosure may result in serious harm to the asylum seeker or to a close relative. As a general rule, confidential information may not be disclosed to a foreign authority. Given that for many people, such as LGBT persons or persons who have left China or other repressive dictatorships and sought asylum here, there may be an urgent danger if sensitive information is transferred to their home country or its representatives, careful consideration must be given before someone is forced to be brought to the embassy of their home country or equivalent. This is also highlighted by the Ombudsman in his referral. There are great difficulties in maintaining confidentiality in an interview situation where the police actually do not have control and in many cases do not understand the language. Unlike the Council of Law referral, the government has developed the reasoning on this problem in the bill. Nevertheless, such measures may be taken if they are deemed appropriate in the sense that they are effective. Here the Left Party believes that the government must make it clear that consideration should also be given to the possible risks the procedure may entail for the person in custody. This does not necessarily mean that we need to make changes to the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. However, the government must return to the Riksdag with a proposal that the suitability assessment should also take into account the risks that it may entail for the cared person to be forced to be taken to a country-based or diplomatic mission. In conclusion, I would like to say that the report we have on our table today lacks the necessary consideration for children's rights, for legal certainty of the possibility of appeal against detention and for risk assessment. As I said before, what the world needs is no more locked up children. With this, I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-230	Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes in the bill that the police should have clearer powers when decisions on expulsion are to be enforced. Those who have made their way to Sweden and who do not receive their application for a residence permit are obliged to leave the country on their own. It is expected that the person who has received a expulsion decision will respect this. It is of great importance for the enforcement work that the Police Authority is able to use coercive measures when necessary to carry out an enforcement action against those who do not voluntarily participate in it. It is an explicit provision that allows the Police Authority to take care of a foreigner if it is necessary for enforcement to be prepared or carried out. Such a system is similar to that in other areas where the Police Authority has a responsibility to carry out expulsion or expulsion. The Government's proposal clarifies the possibilities for the Political Authority and the Security Service to use coercive measures in the enforcement of expulsion decisions – and nothing else. An explicit right to custody means that the police officer responsible for carrying out the action is given the power to use force in the event of the intervention under the conditions laid down in the Police Act. A right to take care of the person to be rejected or expelled also means that there is a power to perform a body visa and to search for the person to be taken care of. The question of whether care is needed depends on the circumstances of the individual case. The starting point is that the disposal should be as short as possible while the time for disposal must be sufficiently long that the necessary measures can as a rule be carried out. In the vast majority of cases, a maximum time for disposal should be sufficient in 24 hours. It should be possible to extend the time to a maximum of 24 hours if there are special reasons. Care shall only be used in the form and extent necessary to achieve the intended result. Executing authorities must be given the opportunity to carry out effective enforcement work, including at least the possibility of obtaining travel documents and the possibility of investigating identity. These measures are only taken if they are adopted as effective, appropriate and necessary. The person applying for a residence permit here shall not be put at risk as a result of the work carried out. The committee shares the government's view that it is very important for the Police Authority to carefully consider what information about the foreigner can be given to the foreign authority in connection with the visit. In this context, it should be noted that those who consider themselves to be in need of protection from the home Member State authorities have either already been examined on the grounds invoked or may rely on grounds of protection which have not previously been examined. Mr President, I would like to It is not appropriate that the conditions for taking a child into custody depend on which authority has taken a decision that can be enforced immediately. Otherwise, the conditions for taking a child into custody should not change. The Government stresses that a starting point is that children should not be unnecessarily subjected to coercive measures and that the best interests of the child, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, should be taken into account in particular. It is therefore important that the provision should be applied with special restrictiveness in relation to children. In the first instance, other measures should be taken in the form of, for example, information and motivating calls. Where detention is nevertheless necessary, coercive measures shall be implemented with particular care and in a child-friendly manner, taking into account the situation and experience of the individual child. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the committee's proposal in the SfU5 to amend the Aliens Act and the Special Alien Control Act and to reject the Left Party's reservation.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-238	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Alliance, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the SfU report5. Sweden needs a long-term migration policy, and it must have its base in temporary residence permits and long-term supply requirements. In the wake of the large migration of refugees in 2015, in particular, the need for effective return has increased. For four years Sweden has received 300 000 asylum seekers. It is good and important that our country's legislation provides protection to people in need of protection. The other side of the coin, however, is that those who do not qualify for protection must leave the country. There must simply be a difference between a yes and a no. As not everyone who has been rejected responds to the call for voluntary return – they remain instead – the need for clear rules and powers for the authorities, in this case the police, who have the responsibility to act is made clear. It should also be supplemented by an extension of the time when one can have one's case examined, from four to ten years. Then the motivation to stay out of the way and not to leave the country is reduced. When such issues are debated, the argument that coercion and detention are inhumane is often raised. I think it is important to point out that legislation is clear that voluntary return is the basis. It is when a person has refused to do so that the discussion of coercion and detention arises. Over the next five years, from 2017 to 2021, 50,000 people are expected to go underground. The alternative to leaving the country is to banish people to a shadow society where they risk being exploited by unscrupulous people. Women and men are at risk of working for slave wages, living in extreme overcrowding, being subjected to sexual exploitation, and more. For the children, the risks are even greater. It is in relation to this that coercive measures and detention should and should be discussed. I mean by emphasise that it is far more humane to have an effective and legally secure return regime for those who choose not to comply with the legislation on voluntary return than to banish them to a shadow society. Finally, however, I would like to point out that the legislation and its design are not the only thing that matters, but it must be complemented by the fact that the executive authorities are given the resources required by the mission. Here I am very critical of the government. The police are now in the midst of a major reorganisation, and the discontent is great. As a result, we are unable to fill all the training places and experienced police officers stop. Here it does not help to talk numbers and how many police officers we want – it has to be turned into meat and blood police, something that the current government has failed completely with. This failure is clearly mentioned in the statistics. In 2012, the number of internal checks on foreign nationals was 42,000. In 2016 it was 19,000. Between 2017 and 2021 it is estimated that 70 000 enforcement cases will be handed over to the police, and then you should know that the police carried out 3,700 cases in 2016. However, the proposed measures are at least a step in the right direction.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-248	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating a bill that provides clearer powers for the Police Authority and the Security Service when decisions on expulsion are enforced in the form of coercive measures. In general, the Swedish Democrats agree with the government's position that a person who has an enforceable decision on expulsion should be able to be taken care of in order for the execution to be prepared or carried out. As Mikael Cederbratt said earlier, it is important to make a distinction between a yes and a no and that we have a sustainable and legally secure migration policy. We therefore support the proposal, which represents a step in the right direction, but at the same time want to be very clear that we do not believe that the measures are sufficient and wish the government to extend these proposals. We are currently in an emergency, which is why this should have been in place a long time ago. For this reason, we have submitted a specific opinion which I would like to present here. The proposed time limit for disposal – 24 hours and if there are special reasons for an additional 24 hours – is too short and should be extended. We cannot achieve the purpose of care if the time is too short. We are also critical of the time limit proposed by the government for the placement of persons detained in prisons, detention centres or police arrests for transport technical reasons. It's too short. In order to have a real effect, it is not enough for three days, as is proposed, but we also think that this deadline should be extended. Mr President, I would like to We have recently seen various events that clearly indicate that the Police Authority and the Swedish Security Service need more opportunities to fulfil their mission to protect Swedish citizens and enforce Swedish law. There must be a clear dividing line between what is right and what is wrong. The decisions that are made must be implemented in order for our most important social functions to function. The Left Party has a reservation in this report, which mainly concerns the right of the State to take care of persons who are considered minors. It criticises this and refers to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but at the same time misses out on the fact that the UN does not oppose child care but rather talks about the importance of children being treated well and that there is a regular review all the time. All of this is, of course, self-evident. We have seen, not least in connection with the protests at Mint Square and Civic Square, how clear and increased powers could have made it easier for the police to enforce decisions taken and ensure that the current rules also apply. Those who are to protect us and maintain order should have the right tools for their mission, and they have not. The police have today lacked clear directives and tools to carry out their mission, as the police have also been clear during the summer. Unfortunately, the Left Party's reservation clearly shows that they have not listened to the police. Furthermore, the Left Party has raised the issue of appeal. Here, too, I can see that the real aim seems to be to create more bureaucracy, as all or almost all those who are taken care of will appeal. How this should be done is therefore also unclear, as care is taken over a very short period of time. With such a proposal, the bureaucracy will exacerbate already existing problems within the Migration Agency, which is the last thing we need. With this, I would like to call for approval of the proposal but also to make it clear that we have a strong hope that it will be further developed in accordance with the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats.
i-d0baa2ecfbd63f98-258	Honourable Members of Parliament! Last Friday, the sad news reached us that Börje Vestlund died in the suites of a cardiac arrest. Our thoughts and warm condolences go to Börje's family, friends and colleagues. Börje Vestlund was born in 1960. He was elected to Parliament in 2002 as a member of the Social Democrats in the constituency of Stockholm. He has been a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the EU Council. Börje has also been an alternate member of the Social Security Committee, the Transport Committee, the Tax Committee, the Civil Committee and the Finance Committee, as well as the Board of Governors of the Riksbank's Jubilee Fund and the Parliament's Board of Appeal. Börje Vestlund was also a trade unionist and has worked as an ombudsman at the Hotel and Restaurant Union. He was active in municipal politics, including as a member of the Stockholm City Council, Vice Chairman of the Street and Property Board and Chairman of the City Council of Kista. But Börje's commitment did not stop there. He was a solid peoples' movement man with many different assignments, not least as chairman of the Swedish Epilepsy Association and board member of ABF's federal board. Often Börje had the task as treasurer. All of us who are active in associations know that the treasurer must be both trustworthy and loyal. Börje was all this, but he was also a colorful politician who took place. He was seen and heard. He was both noticed and moved, wherever he came. No one could miss Börje Vestlund or the values he stood for. I see him walking forward in his shawl, and I also remember his great heart and his sense of humor. But Börje was not without a sting, quite the opposite. He could sometimes be very harsh against political opponents as well as – let me emphasise – political friends. He didn't tailor the words, but he always did it with heart and warmth. Börje was also, of course, a well-known and combatable representative of LGBT issues, including as a member of the Board of the LGBT Social Democrats and as chairman of the Parliament's LGBT network. In RFSL, he was just a federal secretary. He was a role model and a champion, both in his person and as a politician. And he was in style and strength. When Börje would manifest his views on a country's antigay laws during a visit to its parliament, he did not of course content himself with a small discreet button on the jacket team. No, he was wearing a really big rainbow shawl. Börje Vestlund was neither silent nor timid. He had a lot to say, and he did so with a message. The speaker's chair was a natural arena for Börje. In fact, one might say that it was a place he was happy to visit. Börje's political commitment was great. That commitment would take new forms after the next election, it was intended – an election where he would not run for Parliament. I believe that many of you in this Chamber can understand that such a decision is not made without agony and many thoughts. But Börje was satisfied with his decision and felt good about it. He would do his last year as a Member of Parliament but without working for a new nomination. He had planned to continue his commitment by running for other assignments, but he would also take care of himself and the dog Sigge. It was time for a new phase in life. That's the plan. But now the end of his time in the Swedish Parliament came very quickly. He was snatched from us in the middle of his work. Börje left us in the middle of the step, with the shawl over the shoulder. He left us as he lived, with both grace and drama. A warm, passionate and colorful person has passed away prematurely. Börje Vestlund leaves behind a large vacuum as a human being and as a politician. We are now honouring his memory with a minute's silence.
